it is clear that restructuring is necessary, it is necessary in order to increase productivity, to promote technological innovation, but always on the assumption that jobs are maintained. but today, throughout europe, the numerous restructuring processes already mentioned have one main objective: redundancy. and these redundancies are mainly due to two things: either the relentless pursuit of profit, or the lack of liquidity in companies due to recessionary policies promoted by the european union and national governments, which cause consumption to contract. this means that redundancies are not inevitable, but rather the result of concrete policies adopted and implemented by concrete politicians, and which in this parliament are expressed by a majority. to assume that restructuring is acceptable in the abstract concept of economic change is to assume that there is no alternative and that redundancies are inevitable, even if minimised. there are many alternatives to layoffs, and today's workers know this better than ever.
we're starting the year with dramatically higher unemployment levels. my country, portugal, has the third highest rate of youth unemployment in the european union and is experiencing a wave of emigration of a similar size to the great exodus of the 1960s. the big difference is that this vacancy mainly affects young graduates with no job prospects. recent graduates are looking for a career outlet outside my country. this is clearly contributing to the worsening of the already fragile economic situation. in the european union, the costs of young people not joining the labour market amount to €150 billion a year, according to eurofound. in this context, we welcome the youth guarantee initiative. financial management is very important if the implementation of the youth guarantee is to be possible and successful. this requires the efficient use of the structural funds, together with very close cooperation between the social partners, national, local and regional authorities, as well as employment services and education and training institutions. the key is to help our young people transition from school to the world of work. we cannot allow them to remain in limbo, without prospects for the future. i would like to conclude by asking, commissioner, what recommendations the european commission is making to member states experiencing serious financial, economic and social difficulties in order to halt the loss of... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. it is essential to adopt a european youth guarantee and to improve on the practices of countries such as austria or luxembourg, which have designed and implemented programmes to support young people, taking advantage of their qualifications, employing young people in the business and social fabric, giving them the opportunity to continue their training, based on the needs and opportunities of the labour market, or supporting initiatives, from an organised network of partners in permanent dialogue. the effectiveness of existing schemes lies in close cooperation between the economic fabric, the national (sectoral) social partners, local and regional authorities, (public) employment services, local and regional education and training institutes and other stakeholders. in addition to the dramatic unemployment rates, young people suffer the stigma of being unemployed and we have almost an entire generation subject to dealing with strong emotional and psychological pressures as well. only the restoration of economic activity will create sustainable jobs, but in this area another level of policy guidance is required from the eu and the country to reverse this job-destroying trajectory where young people are most affected.
mr president, commissioner, it was fate that this debate took place today, the day on which, for the second time in a short space of time of only three years, portugal formally requested the european commission to mobilise the european union solidarity fund following the bad weather that struck the northern coast of madeira last november. my personal experience, having lived closely all the procedural steps of the activation of the solidarity fund during the storm that struck madeira on 20 february 2010, allows me to state two things with full confidence and knowledge of the facts: firstly, the incomprehensible incongruity, let us say, of the european union being able to immediately provide financial and material aid in the event of a natural disaster outside its borders but not being able to do so within its own borders. secondly, and only by showing that the specific case of madeira occurred on 20 february 2010, taking one year and two months after the events to deliver the requested aid is incompatible with the concept of urgent aid intended for the immediate needs of the affected populations. in the face of this, the institutions, we, the european parliament, the commission and especially the council, which has systematically blocked any progress in this area, have two options: either they radically reform the process of activating the fund or, by persisting in this line, they will turn solidarity into an empty word, which will always arrive late and hardly to those who need it.
the ors are excluded from crossborder cooperation and should not be. they are the external borders of the union, like the azores, which are situated in the north atlantic, halfway between europe and america. that is why it has close relations and deep ties with the united states, where there are now four times as many azoreans and their descendants as there are in the islands. access to the crossborder cooperation programme would be a key contribution to deepening existing relations and opening up new opportunities, not only because of the large community living there but also because of the potential of a country like the united states for the socioeconomic strengthening of the azores. this is all the more so at a time when the united states is making a huge reduction in the activity of its military base in the archipelago with very significant socioeconomic effects. crossborder cooperation would be a fair contribution which the european union could make and from which it could derive good benefits.
mr president, it is regrettable that we have chosen to include in a joint debate questions which would in themselves justify a separate debate. this must lead to a reduction in the importance of cohesion policy, just when all the attention and emphasis was justified on this subject. the failures of cohesion policy are now very evident, the chronic shortage of resources has been aggravated when new objectives have been added to the previously existing ones without the corresponding increase in resources. to insist on the idea that cohesion can be promoted without a very substantial increase in the funds available, and even more so in a context of deepening integration, is to propagandize a huge achievement, an achievement that has been denied from the outset by several studies by the european commission itself which in the 1990s said that at least a doubling of the european union budget was necessary to ensure the objective of cohesion. since then, there have been successive enlargements and the budget has been reduced and they want to reduce it even further by keeping it at poverty levels. the result, if they do, will inevitably be more divergence and more inequality.
the portuguese people ended another year of impositions of the troika and submission of the national government and that remained for the historical memory of 2012. unemployment rose 25.4%, earning the country an honorable place as the third highest unemployment rate in the oecd, the weight of wages in the economy recorded the biggest fall since 1984, wage levels reached levels of a decade ago, and important strategic lucrative sectors such as national airports were privatized. all this not only to pay for the public's doubt but the troika's loan plus its fabulous additional interest that will become progressively unpayable in a country that mortgages its economic growth. the public debt, the apparent reason for all these measures, has not decreased but has increased, reaching a further 120% of gdp. at the same time, the largest personal fortunes in portugal increased by 13%, and energy and telecommunications companies posted profits of over eur 1.240 billion. in order to end the year well for the big capital, the recapitalisation of another private bank was also agreed at eur 1.1 billion. workers have vehemently protested against the handing over of their earnings to big business, and the european union has finally lost its face.
during the reading of the report which the imf has dedicated to portugal, or i should say the report which the portuguese government has commissioned to the imf, there was a moment when my heart sank. paragraph 44 says the following: pensions in portugal are low, the elderly in portugal are those in europe most at risk of poverty, the imf considers that the portuguese state spends too much on pensions and ends by suggesting that there may be room for a reassessment of the rights of the elderly, without compromising the objectives of equity. this is extraordinary! this report makes at one point comments on the health systems or the education systems in portugal which are completely ignorant and which basically envisages proactive policies of underdevelopment, policies of backwardness for the country. a government worthy of the name would be telling the european commission that the imf is working in portugal against article 151 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and a responsible political opposition should be working to bring down this government.
the long and dark history of the imf and the world bank has not left the horn of africa unscathed. the intervention of these institutions in the 1980s led to the disruption of the local economic and social fabric, with profound and lasting consequences. production capacity in the primary sector, which guaranteed self-sufficiency in various products, livestock and agriculture, was destroyed. this reality and the external interventionism that underlies it and subsequently aggravated it are inseparable from the conditions that led to a civil war that continues to this day. the interventionism it has in the murders carried out by american drones, the so-called drones, is a macabre and intolerable expression. the hypocritical reference to security problems to justify further militarization of the region, while dismissing its own responsibility for destabilizing the situation and pushing millions of people into extreme poverty, is unacceptable and must be denounced. the problems of the region will not be solved by more meddling, militarization and war.
in the context of global changes in land use, climate and other factors, biological diversity is a key factor for ecosystem resilience. the diversity of crop plants in particular is crucial for food security and environmental reasons. the ethical, social and political implications of intellectual property rights in matters such as genetic resources are immense, and must be carefully assessed in all their extent. the earth's genetic resources are a common good, their preservation a shared responsibility. no country, no human being should be excluded from the benefits of scientific and technological developments which are based on the diversity of the earth's genetic resources. the exclusion resulting from the private appropriation of life in its various forms in areas such as food and health, denying food and medicine to millions of hungry and sick people is one of the most shocking demonstrations of the inhumanity of capitalism.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the work was carried out in very difficult economic and political circumstances and, given the size of the country, the fact that this is the first time that this function has been assumed and the internal difficulties of the country itself, particularly in economic terms, it is worthy of our collective appreciation and our public thanks to the presidency. this appreciation is all the more justified if we take account of the obvious difficulties revealed on several occasions by the council in responding in a timely, coherent and articulated manner to developments and the urgency of systematic and coherent responses. others will speak better than i do about the work done on schengen and asylum, the push on external trade, on european monetary policy and the success achieved in the european patent. in economic terms, and the economy has not yet left the centre of the agenda, and in legislative terms, i would like to underline the enormous effort made by the cypriot team. it was not possible to conclude on some of these dossiers, but the conclusion that will be reached will always be largely due to the cypriot presidency, i am referring to the capital increase, the capital requirements directive or crd4, where a lot of work has led to an almost complete conclusion of this important dossier. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank, which is a very important one, and whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank. on the success side, i would like to highlight what we are going to be discussing here today and which, during this plenary session, will lead us to a conclusion: the rating agencies. here too the council's position has not always been clear, but we have reached a point where we are making clear progress in defending, in particular, sovereign debt against speculators. finally, it was also during the cypriot presidency that fundamental changes began to take place in the agenda of the european union and in particular of the euro area. it is during the cypriot presidency that we have for the first time, after a long time and many requests from this parliament, encountered medium and longterm thinking on the future of monetary union. the reports of the four presidents plus one and the commission's initiative on the blueprint are clear steps in this direction. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that at the end of the cypriot presidency the european agenda is clearer, the future is clearer and that issues such as growth, employment, the social dimension and also the fight against fraud and tax evasion must gain strength, dimension and dynamism in the presidency that follows.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the definition of coherent urban policies should be a priority, since the majority of european citizens live in urban areas, a reality which all european union policies should take into account. on the other hand, it is important not to forget the cases of citizens of the european union residing in the outermost regions, where the urban/rural dimension, due to its geographical characteristics, goes hand in hand. the effectiveness of the most important policies of the european union therefore rests on well-prepared urban policies that include all urban dimensions. i would also like to stress the case of the islands, so that they can contribute more and more to the economic development of the union as a whole.
in writing. - more than two thirds of europe's population live in urban areas. it is in cities that problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty are concentrated in an amplified way. the effects of the economic crisis are most acute in urban areas. the urban expansion phase of the last decades has exposed a serious situation of urban and real estate degradation that has been manifested in the lack of urbanization works and essential services. the european institutions must therefore provide new impetus and instruments for thinking about the cities of the future. promoting urban redevelopment and regeneration is a major challenge. the social and economic revival of cities requires a rethinking of urban planning and spatial planning methodologies. the new cohesion policy programming should develop territorial governance actions that take the issue of social sustainability and urban transformation as a priority theme, which should provide growth instruments for the quality of life, valuing the identities, memory and history of the territories. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the measures proposed.
in writing. - more than two thirds of europe's population live in urban areas. it is estimated that by 2050, about 70 percent of the population will live in cities. this growth will cause a huge change in cities and in citizens' expectations of the quality of services such as health, transport, education, etc. in the light of the current economic climate, it is clear that funding under political cohesion is becoming increasingly important in europe's regions and that there is a growing need to ensure that money is spent more effectively so that citizens can benefit fully from european funding. the new programming of cohesion policy through this structural approach should develop territorial governance actions that take the issue of the social sustainability of urban transformation as a priority theme.
in writing. − the local development model is a strength of eu cohesion policy. given that 80% of europe's citizens live in urban areas, new incentives and instruments for thinking about the cities of the future need to be reviewed. it is in the urban fabric that realities such as unemployment, poverty and discrimination are most acute in these difficult times. the promotion of urban regeneration and regeneration (creating wealth and opportunities) is therefore one of the challenges to which the union must respond by promoting a genuine model of sustainable urban development. i therefore support this report in calling for special attention to complete and rehabilitate marginalised neighbourhoods, to functionally reconvert derelict sites, to mobilise cultural and economic resources, thus enabling the social inclusion and integration of marginalised groups. in this process of urban redevelopment, particular emphasis will be placed on the possibility of using the structural funds to develop an integrated approach to the problems of demographic development in cities, in particular the increasing ageing of the population. special attention should also be paid to environmental problems, such as the increase in green spaces, air quality and, in particular, the management of urban waste.
in writing. − with two thirds of europe's population living in urban areas, rebalancing the role and contribution of urban planning to economic growth in the union's current socioeconomic context is a key exercise for eu cohesion policy. and that is why i voted in favour of this report. while cities are the most affected by the economic crisis and by problems such as mobility, poverty, ageing and job creation, it is also in urban areas, which are more conducive to the development of synergies between science, technology, innovation, culture and entrepreneurship, that the key to the social and economic revival of cities is to be found. in this context, i would stress the importance that local development can and must play as a crucial element in the future of cohesion policy. the involvement of citizens and local authorities in urban regeneration and upgrading processes will not only lead to better policy options i.e. the most effective, coherent and cost-effective measures for each city , but also to the consolidation of european citizenship and the sharing of good practices across the eu. for example, in some cities in my country, citizens are already being asked to think about their city through the 'participatory budget' initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'the contribution of urban planning to economic growth in the context of eu cohesion policy', because, given that the majority of european citizens live in urban areas, it is necessary that cohesion policy and the european regional development fund also support coherent and innovative urban development policies.
in writing. - cities are the cradle of civilization as we know it. it was in these that most of the concepts and institutions that still endure and structure our societies were forged and developed. it is never too much to stress their importance and to lament the decline of some of them today, as a result of wrong urban policies and economic models. throughout europe, people are moving to the suburbs of large cities and leaving their centres, which are being occupied by offices and commercial activities, losing their characteristic vitality, threatening the survival of the communities that sustained them and populating them with buildings that often challenge traditional urban harmony and layout. the populations are atomized, the sense of neighbourhood and local community is lost. i welcome the reflection on the crucial importance of urban planning for economic growth in the context of cohesion policy and would like to see new ways of improving the quality of life of citizens and of renewing and enhancing the spaces in which they live, work and play promoted. we need to rethink our cities and give them back to people and communities.
in writing. - europe, in addition to the crisis it is going through, is experiencing a process of population loss only mitigated by immigration, which will, in the very near future, determine the sustainability of european social security systems. considering that europe, despite all the vicissitudes it has gone through, is still the best continent to live on, it is essential that we continue to focus on its excellence. in this field, urban planning plays a key role as a driver of economic development and job creation. there is much to be done in order to make and maintain attractive cities. to this end, a plan for the intelligent use of urban networks needs to be developed and implemented at european level. urban and social regeneration, the development of safety plans for architectural heritage and buildings - especially in regions prone to natural hazards such as earthquakes - and the creation of conditions for the settlement of the most disadvantaged sections of the population such as young people and women should be at the forefront of the application of community funds, in particular the cohesion fund and the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. − the local development model is a strength of cohesion policy. the development of plans for the protection and redevelopment of urban areas, the rehabilitation of marginalised neighbourhoods, the functional conversion of derelict sites to make them more attractive, while responding to the collective need for public space, green space, leisure and sport, the promotion of historical and cultural heritage, can make an indisputable contribution to economic growth and development in cities. this approach envisages an interconnection of the natural and environmental system with the cultural-historical and the productive partnership, also referring to the importance of developing access to public services, improving urban spaces and the growth of the economic fabric, residential works and infrastructure. the report is a positive one, despite some pointed differences, and without forgetting the need to integrate the requirements of local development into the problems of suburban, surrounding and rural areas, in order to promote a non-conflict relationship. the development of rural areas is inseparable from the problem of overcrowding of urban areas and the consequent abandonment and desertification of the rural world, with all the economic, social, cultural and historical implications that this phenomenon entails. the promotion of this development is therefore an unavoidable way of combating the problem of urban concentration.
in writing. − the lack of attention paid to urban areas is one of the main weaknesses that have prevented the lisbon strategy from fully achieving its objectives in terms of the homogenisation of regions and territories. the local development model is a strength of future cohesion policy, as it is able to mobilise decisive factors including the skills and motivations of local people and to encourage the selection of the best options and the most coherent, effective and cost-effective measures. democratic and civic involvement and participation in cohesion policy options can give greater visibility to community interventions, even in the areas of the eu facing the most difficult challenges and constantly threatened by a spirit of euroscepticism. a genuine evolution of cohesion policies is needed, which, by involving urban areas more and better, will not only be able to maximise the results and objectives sought, but also to create a consensus on community institutions and a european spirit capable of overcoming the disruptive tendencies that the economic crisis has been accentuating.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the urban dimension of the europe 2020 objectives. this own-initiative report aims to guide european policies so that they are sustainable and smart. it is a report which aims to create a wider space for efficient management of urban resources and policies. the majority of european citizens live in urban areas and there is a growing need for policy guidance to help urban planning. urban planning can in itself be an instrument for boosting economic growth and promoting cohesion.
in writing. − the key to the successful implementation of urban planning policies in economic growth lies in the good integration between tangible infrastructures and intangible relationship systems. the economic, social and territorial future can only be thought of in a logic of interdependencies, with a view to a global approach to problems based on the principle of integration between the segments of intervention. urban planning, which seeks to create an attractive urban environment, can become an important factor in economic recovery by enabling improvements in mobility in urban centres, the energy-efficient upgrading of obsolete housing stock and the creation of new social housing as a more urgent response to poverty. the promotion of urban redevelopment and regeneration is intended to create wealth and opportunities, while improving the quality of life by enhancing the identities, memory and history of the territories. this report therefore calls for the development of a plan for the protection and redevelopment of urban areas that can provide the necessary legal basis, define common and shared medium- and long-term objectives and optimise the use of cohesion policy funds. i voted in favour.
in writing. - around 80% of europeans live in urban areas, where the effects of the economic crisis are largely concentrated and where the challenges of combating climate change, job creation, well-being and quality of life are most acute. i believe that urban areas should draw up medium- to long-term action plans in the areas of economic, social and territorial cohesion, define measures to complete and rehabilitate existing urban areas and enhance green spaces, leisure, culture and sport. urban areas play a key role in the economic recovery and job creation of the european union and should play an active role in the objectives and targets of the europe 2020 strategy. i think it is therefore essential that a reserve of at least 5% of erdf funds be set up, allocated directly to the municipalities and allocated to integrated actions for sustainable urban development.
in writing. − the development of plans for the protection and redevelopment of urban areas, the rehabilitation of marginalised neighbourhoods, the functional conversion of derelict sites to make them more attractive, while responding to the collective need for public space, green space, leisure and sport, and the promotion of historical and cultural heritage, can make an indisputable contribution to economic growth and development in cities. this approach envisages an interconnection of the natural and environmental system with the historical-cultural and socioproductive, also referring to the importance of developing access to public services, improving urban spaces and the growth of the economic fabric, residential works and infrastructure. the report is a positive one, despite some pointed differences, and without forgetting the need to integrate the requirements of local development into the problems of suburban, surrounding and rural areas, in order to promote a non-conflict relationship.
in writing. - i approve this report. i believe that a greater role should be given to regional and local authorities in order to increase their contribution to the economic development of the european union, as this will bring more efficiency to the implementation of cohesion policy. regions and local authorities are the most important actors in the implementation of cohesion policy. however, i think that the proper importance is not yet given to these levels of power at european level, and the role of these authorities in intervening should be strengthened and allow for a fuller use of the funds contributing to economic and social cohesion within the european union.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to explore effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between european funding programmes under the european commission's common strategic framework. the european parliament's negotiating mandate on this legislation is now defined and its priorities include greater involvement of local and regional authorities, as well as greater flexibility to allow regions to define their priorities, taking into account their needs, and the need for greater emphasis on stimulating growth and competitiveness. the creation of common rules and close coordination for all funds covered by the common provisions regulation (cpr) is therefore necessary. member states and local and regional authorities should have the opportunity to use more than one european funding programme to support projects. it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of european funding, to increase simplification and to allow potential beneficiaries easier access to funding. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − in the light of the current economic climate, it is clear that funding under political cohesion is becoming increasingly important in europe's regions and that there is a growing need to ensure that money is spent more effectively so that citizens can benefit fully from european funding. to enhance the effectiveness of european funding at local and regional level, it is important to create synergies between the european funding programmes covered by the commission's common strategic framework. i welcome the creation of partnership contracts, as they reflect the growing attention paid to regional and local authorities. partnership agreements shall define an integrated approach to territorial development by introducing measures to ensure the implementation of national and regional mechanisms in order to encourage coordination between the funds covered by the cpr and other european and national funding instruments.
in writing. - cohesion policy is one of the eu's most important policies. the imbalances between the various regions of europe are the greatest threat to the project of political and economic integration of a strong, just and united union. the territorial dimension is a cross-cutting aspect of cohesion policy which gives european regions the opportunity to exploit their territorial potential and thus achieve the objectives of cohesion policy. i therefore support this report because i welcome the intention to exploit effective and efficient mechanisms that create synergies between the european funding programmes covered by the european commission's common strategic framework, allowing for a reinforcement of the effectiveness of european funding at local and regional level. it is noted that despite progress towards convergence across the union, disparities between eu regions still persist, and hence the objectives of territorial cohesion are inseparable from economic and social challenges. a territorial approach allows for more economic and social cohesion and is an incentive for development, employment, poverty reduction and social inclusion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the role of territorial development in cohesion policy, because it includes proposals to create synergies between the various european funding programmes and to strengthen the role of regions and local authorities in order to make cohesion policy more effective.
in writing. − access to european solidarity for the most disadvantaged regions is one of the noblest features of this project, and the union's determination to persevere in its efforts to reduce disparities between its regions despite the economic and financial difficulties affecting a large part of its member states should be welcomed. i share the concerns of those who believe that european funds should be managed and awarded in a more transparent and understandable way, and that the best practices in this area should be adopted. reducing waste, making access more flexible, coordinating support and monitoring its use are key ideas that should guide european action. as a member of parliament from a country which benefits from cohesion policy, i believe that it should be better exploited by the member states and that, in order for this to happen, there should be no excessive bureaucratic obstacles or unreasonable requirements that prevent potential applicants from doing so.
in writing. - derek vaughan presents a report on optimising the role of territorial development in cohesion policy (cp). the objective of the european union's cfp is to close the economic and social gaps that still exist between the 271 regions of the 27 member states (ms). in fact, one in four regions has a gross domestic product per inhabitant below 75% of the eu average, with the peripheral and outermost regions having the lowest development rates. to overcome this, the eu has allocated around 81.5% of cohesion policy funds to its convergence objective, with a view to boosting growth in the less developed regions. the amounts for this objective are supplemented by the amounts for the regional competitiveness and employment objective (16%) and the european territorial cooperation objective (2.5%). the eu guidelines call on member state governments and local authorities to maximise the use of these funds european regional development fund (erdf), european social fund (esf) and cohesion fund (cf) implemented best practices in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. to this end, it is essential that local authorities and regions have greater flexibility in the management of these funds. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this own-initiative report proposes to strengthen the territorial objective of cohesion policy, with greater integration of european funds in the 2014-2020 mff, mechanisms for the integration of the structural funds, and for the creation of synergies between the 5 european funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd and emff) covered by the common provisions regulation. it is the various negative aspects of this report. it is worth noting that, at a crucial moment for the future of cohesion policy, the report accepts the blackmail of those who want to reduce cohesion funding or, at best, keep it at current levels of poverty, then defies the usual arguments of greater efficiency, synergies, innovative instruments, and finally misses the point: without a substantial increase in the budget, it will not be possible to put into practice the principle of cohesion so much advocated, even more so in a context of deepening capitalist integration (single market, common policies) and its inevitable effects on increasing inequalities and divergence. the report shares the view that cohesion policy is subordinated to the objectives of the neoliberal agenda of the eu 2020 strategy (liberalisations, deepening of the single market). it is a path which is associated with the blackmail of 'macro-economic conditionality' and which we categorically reject.
in writing. − this own-initiative report aims to explore effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between the european funding programmes covered by the commission's common strategic framework. integrating the implementation of funding programmes will make it possible to enhance the effectiveness of european funding at local and regional level. this document includes examples of mechanisms currently in progress or being considered for implementation in european regions. territorial cohesion is an objective of the treaty under article 174 together with economic and social cohesion. there is a growing need for a bottom-up approach to mobilise the potential of local and regional development. to this end, it is essential to establish common rules and close coordination for all funds covered by the cfp (european regional development fund, european social fund, cohesion fund, european agricultural fund for rural development and european maritime and fisheries fund). in addition, the implementation of strategies at local level should be the responsibility of local actors and authorities, aiming to respond to economic and social needs while maintaining proximity to citizens.
in writing. − this report presents the creation of a new legislative framework for cohesion policy which provides for the integration of the 5 funds and their synergy in order to optimise the future financial amounts available. i believe that it is possible and desirable to do more with less, but that does not mean that i accept the council's position on the reduction of cohesion funds in the union budget, a dramatic situation for objective regions such as the azores. in the face of an unprecedented economic, financial and social crisis, some people want to impose cuts in the union budget for the first time in history. it's paradoxical and absurd. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be elected by the european parliament. in fact, there are regions and situations where community funds are used to create dependencies which contribute to the perpetuation of power. funds involve fewer citizens than they could and are spent on unsustainable projects instead of being invested in profitable projects that create wealth, jobs and economic dynamism.
in writing. − the policy of territorial, economic and social cohesion is a key objective of the eu, which seeks to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the most disadvantaged regions. the implementation of these policies is governed by the common provisions regulation (cpr), which lays down rules applicable to each of the five european programmes for which they are intended to be financed. in the implementation effort, the territorial dimension, as a cross-cutting aspect of cohesion policy, deserves special attention. in order to achieve the development of rural areas affected by industrial transition and natural or demographic constraints, it is necessary to strengthen relations with urban areas in order to encourage participation in the integrated activities of the units in which they are located and, consequently, to achieve development objectives. the rapporteur argues that providing member states with the use of various funding programmes in an integrated way, by assigning management responsibilities to local and regional authorities, creates greater capacity to integrate the best combination of funds adapted to territorial needs. for these reasons and in view of the simplification of the instruments, so as to allow beneficiaries easier access to finance, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this document from the committee on regional development, of which i am a member, seeks to explore effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between the european funding programmes covered by the future common strategic framework. better integration of the implementation of funding programmes will make it possible to increase the effectiveness of european funding at local and regional level. moreover, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, territorial cohesion constitutes an objective of the treaty under article 174 tfeu, together with economic and social cohesion. there is thus a growing need for a bottom-up approach to mobilise the potential of local and regional development. to this end, i agree that it is essential to establish common rules and close coordination for all the funds covered by the common strategic framework. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this own-initiative report proposes to strengthen the territorial objective of cohesion policy, to further integrate european funds into the 2014-2020 mff and to provide mechanisms for the integration of the structural funds and for the creation of synergies between the 5 european funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd and emff) covered by the common provisions regulation. unfortunately, there are several negative aspects to this report. it is worth noting that, at a time when the majority of parliament says it is defending 'solidarity' more than ever, the report accepts the blackmail of those who want to reduce cohesion funds or, at best, keep them at current levels of poverty, then defies the usual arguments of greater efficiency, synergies, innovative instruments, and finally misses the point: without a substantial increase in the budget, it will not be possible to put into practice the principle of cohesion so much advocated, even more so in a context of deepening capitalist integration (single market, common policies) and its inevitable effects on the increase of inequalities and divergence. we also reject the blackmail of 'macroeconomic conditionality', a principle which is not 'solidarity-based'.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european solidarity fund is the main instrument of the european union for implementing the principle of solidarity, which is enshrined not only in the treaties for disaster situations, but also, and most importantly, rooted in the fundamental values that created the european union: solidarity among the european peoples. i am in favour of any measure which minimises bureaucracy and prevents the effective and flexible mobilisation of this important fund, particularly in the event of a disaster, so that it is immediately available. the solidarity of the european union with its member states, and above all with its citizens, must never be called into question, and this is the principle and value that must be applied in practice, because without the concrete expression of this value there is no real european union.
in writing. − following the devastating floods in central europe in 2002, the european union (eu) set up the eu solidarity fund which provided financial assistance to deal with the damage caused by 49 disasters, mainly floods and fires. the solidarity fund has proved to be one of the european union's most successful and appreciated instruments, and one of the few at the eu's disposal to demonstrate its solidarity and closeness to citizens. however, after that time, we should simplify procedures and make definitions clearer, more precise and more transparent. the fund is able to respond to major disasters, but not to minor ones. it is therefore necessary to define clearly and precisely the concept of disaster and access to the fund in the case of 'small' disasters. since it is impossible to anticipate how much will be used throughout the year, this instrument should remain outside the eu budget and should continue to be used in exceptional circumstances, even if the catastrophe does not reach the eligibility threshold. i voted in favour of this report because i consider the objectives of the european union solidarity fund to be important.
in writing. − changes in the economic situation of the union and of most of its member states make it imperative to revise the regulation on the european union solidarity fund for the new financial period 2014-2020. this instrument should be adapted to the current reality, with changes that are capable of improving the fund's operational efficiency without generating additional costs. i welcome this new reform proposal which aims to simplify procedures and make definitions clearer, more precise and more transparent.
in writing. − the eu solidarity fund, set up in 2002, is arguably the clearest, most decisive and most important expression of european solidarity towards citizens facing a difficult situation (natural or man-made disaster, terrorist attack, etc.), with some 42 applications approved by the end of 2010, with a total financial support of over eur 2.4 billion. the eusf is widely recognised as one of the most satisfactory instruments at the disposal of the eu. however, it is necessary to amend the current regulation in order to improve the operability and flexibility of the fund, by improving the efficiency and speed of the administrative procedures necessary for its mobilisation, by reducing the time needed for granting aid to the affected regions and by increasing its visibility with a view to improving the eu's credibility with its citizens. understandably, in the current political climate characterised by a difficult budgetary situation in many member states, it is difficult to move forward with a proposal that entails additional costs. however, it seems reasonable to me that an agreement can be reached in good time to adapt this instrument to the present situation and make it more effective, in particular by simplifying procedures and making definitions clearer, more precise and more transparent.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up in 2002 in the aftermath of the severe floods in central europe and has established itself as the main instrument for assisting european citizens and member states affected by disasters. today, it marks 10 years of success in applying the principle of european solidarity with over €3.2 billion of financial aid provided to 23 member states in 49 disasters. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in order to continue to provide aid during emergency operations to the populations hit by disasters and to alleviate the financial burden on member states, the effectiveness of the eusf needs to be improved. in particular, by clearly and concretely defining the concept of disaster, and in particular by clarifying the access criteria in cases of 'regional disasters'. but also by reducing the bureaucracy involved in mobilising the fund, thereby reducing the time between the occurrence and the granting of aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european union solidarity fund, implementation and enforcement, as it reiterated the need to review this eusf regulation with a view to improving its operability and flexibility. in view of the trend towards an increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters as a result of climate change, it is urgent to simplify and adapt procedures in order to enhance the effectiveness of the eusf.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund has embodied the motto that i have often invoked and which i consider essential for the construction of an integration project for the benefit of all the populations of the member states: more than 'united in diversity', we must show that we are 'united in adversity'. my country has already benefited from the fund. i recognise its importance and the need to evaluate how it is working and to improve it wherever necessary and possible. the fact that, as mentioned, the majority of applications to the fund (63%) were submitted under the exceptional category 'regional disaster' of which 66% were rejected after the commission's assessment makes clear the need for this in-depth reflection on its scope and limits. i hope that parliament's recommendations will have the desired effect and that the next evaluation of the fund will look more favourably on it. i would particularly like to see less use of the internet if that means fewer disasters in the union. i would also like to take this opportunity to greet my colleague, rosa estaràs ferragut, and to congratulate her on the excellent work she has done here.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund (eusf), established in 2002, is a financial instrument for solidarity between all member states (ms) whose objective is to minimise the damage caused by major natural disasters that may occur in the european union or in the states in the process of accession. after 10 years of the fund's application, we have seen that there are some areas for improvement. the time between the day of the disaster and the moment when the affected regions receive the allocated amounts should be shortened. this period, which is on average nine months, can exceed two years. it is therefore necessary to review this mechanism and, if possible, to advance the funds. i voted in favour of the report by mrs rosa estaràs ferragut on the eusf, its implementation and execution, because i agree with the need to change the current methodology in order to simplify procedures so that they are more transparent and the fund more effective. given that 60% of the applications submitted were not considered as major disasters because of a lack of a framework, i call on the commission to ensure that, in the legislative initiative to be presented shortly, smaller disasters can also be included in this fund.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of the european union solidarity fund as an instrument to enable a financial response to major disasters in the member states or in future accession countries. it also makes a set of recommendations to improve the fund's operability and flexibility by simplifying and increasing its visibility and credibility, being critical of the long lead-up to its mobilisation, and advocating the efficiency and speed of administrative procedures, as well as the need to reduce bureaucracy and the time between the occurrence of the disaster and the arrival of support. we have long criticised the delays associated with the mobilisation of the eusf - as was evident in the case of the disaster that affected the island of madeira on 20 february 2010 - and we have long pointed to the need for amendments to its regulation. this report generally accepts most of these amendments and we have therefore supported it. in addition to the above, the following suggestions are also included: the 'possibility of making advance payments as soon as the affected member state has requested aid'; the need to take into account slow-moving disasters such as drought, which particularly affect mediterranean regions; another consideration of disasters with a high regional impact and the revision of the current eligibility thresholds.
in writing. − following the various natural disasters that struck central europe in 2002, and in the absence of an instrument to assist the population and the member states affected by these disasters, the union created a new instrument: the european union solidarity fund. since then, the regulation governing it has not been modified to adapt it to new needs and to correct some of the shortcomings that have been identified during the ten years of application. since its establishment and until september 2012, the fund has provided financial assistance to cope with the damage caused by 49 disasters, mainly floods and fires. it is important that we make some changes to the rules of this fund to make it even more effective. the changes in the economic situation of the union and of most of its member states have led the commission, in a new attempt to adapt the instrument to the current reality, to propose changes to the procedure which are capable of improving the fund's operation without generating additional costs. the aim of this new reform proposal is to simplify procedures and make definitions clearer, more precise and more transparent.
in writing. − following the devastating floods in central europe in 2002, and in the absence of an instrument to assist the population and the member state affected by a disaster, the union created a new instrument: the eu solidarity fund. since then, the regulation governing it has not been modified to adapt it to new needs and to correct some of the shortcomings identified during the ten years of application. the fund has already provided financial assistance to cope with damage caused by 49 disasters, mainly floods and fires. in recent years the commission has been receiving an increasing number of applications, due not only to an increased number of disasters but also to the fact that the existing regulations are not clear as to the possible coverage and eligibility of disasters for which applications are submitted under the derogating scheme of the so-called 'extraordinary regional disasters'. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work and welcome the updating of the solidarity fund legislation, particularly as regards a better definition of disaster, simplification of procedures and, above all, the possibility of classifying a prolonged drought as a disaster. this is a measure that only loses late.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund has been mobilised over the past 10 years to provide financial assistance in 49 disasters, mostly floods and fires. despite being one of the most successful and appreciated instruments demonstrating the union's solidarity and closeness to european citizens, the eu solidarity fund and its implementation and enforcement have been marked by some shortcomings, mainly due to the ambiguous wording of the regulation and the lengthy process of mobilising the fund. it is therefore necessary to revise the regulation, by simplifying bureaucratic procedures and clarifying the concept of catastrophe, so that the fund can operate more effectively.
in writing. - the autonomous region of madeira, where i come from, has been struck by serious natural disasters in recent years. in fact, the geographical and natural characteristics of this region contribute to a higher risk of disasters. however, its economic and structural conditions also contribute to increasing the severity and duration of its effects. it is therefore necessary that in the near future the solidarity fund can be activated quickly and that at the same time advance payments can be made. it would also be more fair if, in the event of a disaster in an outermost region, the constraints of that region could be taken into account in the weighting of the fund's eligibility criteria. for the reasons i have outlined, i am voting in favour of the document calling for a reform of the solidarity fund.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of the european union solidarity fund as an instrument to enable a financial response to serious disasters in the member states or in future accession countries. it also makes a set of recommendations to improve the operability and flexibility of the fund by simplifying and increasing its visibility and credibility, being critical of the long lead-up to its mobilisation, and advocating the efficiency and speed of administrative procedures, as well as the need to reduce bureaucracy and the time between the occurrence of the disaster and the arrival of support. we have long criticised the delays associated with the mobilisation of the eusf - as was evident in the case of the disaster that affected the island of madeira on 20 february 2010 - and we have long pointed to the need for amendments to its regulation. this report generally accepts most of these amendments and we have therefore supported it.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that an administrative procedure law can and should strengthen the legitimacy and transparency of the european union, while providing greater legal certainty for citizens and legal persons in their dealings with the administration of the european union. i therefore agree with a set of general principles to be followed in order to achieve good administration and which should lead to more transparent action by the european union. the legitimacy of a european administration is essential, remembering that this is the european year of citizens, and for this reason any act that gives more legitimacy to the institutions of the european union is important.
in writing. − pursuant to article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), this report calls on the european commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on a european law of administrative procedure, with the aim of guaranteeing the right to good administration through an open, efficient and independent administration, based on the european law of administrative procedure. the regulation shall apply to the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies ('the union administration') in their relations with the public, its scope being limited to direct administration. the regulation should therefore codify the fundamental principles of good administration and regulate the procedure to be followed by the union administration. the implementation of an administrative procedure law would help the union to facilitate internal organisation and to promote standards of administration, increasing the legitimacy of this body, and the trust of citizens, who are increasingly confronted with european administration without corresponding procedural rights such as the right to be heard or the right to access their own file. this regulation will help to strengthen good administrative practice, impartiality and legality, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the administrative procedure law is an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the union and, at the same time, to give citizens and legal persons clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their relations with the union administration. it should codify a set of general principles of good administration, which should guide the action of the union administration, and establish a minimum number of basic procedural rules to be followed by the union administration when dealing with individual cases involving a natural or legal person, and other situations where a person has direct or personal contact with the union administration. in particular, these rules should promote transparency and accountability and increase citizens' trust in the eu administration.
in writing. − the eu's powers have been increasing over the years and citizens are increasingly confronted with the eu administration (institutions, bodies, services and agencies). in many cases they do not have procedural rights which they can use if necessary. the eu does not have a coherent and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law, which makes it difficult for european citizens to have a clear and comprehensive view of their administrative rights under eu law. in view of the new powers conferred by the lisbon treaty in this area, i support this report which calls for the creation of a regulation which will create minimum guarantees for citizens and businesses, contributing to greater transparency, legitimacy, accountability and to increase citizens' trust in the eu administration. the eu needs to give quick, clear and visible answers to its citizens in an effort to meet their legitimate expectations, which will bring clear benefits not only to citizens but also to the administration in terms of better functioning of services and increased efficiency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for urging the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation providing for the introduction of a european law on administrative procedure, with the aim of contributing to a more open, efficient and independent administration, and which applies to the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies.
in writing. − an administrative procedure law is an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the union and, at the same time, to give citizens and legal persons clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their relations with the union. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − europeans are well-educated and informed citizens who know their rights and demand that they be respected. relations between citizens and public administrations should be guided by rules and principles which place the public administration at the service of the public. in fact, public services exist to serve citizens who support them with their taxes and not the other way around. the initiative report under review, drawn up by luigi berlinguer, contains a set of recommendations to the commission on a european union (eu) code of administrative procedure. the eu needs an administrative procedure law with clear rules, which defends the rights of citizens. we all know that no rules can bring nothing but trouble. if we want more europe, we need more efficient administration. i voted in favour of this report, which was unanimously approved in the committee on legal affairs, because, like the rapporteur, i am in favour of a more efficient, open and transparent administration. we all know that administrations do not always comply with the law, with significant disadvantages for european citizens. i hope that the new legislation will put an end to the mismanagement which sometimes still occurs in the public administration.
in writing. the report calls on the commission to present a proposal for a regulation on a european administrative procedure law, which the rapporteur believes is an opportunity to strengthen the eu's legitimacy. on the other hand, faced with what it considers to be a pressing problem of the eu today - the lack of citizens' trust, which can affect its legitimacy - the eu needs to give quick, clear and visible answers to citizens in order to respond to their aspirations. this concern about the eu's lack of legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens is significant. the obvious would be to give serious thought to its causes and the subsequent inevitable reversal of policies and guidelines, rather than manoeuvres such as the present one, which are basically a flight forward - also, of course, illegitimate. the problem with this report is not so much its content as the reprehensible motives behind it.
in writing. − an administrative procedure law is an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the union and, at the same time, to give citizens and legal persons clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their dealings with the union's administration. the commission should therefore submit a proposal for a regulation on a european law on administrative procedure. the law should be limited to the direct administration of the eu and be applicable to all the institutions of the union and to all areas of its activity. it is appropriate to codify a set of general principles of good administration, which should guide the action of the union administration, and to lay down a minimum number of basic procedural rules to be followed by the union administration when dealing with individual cases involving a natural or legal person, and other situations where a person has direct or personal contact with the union administration. in particular, these rules should promote transparency and accountability and increase citizens' trust in the eu administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for a law on administrative procedure in the european union for two fundamental reasons: (a) the increase and diversification of the union's administrative tasks, both at the level of the european commission and its departments and at that of the numerous union agencies, require common rules of administrative procedure, which give consistency and predictability to the union's administrative action, by reinforcing the principles of legality, public interest, equality and proportionality, which are essential in the exercise of discretionary powers; (b) citizens and businesses need a common regulatory framework for their relations with the union administration as regards deadlines, right of audience, etc. a law on administrative procedure is today an essential requirement of the rule of law as it was in the member states. a law on administrative procedure is a step forward in the structuring of administrative law in the european union. as european integration progresses and the union becomes self-governing and no longer relies exclusively on the administration of the member states to enforce its laws, administrative law should take its rightful place in the public law of the union.
in writing. − an administrative procedure law is an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the union and, at the same time, to give citizens and legal persons clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their dealings with the union's administration. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the commission be asked to submit a proposal for a regulation on a european administrative procedure law.
in writing. − this own-initiative report, based on article 298 tfeu, sets out the work of the working party on eu administrative law, chaired by the committee on legal affairs. this work involved a number of professionals in the field, including academics, ngos and people from civil society, who summarised the contributions gathered through conferences, meetings and encounters. the aim is to establish a legislative initiative applicable to all the institutions and fields of activity of the european union. this will create more transparency and legal certainty in the eu's relations with european citizens and businesses, and strengthen citizens' accountability and trust in the european administration.
in writing. the aim of this report is to ask the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation on a european law on administrative procedure. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. we believe that this initiative is part of the growing implementation of the phenomenon of the federalization of administrative law, part of a process of strengthening european capitalist integration which aims to normalize national administrative rights by interfering with the latter. the report opens the door to the creation of a 'communitarianised' administrative law which would be another step towards the construction of a european federation. we do not forget that it is important for administrative regulation to go beyond the application of fundamental rules and principles, always with a view to respecting the principles of transparency, subsidiarity and proportionality. however, it should be ensured that the applicability of such an internal instrument of the european union does not extend to the member states. only in this way will the sovereignty of these states and the national framework of their values be respected, and the values of the state and para-state administration in the broadest sense be taken into account.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, at a time of widespread financial and economic crisis throughout the european union, there are several processes of restructuring in the labour market. i therefore agree with this report, because european workers involved in restructuring processes must be given guarantees. i would also stress that european legislation is also needed to ensure that restructuring is anticipated and managed in a fair, balanced and competitive manner. it is important to create a european society which requires the involvement of all actors.
in writing. − over the last ten years, european companies have adapted to increasing competitiveness and to an economic and financial crisis which has resulted in the closure or restructuring of many of our companies. there are many differences in legislation in this area in the european union. however, it is important to recognise and protect the parties affected, both the company in terms of its competitiveness and the workers in terms of labour law and safety at work.
in writing. − while restructuring is not a new phenomenon, it has become increasingly common practice, due to the economic changes of recent years and especially the fact that we are going through an economic and financial crisis. a restructuring process can only be successful in an economically and socially responsible way if it is integrated into a strategy that ensures and enhances the long-term sustainability and competitiveness of the company and at the same time protects the interests of its employees, and the dismissal of employees should be considered only as a last resort. each member state is subject to different types of restructuring proceedings and the consequences of those proceedings are also different in each of them. however, this should not affect the rights and obligations arising from eu legislation on the protection of workers or respect for the principle of equal treatment. i believe that the creation of a european framework for restructuring should help to create a climate of mutual trust, and i therefore support the creation of urgent and concrete measures in this area, such as monitoring measures for the activities of companies, in order to prevent any abuse which particularly harms workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i ask the commission to come forward as soon as possible with legislation on information and consultation of employees in the context of company restructuring. the management of restructuring, which includes company managers, employee representatives and public authorities, will ensure greater respect for the interests of companies and, at the same time, respect for the interests of employees. i understand that companies are going through difficult times, but we need to ensure that firms only use redundancy as a last resort, after all other alternatives have been exhausted.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has contributed to an increase in the number of closures and restructuring of enterprises and, consequently, to an increase in unemployment in most member states. according to the european restructuring monitor, since 2002 there have been some 14,000 restructuring cases affecting 4 million workers. however, although there are various employment policies in the eu, the fact is that restructuring processes, even if transnational in scope, involving more than one country, do not have a common legal framework. the report therefore calls on the commission to prepare a legislative act on the information and consultation of workers and the anticipation and management of restructuring. this act, rather than a regulation or a directive, which will impose a single regime, should be a set of suggestions from the european commission to the states, which will be able to keep their national rules unchanged in this respect.
in writing. − since the start of the crisis in 2008, the european union (eu) has already lost 1.800.000 jobs. the implications of the crisis during these years led to the adoption of a new form of economic governance in which social and labour issues gained increasing weight. with public deficits under control, all of them have turned to economic growth and employment. due to the relocation of many european companies to other continents and the import of products from emerging economies, business sector restructuring, although not a new phenomenon, has become recurrent in recent times, forcing workers to adapt to the requirements of a greener economy and focused on the efficiency of natural resources. the report by alejandro cercas addresses this issue and contains recommendations to the commission on information and consultation of workers and anticipation and management of restructuring. while i understand that restructuring a company is not always a simple process - even because of the unpredictability - i am aware that companies have to adapt to new social and working conditions. because this report is an essential contribution to helping us to see things more clearly, i voted in favour and i hope that the recommendations adopted will contribute to increasing european industrial gdp.
in writing. - in the abstract, company restructuring may correspond to the alignment of production processes with scientific and technological development, to increase productivity, to improve working conditions, assuming the maintenance of jobs. but restructuring is not done in isolation from the existing social and economic context. today, the numerous restructuring processes throughout europe have essentially one objective: to maintain or increase the profits of companies by laying off workers and intensifying operations. at a time when measures were being called for to stem the rise in unemployment and create jobs, this report accepts dismissals and advocates that, before dismissals, different alternatives be studied, including the renegotiation of 'working conditions'. in other words, it puts workers before the choice of either precariousness or unemployment, which is unacceptable. to assume that restructuring is acceptable in the abstract concept of 'economic change' is to assume that there is no alternative and that redundancies are inevitable, although, as the report says, with minimal impacts. there are alternatives. the productivity gains of labour must be channelled to the wealth creators the workers and not to capital.
in writing. - restructuring is not a new phenomenon but a practice that is becoming more frequent due to economic change and that in recent years has become more prevalent, taking on multiple forms, intensifying in certain sectors and investing in new ones, with unpredictable consequences for the economic and sectoral fabric of the member states. the economic crisis unleashed in 2008 requires companies and workers to make the changes needed to safeguard competitiveness and protect jobs, sharply accelerating the process of change and thus increasing alarmingly for workers, territories and all levels of government the pressures to make structural adjustments. a strong social dialogue, based on mutual trust and shared responsibility, is very important as the best instrument for finding consensual solutions and common approaches to anticipate, prevent and manage restructuring processes.
in writing. − the european parliament resolution calls on the european commission to present as soon as possible, in accordance with article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and after consulting the social partners, a draft legislative act on information and consultation of workers and anticipation and management of restructuring. indeed, studies carried out at european level have concluded that better anticipation and management of restructuring would help workers and businesses to adapt to the transitions imposed by excess capacity and the need for modernisation and structural adjustment. i voted in favour of this resolution, bearing in mind that information and communication between the parties involved is essential in crisis situations for the management of such situations.
in writing. − the european parliament today called on the commission to present as soon as possible a draft legislative act on information and consultation of workers and anticipation and management of restructuring, in accordance with a set of recommendations respecting fundamental rights, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality, freedom of establishment and the right to property. such recommendations on the proposed legislative act shall address the object, definitions and scope of the proposed legislative act, as well as long-term strategic planning, adaptability and employability, anticipation of employment and skills needs, information and consultation on business decisions, minimisation of internal social costs through a social plan, agreements on the management of restructuring processes, minimisation of external economic, social and environmental impact, public and financial support, and the designation of relevant public authorities. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - restructuring is necessary to increase productivity, to promote technological innovation, and to preserve jobs. today, all over europe, the numerous restructuring processes have only one objective: redundancy. and these redundancies have two main causes: the pursuit of profit and capital accumulation by entrepreneurs or the lack of liquidity in companies due to the recessionary policies promoted by the eu and national governments, which cause the contraction of consumption. the dismissals are the result of concrete policies adopted and implemented by concrete politicians and which are reflected in the majority of the members of this parliament. this report accepts dismissals and advocates that before dismissal different alternatives be studied, among them the renegotiation of 'working conditions'. in other words, it puts workers before the choice of either precariousness or unemployment, which is unacceptable. to assume that restructuring is acceptable in the abstract concept of 'economic change' is to assume that there is no alternative and that redundancies are inevitable, although, as the report says, with minimal impacts. there are alternatives, and today, more than ever, workers are aware of the alternative.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that it is by addressing the challenges in the horn of africa, which impact on european interests through the external effects of instability such as piracy, that we can effectively resolve the situation, which requires a sustainable and comprehensive commitment focused on the needs of the local population in terms of humanitarian aid and socioeconomic development. however, all efforts will not be sufficient if they are not accompanied by a responsibility for democratic governance with respect for human rights and the rules of international law. a strategy that helps to resolve conflicts, terrorism, piracy, irregular migration and humanitarian crises is therefore advisable. i would stress that only local stability can give us a prospect of regional stability in this part of the world, and as a western power close by, the european union has an important role to play, not only because it is one of the main countries affected by this instability, but also because the european union is intended to be a power capable of having an external dimension.
in writing. - i welcome the eu strategy for the horn of africa, which includes not only humanitarian and security policy but also a longer-term development policy. eu assistance to the horn of africa should be targeted on the basis of clear performance indicators and be conditional on the achievement of specific objectives. programmes supporting the eu strategy for the horn of africa should be able to benefit from a combination of resources and the funding allocated to those programmes should be open to other international donors on the basis of clear common rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the current eu strategy for the horn of africa, and in particular the strategies relating to development and humanitarian aid, to be positive. despite economic constraints, the eu must continue to contribute to solving the region's structural problems, including those related to security and stability, strengthening the rule of law and the judicial system.
in writing. − the horn of africa has a long history of instability and conflict despite positive signs of change coming from the region, notably from sudan and south sudan. the region is also frequently the victim of famine and serious diseases caused by environmental disasters, but also by the insufficiency of production to feed the population of the region. i therefore welcome an eu strategy for the horn of africa which focuses on the development of the region, on the one hand contributing to its security and stability, and on the other encouraging the clarification of the channels of financial aid in order to mitigate potential corruption.
in writing. the territory known as the 'horn of africa' is one of the poorest and most underdeveloped regions in the world, where there is a great deal of insecurity due to all kinds of shortages: food, health, education and, above all, governance. the conditions of insecurity, instability, poverty and bad governance have given rise to criminal activities such as terrorism and piracy that threaten international trade and jeopardise the implementation of the world food programme in the region due to the lack of safe conditions for vessels. the report by mr tannock on the eu strategy for the horn of africa comes at a time when, according to the fao, more than 8 million people are in need of humanitarian aid. i voted in favour because it is urgent that the eu should step up its support for the region, both humanitarian and military, to african countries involved in peacekeeping. i welcome the appointment of a european union special representative for the region and hope that the election of a new somali president and the kenyan elections in 2013 will bring long-term stability that will allow for the functioning of strong and accountable democratic institutions, respect for human rights and enhance economic development in the region.
in writing. - this report supports the increased militarisation of this region by the eu, nato and their allies. it hypocritically invokes security problems, dismissing its own responsibility for destabilizing and pushing millions of human beings into extreme poverty and in many cases death. no reference is made to the role played by the intervention of the imf and the world bank in the 1980s, leading countries with relatively large productive capacity and many with self-sufficient production to the almost total destruction of their productive capacity. nothing is said about this process and how it led to countries like somalia entering a civil war that continues to this day. nothing is said about the killings carried out by american drones and the detention and torture programmes they carry out in somalia, uganda and other countries in the region. the somali people are now being called terrorists or pirates to justify interference and denial of their inalienable right to self-determination and the assertion of their sovereignty. the problems in the region will not be solved by further meddling, militarization and war. we voted against it.
in writing. − the eu strategy for the horn of africa must address security and stability issues, strengthen the rule of law and ensure fair processes based on effective law enforcement mechanisms and processes, as well as an independent judicial system, while addressing its underlying causes, in particular through development and humanitarian strategies based on clear objectives. the implementation of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa, which is based on the following points, is of crucial importance: (i) building strong and accountable democratic political structures in all countries; (ii) working with the countries of the region and with regional and international actors and organisations in conflict resolution; (iii) ensuring that the insecurity in the region does not pose a threat to the security of other neighbouring states; (iv) supporting efforts to promote economic growth and poverty reduction; (v) supporting regional political and economic cooperation; (vi) highlighting the importance of promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction in the region, while responding to the basic needs of the population. with the implementation of this strategy, i believe it may be possible to find good solutions for the so-called horn of africa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, welcoming, both in terms of regional development aid and humanitarian aid, the new plan for the horn of africa proposed by the european commission in 2012, known as share (supporting horn of africa resilience) and designed to become the link between short-term humanitarian aid and long-term development in order to break the vicious circle of crises affecting the region.
in writing. − the horn of africa, which encompasses somalia, ethiopia, djibouti, eritrea, kenya, uganda, sudan and south sudan, is an area that has been ravaged for decades by wars, extreme poverty associated with the problem of food insecurity, terrorism and piracy, lack of health care and very low levels of education. given the particularities of this region and the possible spill-over effects on neighbouring regions, the commission presented a strategy in 2011, followed by the establishment of a special representative for the horn of africa in january 2012, who will be able to coordinate union action with the objectives of the strategy. i would like to focus on three key points: support for the strengthening of regional cooperation by the intergovernmental authority on development, which involves these countries in dialogue and the search for joint solutions; efforts to combat piracy and organised crime; and union support for transition processes, which are crucial moments for countries suffering from great political instability. we must continue to support the development of a region with enormous development potential.
in writing. - this report supports all decisions that reinforce the militarization of this region by the eu, nato and their allies. it hypocritically invokes security concerns, shirking its own responsibility for destabilising and pushing millions of human beings into extreme poverty and in many cases death. no reference is made to the role played by the intervention of the imf and the world bank in the 1980s, leading countries with relatively large productive capacity and many with self-sufficient production to the almost total destruction of their productive capacity. nothing is said about this process and how it led to countries like somalia entering a civil war that continues to this day. nothing is said about the killings carried out by american drones and the detention and torture programmes they carry out in somalia, uganda and other countries in the region. the somali people are now being called terrorists or pirates to justify the interference and denial of the inalienable right of this people (and all peoples) to self-determination and the assertion of their sovereignty. the problems in the region will not be solved by further meddling, militarization and war.
in writing. - i support this report because the preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the millennium development goals. genetic resources are particularly essential for the sustainability of agriculture and food security. as such, it is imperative to combat the current loss of genetic diversity that occurs through the process of biodiversity erosion, better known as biodiversity piracy. this kind of piracy, which is a challenge to humanity today, is a new challenge for both the owners of this biodiversity and its users, who are generally the rich countries. i therefore believe that the international institutions within the framework of the policy of cohesion for development should support and not contradict the nagoya protocol, considering it to be an effective tool to combat piracy in the field of biodiversity.
in writing. − the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources (gr) are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security. in this context, biopiracy has emerged as one of the main challenges for developing countries, understood as the situation where biological resources are taken from local communities or indigenous peoples and patented without the profits benefiting the communities where they originate. biopiracy should therefore be one of the major challenges facing the european union, as such practices run counter to the eu's commitments to eradicate poverty and protect europe's biodiversity. the right of farmers to depend on harvested seeds must be safeguarded as an important aspect of the 'right to food'. holders of traditional knowledge should be allowed to maintain, control and protect such knowledge, as it is an important aspect in the fight against biopiracy related to bioprospecting activities. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security. moreover, genetic diversity is one of the most important components for the survival of species and the resilience of ecosystems. the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity is therefore a key challenge for humanity. the eu's trade policy on intellectual property rights must respect these objectives of policy coherence for development. it is therefore essential to ratify the nagoya protocol as soon as possible. we need a strong instrument to combat the bio-piracy of genetic resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'aspects relating to the development of intellectual property rights in genetic resources', considering that the protection and preservation of genetic resources is a key factor in achieving the millennium development goals. states and international organisations should apply the principles set out in the un convention on biological diversity and in particular the nagoya protocol to combat biopiracy, restore equity in the sharing of genetic resources and contribute to more sustainable agriculture and food security.
in writing. − genetic resources (gr) are fundamental to sustainable agriculture and food security for all, but are of particular importance for developing countries. moreover, genetic diversity is one of the most important components for the survival of species and the resilience of ecosystems. the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity therefore poses a challenge to humanity. despite being vital to human survival, genetic diversity is being lost at an alarming rate. biopiracy - a situation where biological resources are taken from local communities or indigenous peoples and patented, without the resulting profits benefiting the communities where they originate - has emerged as a major concern for developing countries and it is therefore important that the eu takes action to curb and regularize this process.
in writing. the report under review, drawn up by colleague catherine grèze, deals with aspects of the development of intellectual property rights in genetic resources (gr). gmos are essential for sustainable agriculture and enhance food security. however, we have found that ecosystems are experiencing a marked loss of genetic diversity with implications at various levels, including in the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs). in view of the scientific advances in this field and the increasing value of these gis, we are witnessing a growing wave of biopiracy which urgently needs to be stopped by clear rules protecting the creators and requiring the inclusion of geographical designations of origin. on the other hand, the large seed companies are trying to change the genetic characteristics of the seeds so that farmers cannot use them on their secondary production cycle farms. this is a situation which needs to be minimised. because this is a matter of great future relevance - we can talk about the survival of several species - i voted in favour of this report and i urge the community authorities to encourage farmers to select and use seeds in accordance with traditional practices.
in writing. the report identifies as a priority the fight against biopiracy, the industrial practice of privatising or patenting the genetic resources or traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples, without the corresponding authorisation or award of compensation to the countries of origin, in most cases developing countries. the rapporteur addresses some of the implications of intellectual property rights in matters of genetic resources, making recommendations that restrict their scope, especially when it comes to ensuring access to food and health in developing countries. these are concerns and recommendations which we share, and the report is generally positive. the eu is called upon, in the context of the implementation of the upov convention, to refrain from supporting the adoption of legislation which could create obstacles to farmers' dependence on harvested seeds, as this would violate the right of access to food in developing countries. it is considered that the eu should not pressure developing countries, particularly ldcs, through bilateral agreements to accept more comprehensive intellectual property standards for seeds and medicines. it is also argued that traditional knowledge should at least enjoy the same level of protection as genetic resources when the nagoya protocol is implemented.
in writing. − the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources (gr) are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security. moreover, genetic diversity is one of the most important components for the survival of species and the resilience of ecosystems. the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity is therefore a key challenge for humanity. despite this vital importance to human survival, genetic diversity is being lost at an alarming rate. this erosion of diversity poses new challenges for both the holders and users of gmos, the former being more often developing countries rich in biodiversity and the latter generally developed countries. it is therefore important to start creating legislation to safeguard intellectual property rights in genetic resources. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the rapid ratification of the nagoya protocol as an important tool in combating bio-piracy and restoring justice and fairness in the exchange of genetic resources.
in writing. − the european union's trade policy on intellectual property rights must be consistent with the objective of development policies as enshrined in the eu treaty. biopiracy, that is 'the commercial practice of privatising and patenting traditional knowledge or genetic resources of indigenous peoples without the corresponding authorisation or award of compensation to the countries of origin', is manifested as a practice contrary to the union's commitments in terms of poverty reduction and eradication, protection of biodiversity and the principle of policy coherence in a development perspective, as it criminally prevents the equitable sharing of the benefits resulting from the use of traditional knowledge originating in developing countries. the report therefore calls on the commission to establish mandatory disclosure requirements for the origin of genetic resources during patent applications in order to verify that such patents are legally obtained, in short, to guide the union's development cooperation policies towards poverty eradication and reduction by addressing probity, equity and justice issues in iprs on genetic resources. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources are particularly critical for sustainable agriculture and food security. the rapporteur advocates the rapid ratification of the nagoya protocol as an important tool in combating biopiracy and restoring justice and equity in the exchange of genetic resources. to effectively combat biopiracy, it is important to overcome challenges in agriculture and health, indigenous and local community rights and traditional knowledge, towards a coherent global management system. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report identifies as a priority the fight against biopiracy, the industrial practice of privatising or patenting genetic resources or traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples. the rapporteur addresses some of the implications of intellectual property rights in matters of genetic resources, making recommendations that restrict their scope, especially when it comes to ensuring access to food and health in developing countries. these are concerns and recommendations which we share, and the report is generally positive.
the chancellor of the federal republic of germany. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank you again for the discussion. i would like to make a slightly critical remark, knowing the difference between the large number of members and the european council. but we are often very controversial and have very heated debates, but at least we come. and when i look into that sector, i expressly thank those who are there for being there. because i think a dialogue with a chair is not half as interesting as a dialogue with a member of parliament. i would therefore like to thank those who have taken the trouble to attend this debate and i consider it a great honour, mr president, to have been invited here. i would like to emphasize two points in particular. firstly, the division of europe. i too am convinced that a country like austria, which has close political, historical, current and cultural ties, but also economic ties, has a special obligation in the new member states, and that - you have also mentioned this, mr president - we must work hard to prevent europe from being divided into two parts: the countries with a common currency as a particularly important category, and the other countries. i am in favour of this common europe. but this common europe of a common speed - and i would like to say this to david cameron and the united kingdom authorities - also means that one cannot simply stand by and prevent the others from moving on. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission. i say this because i am convinced that this financial framework will require a great deal of discussion. but the financial framework is a step in that direction, as was expressed in the debate today. what good is it to agree on measures such as training, investment and the fight against unemployment if we do not have the means to do so? (applause from the centre) i therefore believe that this financial framework needs to have an impact and that we must also ask those who are not yet involved in this debate to show an impact in this debate, because no impact for the citizens of europe is the worst possible response to the call: finally take the problems that exist into your own hands, finally take decisions for this europe, show that democracy and its elected representatives are capable of solving problems. that's why we need these results and answers. i would therefore like to take up the point raised by mr stadler. let's just imagine for a minute that we've seen some countries go bankrupt in the last year. who would it have hit? could it have hit those owners of financial companies that made huge profits before the crisis or perhaps even during the crisis? no, it would have hit the working population. it would have hit the people who are in dire need of help and support and it would have done serious damage to the hope of the people of europe for a common future. that is why i am proud that no country has become insolvent and that we have taken action and built protective shields - sometimes late, but nevertheless. i just want to make sure that we understand this discussion. and i will respectfully follow up many of these suggestions, including your contributions on combating tax fraud and other issues. i just want you to know that i am convinced that in a joint work between the institutions - the importance of the commission, the importance of the institutions of the european union, in particular the european parliament - and the responsible heads of government, that in a joint solution, in a joint approach, the best consequences can be drawn from the financial crisis for a common europe, which is not only what we dream of, but also what those who had the courage to start it dreamed of, and which young people in the future should say: we have made an active contribution to it. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the year ahead sees clear dangers on the horizon, but also real possibilities for positive change. the eu's offensive against the rights and achievements of the peoples is deepening, with the aim of imposing a civilizational regression on europe. an offensive that is also directed against democracy itself. so it is with the so-called economic governance, the budgetary treaty and everything else that comes along the line, from the banking union to the other steps in the deepening of emu. at the same time as it subverts and weakens cohesion policy and its instruments, it reinforces the constraints of capitalist integration of common policies into the single market which particularly affect the weakest and most vulnerable economies. this side is the danger. but in many countries, the resistance and the organized struggle of the workers and the people against impoverishment and exploitation is growing. the defeat of the puppet governments of big capital and their institutions eu and imf is a real possibility. this defeat will be a step towards the necessary break with eu policies and towards building a different europe, of the workers and the peoples, of peace and cooperation between free, sovereign and equal states. here are the reasons for hope in a better future.
madam president, it is not just economic. above all it is political, as shown in the slow motion in enacting the csdp mission decided by the council last july in answer to the request by mali to organise the armed forces and stop the progress of aqmi on the back of the tuareg rebellion. despite the calls by the ep and the acp jpp, despite the eu sahel strategy, the eu was not found on the ground responding to the un security council’s repeated calls for urgent international support. last week we heard the president of the african union calling for help from nato. it is now mandatory that all eu member states and institutions rush in solidarity in all forms, including boots on the ground, with the initiative of france, supporting the african union-led regional forces, in the lead. at stake is not just the protection of the people of mali and the integrity of their country, at stake is europe’s own security, our people, our interests, threatened by the terrorist group aqmi with its links to nigeria, somalia, and all sorts of criminal networks operating in west africa. the solution cannot just be military. the political implications of the tuareg rebellion and other conflicts in the region, from western sahara to guinea-bissau, must be part of a comprehensive strategy for peace, development and good governance in this region so close to europe. merci la france et les soldats français!
for the gue/ngl group i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur. i think that some of the issues that have been advanced by parliament's proposal are going in the right direction, particularly with regard to more regulation and also less dependence on the appropriations provided by the rating agencies, and i do think that these are positive steps in the right direction to control the problem we have with the rating agencies. but having said that, i want to highlight two underlying problems which i think continue to persist: the first has to do with the commission's own proposal, and it is already in the original proposal, which is the fact that the commission has decided to build the directive on the basis of the issuer-payer model, which in my view is unacceptable. i think that as long as the rating agencies live off the payment of the entities that ask for the rating, that is to say, they live off the money of those who need the rating, all the doubts about the exemption and the criteria that are applied by these agencies are more than legitimate. i think there's a very simple example that illustrates this, what would we say about a football game, or a football league, where the referees are paid by the teams? we don't think that's very normal. i don't think it's normal here either. and the second has to do with sovereign debts. i think the only legitimate and true solution would be to take sovereign debts off the rating. it's because every time a rating agency lowers a country's rating, interest rates go up, someone makes a profit from those interest rate increases, and it's kind of like the chicken and the egg story: it's not clear whether the low grade is causing the crisis, or whether the crisis is causing a lower grade. and so, having said that and having finished, mr president, to say that i think unfortunately this commission proposal is changing something so that everything stays the same.
i would like to begin by congratulating the various speakers in this debate, starting with the commission and its commissioner, mr barnier, and ending, in a very special way, with my colleague, mr domenici, who has always shown a great deal of openness to everyone in discussing this matter. the first big victory that comes from this approval is the beginning of a change in the way we look at rating agencies, they are no more than mere information elements for the market and for investors, they can't be more than that. and the problem is, up until now, they have been. but i cannot help but point out, looking at the proposal, that it is a proposal which is moving towards clarity, clarity, for example, when defending the idea of pre-established dates for sovereign debt ratings. secondly, it is moving towards better and more information on sovereign debt, through a european institution which is responsible for providing the data on the various debts so that the market can also know about them. thirdly, it is moving towards a situation of better competition. the competition issue is not resolved by regulation, but the modification of the criteria for determining what ecais are, the possibility of a network of small agencies, the mitigation of the mandatory rotation are decisions in the right direction. so is the strengthening of the rules of civil liability and the measures that take away excess, excess effects from what are the decisions of the rating agencies. we're all on the right track!
someone once said that allowing finance capital, organized money, to dominate politics is more dangerous than entrusting the government of the world to organized crime. the phrase well illustrates the reality of today. the rating agencies have been and are central to the gigantic process of extorting resources from the workers and peoples of the peripheral countries, in particular by speculating on their sovereign debts, a process which has taken place in the european union and its faithful accomplices. the ecb helped to throw these countries into the clutches of speculators by requiring the agencies' blessing on the securities received as collateral for the loans granted; he recognized the authority of organized money. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the facts. the essential question, which is not addressed here, is the need for public, democratic control of the whole financial system as a condition for putting this financial system at the service of the economy and development, of the improvement of the people's living conditions.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the consumer in respect of the placing on the market of consumer goods. - madam president, commissioner ollie rehn, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague sylvie goulard on her excellent work. the financial product whose viability we are now examining could be a strong signal to financial markets, supporting a return to economic stability and reducing uncertainty. a joint issue of stability bonds must be based on rigorous criteria: a sustainable budgetary framework with strict discipline and good economic governance, guarantees and incentive systems that prevent speculation and moral hazard. the need to control public debt over the long term is a common problem for the vast majority of member states and therefore the stability obligations should provide for the continued management of public debt alongside measures to consolidate growth and employment. there are several options for stability bond schemes, not all of which have the same effect, but there is still some hesitation in choosing one modality. the next step in this roadmap will be to go further in choosing the most appropriate technical modality for these objectives, ensuring social cohesion, high levels of employment and preventing market distortions. the moral hazard must be analysed in detail so that the conclusions reached are correct and the solutions appropriate. finally, a sign of unity in the european parliament is needed, by means of an express majority vote. a positive signal from our parliament will be of decisive importance for the creation of stability bonds.
on behalf of the ppe group. other this own-initiative report on stability obligations follows on from all the work that was done during the six-pack and, initially, from a letter that commissioner olli rehn sent to parliament, as well as all the analysis that the commission has done on this matter. i am well aware that this is a subject which divides the political groups here very much. that there are many positions which are extreme, either in defence or against the possibility of these stability obligations. but there are points which are necessary as a reflection element. we must complete economic and monetary union, we must help to overcome a crisis situation which is still present. emerging and urgent short-term solutions are also needed for a range of situations. but we must also be realistic, taking into account the position of the various states on this matter. i think it's very much that balance that's present in the text that was done by sylvie goulard, who i want to congratulate here. there are elements to which the epp pays particular attention: the need for financial and budgetary constraints in order to make progress, the recognition that there are solutions which require a revision of the treaties. but there are also questions of the future which will have to be discussed here. the european treasury, the direction of the european union budget, the powers of the european union itself over national budgets. anyway, this is a discussion that won't end here, but it's a discussion that should be had.
on behalf of the s&d group. i also want to thank the rapporteur, sylvie goulard. this text sets out a way of dealing with one of the most serious problems of the euro area: the complete vulnerability of the single currency, the euro, to speculative attacks on the debt of the member states. the 2008 global crisis, imported from financial markets, led to the loss of tax revenues and the increase of social spending in each country. national economic recovery programmes, including those supporting banks, have further destabilised public finances, especially in the weakest economies. without instruments to defend the euro and with the populist statements of some politicians, creditors gambled both on the instability of the price of sovereign debt and on the probability of the bankruptcy of states. one by one, the euro states were being pushed into bankruptcy until the euro was in total jeopardy. today the situation seems to be beginning to stabilize. ireland is on the way back to the markets, portugal will be back next year. why would you do that? because the european central bank has decided to say enough and threaten to intervene in the market by buying sovereign debt through the outright monetary transactions, the omt. the reality is that the euro area needs to fill a gap in a robust and stable way. this gap is the management of sovereign debt in an articulated, coordinated, and possibly even common way, accompanied by the strengthening of the economic governance rules that are under way and that discipline and eliminate the possibility of abuse, a free ride or moral hazard. that is what we did with the six-pack and the commission has produced a report which is the green paper on stability bonds. the two-pack is pending approval by parliament, precisely because more concrete steps are being taken to implement it. the road map outlined in this report is prudent, balanced and a good way forward. i would like to conclude by saying that we can indeed admit that a detailed feasibility study on this subject is necessary before any concrete decision is taken. what we cannot do is bury our heads in the sand and avoid filling this huge gap in the construction of the single currency.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the debate on eurobonds, debt mutualisation or stability bonds, as we call them here, has been dragging on painfully in this house and in other european institutions for a long time, and it has dragged on because the critics of eurobonds or debt mutualisation say that introducing them entails a moral hazard which supposedly takes away the incentive for the defaulting states to continue structural reforms and fiscal consolidation. well, but now that the evidence of the failure of austerity is more than visible, that austerity and recessionary policies are aggravating all the problems of the economies in which they have been applied - and we just need, for example, to look at the countries that are under the intervention of the troika - these mechanisms are more than urgent and it is more than visible the need to introduce mechanisms like these and what happens is that they are more and more late. and that is why i must say that i understand that the rapporteur has had a very difficult task here and i want to thank her very sincerely for the work she has done and for that very reason i also want to add a few points to this debate. i think it is essential that we do not lose some essential dimensions, the essential thing here is to ensure that access to european debt securities is given to economies with high levels of indebtedness and unemployment and who do not have access to financing from the markets. it is also essential to ensure that the common issue reaches those who need it most, and that is a keynote of the work we do here. we cannot allow countries which are in difficulty and which are outside to be left out even more. when a country is in difficulty on the financial markets, that is where the strength of solidarity has to be felt, that is where european solidarity in relation to the debt markets has to have a name. that is called eurobonds, it is debt mutualisation, it is stability bonds and that is the only way we can and must find the resources to finance the economy, to finance growth and to fight this scourge of unemployment, because otherwise, i conclude, madam president, it is like telling a patient that he can only have access to the necessary medicines after he has cured himself and that is why european solidarity exists or, at least, should exist.
the stability bonds we are discussing here, the variant to please mrs merkel of what was once called eurobonds, have clear objectives and consequences. far from any vision of solidarity in sharing the burden of debt, far from any contribution to economic growth and job creation, we are indeed one step closer to the perpetuation of the so-called austerity policies, to the transfer of sovereignty to the great powers, to the centralization of political and economic power within the european union, to the permanent blackmail associated with it. years ago, in the context of a profound change in existing policies, debt mutualisation could have served as a buffer against speculative shock. what is needed now is to reverse the course taken and to reject economic governance, the budgetary treaty, the euro plus pact. what is needed is to tackle the structural causes of debt and divergence within the european union and the euro area and this has not yet been done and is not being done by this proposal.
there is no doubt that the majority of parliament is complicit in the said austerity policy. this report is further proof of that. here we are again confronted with the contradiction that austerity can be applied as a policy of economic growth, an idea advocated by social democracy in an attempt to whitewash its connivance with the course of economic and social disaster that is being imposed on countries like my own, portugal. the majority of parliament here, in addition to validating the path that has been imposed on several countries in terms of public finances, advocates going even further. the reduction of taxes on labour for companies, which threatens the sustainability of social security systems, the increase in the retirement age, the linking of wages to productivity, i.e. translating into a greater devaluation of wages with all the recessive and poverty-increasing consequences, the liberalization and privatization of public enterprises, the increase in redundancies in public administration, the extinction of levels of administration, i.e. the reduction of public services, denying basic rights to the populations, are advocated. much is said in this parliament about job creation and the need for growth. it is ironic that the solutions proposed are always the deepening of the very policies that are creating social chaos and lining the pockets of big business.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate you on this presidency and, in particular, on the results that ireland has already achieved in its adjustment programme, which are, for a portuguese, a great source of inspiration and hope. i would like to say this: your task is extremely difficult, but it is difficult not only because the challenges are great but especially because the hopes that this parliament and the european citizens place in the irish presidency are perhaps too great. in fact, ireland could not have found a greater historic opportunity for a presidency. at a time when we are experiencing the first symptoms of the crisis coming to an end, when there are interesting results in the euro area, when the situation in greece seems to be calmer, when countries such as portugal and ireland or spain and italy are clearly showing positive signs, at this moment we know that nothing is guaranteed and therefore, having ireland as the presidency is also a source of great inspiration for us, but i think it is something very difficult. the challenge you face is extremely difficult. what did i mean by that? i wanted to say three things basically: we consider the focus on growth to be very positive, we consider the concern for the youth issue to be very important, although i note here that it is often forgotten that in the field of crisis it is the elderly who are suffering the most, particularly because there are pension cuts in virtually all the member states and they also need special attention here. i would like to say one last word just to say this: i had experience working with your minister for european affairs, she was a great advocate of good relations between national parliaments and the european parliament; i hope that she, in her team with the prime minister, can also give the council this example of good cooperation with the european parliament.
it is with great hope that we welcome and welcome the irish presidency. i would like to make three requests to you: firstly, regarding the sovereign debt. we know and hope that ireland will return to the markets to finance itself in the very short term and then we will all benefit from the interventions of the european central bank. my request is that in the two-pack negotiations, when we strengthen economic governance again, we address the question of the euro zone's sovereign debt in such a way as to structure the way it is managed in the future. my second request is about growth and jobs. there is nothing better than the opportunity we have now, when we are discussing the growth prospects for the european union in 2013, to tackle the question of growth and employment and, why not, to review in an objective, clear and calm way what the recommendations and adjustment programmes have been and what in practice has or has not worked or only works when the deadlines are extended and the conditions are reduced. a final note, madam president, and i will end it now, to remind you that in the banking union it is important that we do not end up divided into banks of the first and banks of the second class and that we definitely protect our taxpayers from paying what ireland had to pay for a banking crisis that the citizens ended up having to pay.
stability, jobs, growth is an attractive slogan. unfortunately, the irish presidency's programme replicates the same measures that have been applied in the name of such stability and which are totally contradictory to the objective of promoting employment and growth. reality doesn't lie, the recipe is disastrous. the european semester, which this presidency so dearly cherishes as a solution to stability, means the destruction of public services, privatisation, reduction of wage and pension levels, and therefore more redundancies, more recession, less consumer capacity, more poverty, more vicious circle of social disaster. the question we are asked about the european youth guarantee is this: this instrument should never be a substitute for stable, safe and entitled work. a contract should be given to a job, and all permanent jobs should be given to actual contracts. precariousness must always be combated, because it is the most effective way of perpetuating unemployment, especially among young people. can the irish presidency give us an assurance that it will uphold these principles?
europe is experiencing serious economic and financial difficulties, leading some countries to adopt tough austerity measures to balance public accounts. however, i believe that the european institutions need to adopt more rapidly and effectively some of the measures which are being considered to deepen banking integration. in conjunction with the budgetary balancing measures, i consider it essential that new stimulus measures be adopted to stimulate growth and employment. the eur 10 billion capital increase for the european investment bank, the reindustrialisation of europe and the growing focus on innovation and entrepreneurship are some of the solutions that could lead the european continent to a new phase of economic and social prospecting. i would like to congratulate the irish presidency on setting economic stability, growth and employment as strategic priorities for the next six months. finally, i would point out that the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the new cohesion policy regulations are due to be adopted in the course of this semester. i hope that there is a broad consensus on the issues in question and i would like to make the council aware of the need to take account of the natural and economic specificities of the eu's outermost regions.
in writing. − following the decision of the court of justice of the european union annulling the european parliament's deliberations on the calendar of the 2012 and 2013 plenary sessions, it was decided that the 12 monthly plenary sessions should be held in strasbourg. i believe that the strasbourg sessions should be reviewed, but respect for the treaties and the protocols must be maintained. i therefore vote in favour of this report and look forward to the member states taking a position on this matter.
in writing. − i approve of this report, considering that the changes resulting from the recasting of directive 1999/45/ec were due either to the need to update the proposal in the light of the lisbon treaty, with a view to replacing previous provisions, which are now obsolete, by new provisions (including the update of the legal basis, i.e. article 114 tfeu, which corresponds to the former article 95 tec), or to the adoption of the reach regulation and additional changes (introduced directly by the regulation or its implementing acts) which require the codification of directive 1999/45/ec in order to ensure the clarity and accuracy of the applicable rules. although no policy choices were made in the context of the recast proposal, the substantive changes are based on the treaty or new eu legislation on the subject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i see the need to reform the current directive on the packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations. i think that some changes are necessary to update the directive within the framework of the lisbon treaty. this will replace the old provisions which are outdated. in addition, this will ensure greater clarity and precision in the rules.
in writing. − the dangerous preparations directive regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances. the 1999 directive thus sought to approximate the rules in force in the member states in this field in order to establish a level playing field essential for the proper functioning of the internal market, while seeking to ensure a high level of protection for the general public, consumers and the environment. the proposal aims to update the directive in the light of the lisbon treaty and to take account of new eu legislation adopted in the meantime on this subject, such as the reach regulation. it thus intends to replace provisions which have become obsolete, such as the updating of the legal basis, in order to ensure the clarity and accuracy of the applicable rules. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, which does not contain any substantive amendments, but merely codifies the existing text without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations, taking into account the need to adapt the relevant directive to the new provisions introduced by the lisbon treaty and to the recently adopted legislation, in particular the reach regulation.
in writing. the main objective of the proposal is to recast the directive on the approximation of the provisions already in force concerning the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations. this very technical and specific recast seems to me to be intended to adapt the directive to scientific and technological progress in a framework of legal continuity which is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). the amendments resulting from the recast of directive 1999/45/ec were due to the need to update the proposal in the light of the treaty of lisbon, with a view to replacing previous provisions with new provisions, and at the same time to the adoption of the reach regulation which requires the codification of directive 1999/45/ec in order to ensure clarity and accuracy of the applicable rules. in this report, no policy choices were made in the context of the recast proposal and the substantive changes are based on the treaty or new eu legislation on the subject.
in writing. − the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). it applies until 1 june 2015 as a new eu system for the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and mixtures. the recast of this directive aims at codifying amending acts and harmonising with the treaty of lisbon the provisions concerning the power of the commission to adopt and apply delegated acts. the report endorses the commission's position at first reading, taking into account the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which concluded that the proposal in question does not contain substantive amendments beyond those mentioned and thus states that 'the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes'. this is also our view, and we therefore consider the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to be justified.
in writing. − the amendments made by the reform of directive 1999/45/ec on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations are justified by the need to update and codify the proposal within the framework of the lisbon treaty. it should be noted that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question does not contain substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts with these amendments, the proposal is limited to the mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the amendments resulting from the recasting of directive 1999/45/ec are due to the need to update the proposal in the light of the lisbon treaty, with a view to replacing previous provisions, which are now obsolete, by new provisions and additional amendments (introduced directly by the regulation or its implementing acts) which require the codification of directive 1999/45/ec in order to ensure the clarity and accuracy of the applicable rules. the substantive amendments in the context of the recast proposal are based on the treaty or on new eu legislation on the subject. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to recast the dangerous preparations directive (directive 1999/45/ec), which regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of chemical preparations of two or more substances. the amendments resulting from the recasting of directive 1999/45/ec were due either to the need to update the proposal in the light of the lisbon treaty with a view to replacing previous provisions, which are now obsolete, by new provisions (including the update of the legal basis, i.e. article 114 tfeu, which corresponds to the former article 95 tec), or to the adoption of the reach regulation and additional amendments (introduced directly by the regulation or its implementing acts) which require the codification of directive 1999/45/ec in order to ensure the clarity and accuracy of the applicable rules. in the light of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is of a very technical nature and aims to align legislation on the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures and/or solutions of two or more substances. this review is intended to bridge the gap, as it applies until 1 june 2015 for legal continuity, and to reduce possible gaps in confidentiality and protection of intellectual property rights. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). it applies until 1 june 2015 as a new eu system for the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and mixtures. the recast of this directive aims at codifying amending acts and harmonising with the treaty of lisbon the provisions concerning the power of the commission to adopt and apply delegated acts. the report approves the commission's position at first reading, taking into account the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission which concluded that the proposal in question does not contain substantive amendments other than those mentioned and thus states that 'the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive changes'. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i approve this report as this regulation is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be aligned with the new system of delegated and implementing acts. i therefore consider it very important that we find a well-founded solution which safeguards the rights of the european parliament in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, which i think is great, because as a member of the european parliament i consider of great importance the contribution that all of us in parliament, remembering that we are elected by universal suffrage in our member states, can make to safeguard our regions and countries in this matter.
in writing. − clearly, the issue at stake is to go beyond the specific merits of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 to invest in the issue of complex regulatory alignment with the new system of delegated and implementing acts. it seems to me that the rapporteur has been very cautious about this. in this connection, i voted in favour of the report on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, taking into account the need to adapt the regulation to the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, taking into account the need to adapt the regulation to the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon, in particular as regards the new legislative powers conferred on the european parliament by the treaty.
in writing. - the mediterranean sea is undergoing a high fishing pressure which may jeopardise the sustainability of its fisheries resources. it is necessary to protect them and at the same time to ensure the survival of the fishing communities and the fishing companies operating there. this balance is obviously delicate but cannot help being permanently tested. the european commission and the european parliament have been following this issue and i am sure they are trying to make sure that it has the best possible legal framework. despite this common position in principle, in practice the institutions differ as to how and to what extent the commission should act. i hope that we can reach an agreement and that the formal question of commission acts does not overlap with the substantive interest which underlies them and that this can be properly defended.
in writing. the mediterranean sea is a unique environment, with a rich diversity of habitats and ecosystems. from an excellent sea route for transporting goods, to marine resources, to tourism potential, all this space powers. if in the past it was a natural barrier, today it is a link between the north (europe) and the south (africa); between the east (middle east and asia) and the west (atlantic). given its high potential, it is important that it is properly protected. one of the potentialities that deserves the most attention is fisheries resources. we all know the biodiversity that this sea contains and the threats to which it is subject. management measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea are therefore urgently needed. because i believe it is essential to adopt a sustainable management plan that will help member states to benefit from this means, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague anna rosbach on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea.
in writing. - this is another report which seeks to amend the regulation (of 2006) on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea in order to bring it into line with article 290 tfeu as regards the delegation of acts to the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we have serious reservations about the (unjustified) discretionary power given to the commission, which now has the power to amend member states' management measures and plans. we cannot agree more on the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. however, we believe that it is mainly through local management - involving the sector and the communities in the definition and implementation of measures - that this sustainable exploitation can be achieved. the harmful effects of overly centralised management are clearly visible in the more than 30 years of the common fisheries policy. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - the text adopted today concerns a matter of paramount importance: the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea. it is necessary to modernise existing provisions in order to use marine products in a more environmentally friendly way. it is therefore very important to find quickly appropriate legislation for the mediterranean sea, accepted by the member states and all stakeholders, taking into account the specificities of the sea basin and ensuring at the same time the effective sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea is one of the first fisheries sector documents to be aligned with the new system of delegated and implementing acts, and it is therefore of the utmost importance to find a sound and well-founded legal solution to safeguard the rights conferred by the lisbon treaty on the european parliament. in this context, this report seeks to identify the powers delegated to the commission in regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 and to lay down the procedures for the adoption of those delegated acts. the report proposes the application of delegated acts with a limited duration, so as to allow a regular assessment of their usefulness. the report proposes that the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts where member states adopt national measures which are subsequently monitored by the commission, where the member states' measures are considered unsatisfactory. in the event that member states adopt national measures that may affect the fishing fleet of other member states, the report also proposes the adoption of delegated acts. given the relevance of these legislative measures to the sustainable management and exploitation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this is a commission proposal to align regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 with the new system of delegated and implementing acts provided for in the tfeu. in general, the proposal deserves the rapporteur's agreement, but in some respects, such as the adoption of amendments, annexes and the limitation in time of delegated acts, it proposes amendments aimed at safeguarding the european parliament's role as legislator. in the hope of seeing an improvement in the implementation of this regulation and of efforts to achieve sustainable management and exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − under council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, it is proposed that certain powers be delegated to the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that it is effectively implemented. as the european parliament is the european institution responsible for supervising the commission, i agree with anna rosbach on the time limit for the delegation of powers to the commission. such a time limit will allow parliament to regularly assess the use of the powers conferred on the commission. the effectiveness of the implementation of the above regulation also depends on the concrete action of the member states, and i therefore join the rapporteur in calling on them to be diligent in the correct implementation of european union legislation. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this is another report which seeks to amend the regulation (of 2006) on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea in order to bring it into line with article 290 tfeu as regards the delegation of acts to the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we have serious reservations about the (unjustified) discretionary power given to the commission, which now has the power to amend member states' management measures and plans. we cannot agree more on the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. however, we believe that it is mainly through local management - involving the sector and the communities in the definition and implementation of measures - that this sustainable exploitation can be achieved. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering the cartagena protocol on biosafety annexed to the convention on biological diversity to be of great importance, as it contains the international rules and procedures on reliability and compensation for damage caused by transboundary movements of living modified organisms. the importance of this protocol is particularly high, since it allows national authorities to act in the name of the common good and to claim compensation from operators for damage to biodiversity. i am also pleased that the european union and the 24 member states have already ratified the protocol.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that this international treaty provides a framework, based on the precautionary principle, for the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnologies, which may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or involve risks to human health. at the conference of the parties, the eu unanimously supported the final commitment reached on the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity, which was approved by parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'celebration of the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on civil liability and indemnity to the cartagena protocol on biosafety', because it will make a major contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity, particularly with regard to civil liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms.
in writing. the convention on biological diversity (cbd) entered into force on 29 december 1993. the cartagena protocol on biosafety was adopted on 29 january 2000 as a complementary agreement to the cbd and entered into force on 11 september 2003. this international treaty provides a framework, based on the precautionary principle, for the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnologies, which may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or involve risks to human health. at the fifth conference of the parties in nagoya, the eu unanimously supported the final compromise reached on the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity, which parliament now approves.
in writing. − the cartagena protocol on biosafety annexed to the convention on biological diversity is an international treaty governing the transboundary movements of living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnologies. in the context of the cartagena protocol, the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity, annexed to the cartagena protocol on biosafety, focuses mainly on the procedures and requirements for the intervention measures that it is required to take in the event of damage caused by lmos that may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity or involve risks to human health. i believe that this protocol will make a considerable contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety. it should be noted that this supplementary protocol has been signed by the majority of the member states and that it is now important for them to ratify it.
in writing. the report welcomes the conclusion of the agreement on behalf of the european union and considers that the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity will make a significant contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety, which deserves our support. the international rules and procedures in the field of civil liability and compensation for loss and damage resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms resulting from modern biotechnologies are at issue. that protocol establishes a procedure for prior informed consent, designed to provide member states with the information necessary to take informed decisions before they allow the importation of those organisms into their territory, which seems to us to be correct. for these reasons, we voted in favour.
in writing. − the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity, now concluded, will make a significant contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety. in the spirit of the european union directive on environmental liability adopted in 2004, this supplementary protocol specifically addresses civil liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by lmo. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity will make a considerable contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety. in the spirit of the european union directive on environmental liability adopted in 2004, this supplementary protocol specifically aims to ensure civil liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms.
in writing. - under article 34 of the convention on biological diversity, any protocol annexed to the convention is subject to ratification by the signatory states. this convention integrated the cartagena protocol on 29 january 2000 as a complementary agreement to the cbd, providing a framework for the safe transfer, handling and use of living modified organisms based on the precautionary principle. however, the parties to the cartagena protocol subsequently met in conference to unanimously support a supplementary protocol, which obliges states to provide in their own domestic law for rules and procedures applicable in the event of damage, and to consider intervention measures to prevent or mitigate damage, or to restore biological diversity in the event of an accident. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemical weapons, and calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of chemical weapons. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity aims to contribute to a greater and more efficient conservation of the biodiversity of planet earth. the document contains important provisions on international rules and procedures for liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity resulting from the transboundary movement of living modified organisms. the signature of the convention by the eu and its member states (except the republic of estonia, the hellenic republic and the republic of malta) demonstrates not only the legislative coherence of the signatories but also the importance attached by the eu to ensuring the highest standards of environmental protection in the european territory and to promoting it at global level. given the importance of environmental policy for the eu and its economic and political actors, i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. the report welcomes the conclusion of the agreement on behalf of the european union and considers that the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on civil liability and indemnity will make a significant contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety, which deserves our support. the international rules and procedures in the field of civil liability and compensation for loss and damage resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms resulting from modern biotechnologies are at issue. that protocol establishes a procedure for prior informed consent, designed to provide member states with the information necessary to take informed decisions before they allow the importation of those organisms into their territory, which seems to us to be correct. for these reasons, we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve of this report, stressing first of all the efforts made by the s&ds to make up for it. we have managed to change the european commission report which presented a very austerity-oriented discourse and make it capable of welcoming proposals such as the call for growth-friendly consolidation, the focus on the negative effects of austerity, the balance of fiscal adjustment which needs to be readjusted in order to strengthen growth and thus proceed with the europe 2020 strategy, economic development and social protection, as well as calling attention to differentiated fiscal consolidation. it also puts a stronger focus on unemployment and the european union youth guarantee in terms of employment or even an improvement on the revenue side of the budget against tax evasion and ensures that the pension system is reformed with respect to social dialogue. this was the european parliament's response to the european commission's 2011 and 2012 reports. it is now important for the european commission to focus on these essential issues to which parliament is calling for its attention.
in writing. − the question of public finances in the countries of the economic and monetary union (emu) in the context of the economic and financial crisis is a very delicate one, since unhealthy public finances can jeopardise the economic and social development of countries as well as their political stability. in this respect, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, and to ensure less imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, accompanied by greater solidarity between member states. although many challenges remain in controlling excessive debt and deficits, some virtuous steps have been taken to ensure further fiscal consolidation and balance and to contain contagion between countries. parliament considered that countries should channel their efforts towards medium- and long-term budgetary balance strategies, taking into account the need to generate growth and development accompanied by fair social protection and improvements in the quality of life of citizens. the countries' focus should be on implementing measures such as pension reform, promotion of public and private investment, assertive public spending cuts and structural reforms. i agree with the content of this report and i vote in favour.
in writing. − the issue of public finances in emu countries in the context of the economic and financial crisis is a very sensitive one, as unhealthy public finances can jeopardise the economic and social development of countries as well as their political stability. in this respect, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, but also to ensure less imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, accompanied by greater solidarity between countries. although many challenges remain in controlling excessive debt and deficits, some virtuous steps have been taken to ensure further fiscal consolidation and balance and to contain contagion between countries. in this report, parliament considered that countries should channel their efforts into medium- and long-term budgetary balance strategies, tailored to their specific case, and taking into account the need to generate growth and development accompanied by fair social protection and improvements in the quality of life of citizens. the countries' focus should be on implementing measures such as pension reform, promotion of public and private investment, assertive public spending cuts and structural reforms. i agree with the content of this report and i vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it recognises the work done by the member states in improving their budgetary position during the years 2011 and 2012. the economic downturn remains a concern and it is increasingly clear that fiscal consolidation will not be effective unless macroeconomic imbalances between member states and the consequences of these imbalances on the recovery process are addressed.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the last few years have been particularly difficult for the euro area countries. several have been ravaged by the sovereign debt crisis, the aftermath of the financial and banking crisis and, in general, all have been severely affected by the devastating effects of the huge global economic contraction. however, the numerous steps taken by the european union to restore public finances in the member states are undeniable. among them i cannot fail to mention the recent reform of the stability and growth pact, for which i was rapporteur, which adapts the european union's recommendations to the economic and budgetary situation of each member state, in particular taking account of the efforts made by these member states in pursuing budgetary consolidation and public debt reduction targets. i would remind you that the efforts made by the eurozone countries must be welcomed and respected, particularly in countries such as portugal, where the steps taken to rebalance the result of several years of mismanagement of public finances have had a major social impact.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis affecting most member states (ms) has led to an average unemployment rate in the european union of 11%. this situation has forced member states to adopt austerity and budgetary austerity measures which have led to public divestment and, consequently, the bankruptcy of many companies. unfortunately, most of the budgetary restraint measures implemented were not accompanied by strategic reforms. in this context, we need reforms and new policies leading to a genuine monetary union. the fight against fraud and tax evasion, as well as the focus on research, education and programmes to support youth employment, must be at the forefront of eu investment. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr alfredo pallone on public finances in emu and i welcome the recommendations to cut non-productive expenditure. as a consequence of the measures taken by the member states, we see that public finances are improving, as is market confidence, which is fundamental to economic recovery. although i am aware that it is not easy to reconcile economic growth with fiscal consolidation, i think that this is the path the eu must take.
in writing. - if there were any doubts about the complicity of the majority in the european parliament with the so-called austerity policies, this report - supported as always by the consensus between the right and the social democrats - would try to dispel them. the consensus between the right and social democracy, which the right seeks to demarcate opportunistically whenever it is convenient (as happens in portugal with the ps), but to which it always returns at the moment of truth, is the consensus of exploitation, impoverishment, civilizational regression. the fraudulent and fastidious rhetoric which adorns the most brutal attacks on workers and peoples with flowery growth is once again present in this report. it is simply to whitewash responsibility for the economic and social disaster that is being imposed on countries like portugal. the report endorses the 'adjustment' policies in place in countries such as portugal, policies which have not only failed to solve any of the problems they were intended to solve, but have aggravated them for all without exception. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − this own-initiative report analyses the state of public finances in the economic and monetary union between 2011 and 2012. while advocating the need for further fiscal consolidation through structural reforms and investments that promote growth and financial sustainability, this report urges member states to comply with the budgetary rules proposed in the six pack legislation, the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union and the future two pack. the legislation is concerned with reducing the deficit and debt, leading to a further recession in the european economies. i voted against it.
in writing. − unfortunately, the economic, financial and banking crisis shows no signs of abating and has exposed public finance issues that negatively affect socioeconomic development and political stability. we are aware that the recent reforms of the economic and budgetary governance framework of the european union cannot, on their own, solve the crisis; comprehensive action is therefore needed to address macro-financial imbalances symmetrically and to increase overall the level of socio-economic convergence and solidarity within the framework of economic and monetary union. credible commitments to growth-friendly austerity measures are needed to find sustainable solutions to the excessive debt and deficit situations in most euro area member states. only with the efforts of each and every one of us will it be possible in the medium term to find our way back to growth.
in writing. − it is important to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, but also to ensure less imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, accompanied by greater solidarity between countries. the issue of public finances in emu countries in the context of the economic and financial crisis is a very sensitive one, as unhealthy public finances can jeopardise the economic and social development of countries as well as their political stability. although many challenges still persist in controlling excessive debt and deficits, some steps have been taken to ensure further fiscal consolidation and balance, and to contain contagion between countries. in this report, parliament considered that countries should channel their efforts into medium- and long-term budgetary balance strategies, tailored to their specific case, and taking into account the need to generate growth and development accompanied by fair social protection and improvements in the quality of life of citizens. the countries' orientation should be towards the implementation of measures such as assertive public spending reduction and structural reforms, accompanied by the promotion of public and private investment. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the content of the report in general.
in writing. − the issue of public finances in emu countries in the context of the economic and financial crisis is a sensitive one, as unhealthy public finances can jeopardise the economic and social development of countries as well as their political stability. in this respect, it is urgent to ensure a sustainable balance in the finances of the member states, but also to ensure a lower imbalance and greater budgetary and economic integration, assisted by the solidarity that is at the origin of the eu. despite the challenges we face in controlling excessive debts and deficits, some steps have already been taken to ensure fiscal consolidation and balance and to contain contagion between countries. in this report, parliament considered that countries should channel efforts towards medium- and long-term budgetary balance strategies, tailored to their specific case, taking into account the need to generate growth and development, accompanied by fair social protection and improvements in the quality of life of citizens. the countries' focus should be on implementing measures such as pension reform, promotion of public and private investment, assertive public spending cuts and structural reforms. i agree with this view and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis is receding but is not yet stabilised, and some public finance issues have been identified that adversely affect socioeconomic development and political stability not only in the european union but also in most member states. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to put public finances back on a sustainable path, safeguard the need to reduce public deficits through balanced medium- to long-term programmes and improve budgetary coordination and consolidation in the member states generally. finally, i believe that fiscal austerity measures aimed at balancing public finances must be consistent with measures that actually promote growth and employment, so that budgetary rebalancing is sustainable in the years ahead.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. this report is further proof of that. here we are again confronted with the contradiction that austerity can be applied with a policy of economic growth, an idea defended by the social democrats in an attempt to whitewash their connivance with the course of economic and social disaster being imposed on countries like portugal. in addition to validating the path that has been imposed on several countries in terms of public finances, which not only has not solved any of the problems that were proposed, namely the deficit and public debt, but has deepened them, transforming private debt into public debt, privatizing public enterprises (losing profits and taxes), increasing taxes on workers, cutting labor and social rights. the majority of meps want to go further. it advocates the implementation of strategy 2020, the reduction of labour taxes for companies (threatening the sustainability of social security), the increase of the retirement age, the linking of wages to productivity, the liberalization of various sectors and the privatization of public enterprises, layoffs in public administration and the extinction of levels of administration (parishes and municipalities).
in writing. - i welcome this report, which is an important step towards the freedom of the member states to rely on credit rating agencies. government debt ratings will have to be subject to specific rules in order to take into account the specificities of sovereign debt ratings. the sovereign debt rating should be considered as a specific rating with specific requirements. we cannot allow national economies to continue to be assessed without clear criteria and methodology. the new rules on sovereign debt ratings could prevent credit rating agencies from interfering with the political agenda. in addition, this is the first time we have a roadmap for the creation of a european rating agency that could be proposed by the commission by the end of 2016. this agency would ensure the ratings of the sovereign debt of the member states.
in writing. − a credit rating agency rates certain financial products or assets (from companies, governments or countries), evaluates, grades and ranks them according to the degree of risk in meeting their debts within the set deadline. these agencies therefore help to set a fair price for the assets concerned. with the outbreak of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, these agencies have been accused of having fuelled the crisis by frivolous or erroneous valuations of some assets, which distorts markets and harms both investors and issuers. the european commission's proposal to regulate the operation of rating agencies thus aims to increase transparency, reduce the over-reliance of markets on ratings, introduce the civil liability of agencies to investors and avoid potential conflicts of interest. the emphasis is on promoting less reliance on external ratings, limiting cross-shareholdings of shareholders in several agencies or between them and their clients, rules on rotation, prohibition of arbitrary publication of ratings, etc. given the importance of these measures for the stability of markets, especially sovereign debt, i give my full support to this report.
in writing. − a credit rating agency rates certain financial products or assets (from companies, governments or countries), evaluates, grades and ranks them according to the degree of risk in meeting their debts within the set deadline. these agencies therefore help to set a fair price for the assets concerned. with the outbreak of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, these agencies have been accused of having fuelled the crisis by frivolous or erroneous valuations of some assets, which distorts markets and harms both investors and issuers. the commission's proposal to regulate the operation of rating agencies thus aims to increase transparency, reduce the excessive reliance of markets on ratings, introduce the civil liability of agencies towards investors and avoid potential conflicts of interest. the measures proposed by the commission and parliament emphasise the promotion of a reduction in reliance on external ratings, the limitation of cross-shareholdings of shareholders in several agencies or between them and their clients, rules on rotation, a ban on arbitrary publication of ratings, etc. given the importance of these measures for the stability of markets, especially sovereign debt, i give my full support to this report.
in writing. − the activity of credit rating agencies (cras) has a strong impact on the behaviour of economic agents as well as on public institutions. in the recent financial and sovereign debt crisis, these agencies have been accused of having fuelled the crisis by frivolous or erroneous valuations of certain assets, distorting markets and harming both investors and the issuers of these assets. the current sovereign debt crisis has underlined the need to review the procedural, transparency and timeliness requirements for publication, in particular for sovereign ratings, often because of the negative effects that less transparent or less timely publication of ratings has caused in many countries. i support and welcome the new regulation proposed by the commission, which on the one hand will oblige nras to have a specific timetable, a methodology and sources of information for calculating transparent ratings and reduce the excessive reliance on external ratings by investors and bond issuers. i welcome the introduction of the civil liability of agencies for wilful misconduct or gross negligence in their assessments and rules on conflicts of interest between these assessments and a shareholder or member.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the introduction of new rules relating to the activity of credit rating agencies, which aim to increase transparency, reduce the excessive reliance of markets on credit ratings, introduce the civil liability of agencies towards investors and avoid potential conflicts of interest.
in writing. − there are 23 agencies registered in the eu, but standard & poor's, moody's and fitch have a 96% share of the market (45%, 38% and 13% respectively). the untimely publication of sovereign ratings has contributed to the disruption and destabilisation of markets. therefore, from now on, credit rating agencies should establish an annual rating calendar with a maximum of 3 unsolicited ratings. these ratings shall be published on the friday following the close of trading and at least one hour before the opening of trading. we shall thus have greater transparency. there is now an eu-wide civil liability regime that will protect investors and issuers. the question of conflict of interest is also regulated. the new rules prohibit shareholders of rating agencies (who hold 10% or more of the capital and/or voting rights) from holding 10% or more of the shares in the rated entity. the possibility of owning more than 5% of the capital or voting rights in more than one agency is also blocked, unless they belong to the same group.
in writing. - this report contains positive measures that in some way limit some of the harmful effects of credit rating agencies. examples are challenging the ecb's reliance on agency risk ratings and eliminating some of the automatic effects of ratings that were at the root of the bankruptcies of companies like enron. these measures are part of the commission's stated objective of reducing over-reliance on credit rating agencies. the question is whether, even if reduced, dependence should be maintained or not. with this legislation, it will stand. the european commission itself acknowledges that there may be alternatives to credit ratings, but it is postponing its study until 2015 and its possible implementation until after that date. in other words, the eu and its governments were quick to make people pay for the private debt of the banks, they were quick to put the costs of financial capital's mismanagement on the backs of the workers, but when it comes to challenging the power of this financial capital, the finer things... what is needed is public, democratic control of the entire financial system, freeing it from the clutches of big speculative financial capital.
in writing. − the activity of credit rating agencies has a significant impact on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and on the life of public institutions, and continues to generate considerable public interest and heated political debate. the regulation of these agencies is very important and represents a specific and very sensitive aspect of the more general process of reforming the functioning of financial markets. we must therefore launch a debate which takes account of the different approaches and points of view, but which serves to give the nras an appropriate dimension, which implies that their assessments are treated as information to be taken into account, without the agencies benefiting from a special status and having decisive consequences for the activities of economic and financial operators and public institutions. only then can they be part of a system which is becoming increasingly transparent and in which the information circulating is reliable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the domenici report on the regulation of credit rating agencies because reality has shown that there is a need to extend and strengthen existing regulation. after having ignored and contested, before the crisis, the factors that caused it, the rating agencies contributed, from the beginning of the crisis, to its aggravation. so the new measures - more conflict of interest control, civil liability to investors, limitations on unsolicited sovereign debt valuations, a ban on national policy recommendations and, above all, less reliance on one's own valuations - are in the right direction. the crisis had its origin in the deregulation of financial markets. at least the crisis will lead to more regulation - and european regulation - to prevent future crises.
in writing. − stability of markets, especially sovereign debt, is essential. credit rating agencies help to set a fair price for the assets concerned by qualifying certain financial products or assets, rating, assigning ratings and grading them according to the degree of risk in meeting their debts within the set deadline. these agencies have been accused of driving the crisis by reckless or mispricing some assets, which distorts markets and harms both investors and issuers. the european commission has therefore put forward a proposal to regulate the operation of credit rating agencies with the aim of increasing transparency, reducing the excessive reliance of markets on credit ratings, introducing the civil liability of agencies to investors and avoiding potential conflicts of interest. the measures proposed by the commission and parliament emphasise the promotion of a reduction in reliance on external ratings, the limitation of cross-shareholdings of shareholders in several agencies or between them and their clients, rules on rotation, a ban on arbitrary publication of ratings, etc. i voted in favour of this report because i support the measures described.
in writing. − a credit rating agency rates certain financial products or assets (from companies, governments or countries), rates, grades and ranks them according to the degree of risk in meeting their debts within the set deadline. these agencies therefore help to set a fair price for the assets concerned. with the outbreak of the financial and sovereign debt crisis, these agencies have been accused of having fuelled the crisis by frivolous or erroneous valuations of some assets, which distorts markets and harms both investors and issuers. the commission's present proposal to regulate the operation of rating agencies therefore aims to increase transparency, reduce the excessive reliance of markets on ratings, introduce the civil liability of agencies towards investors and avoid potential conflicts of interest. the measures proposed by the commission and parliament emphasise the promotion of a reduction in reliance on external ratings, the limitation of cross-shareholdings of shareholders in several agencies or between them and their clients, rules on rotation, a ban on arbitrary publication of ratings, etc. given the importance of these measures for the stability of markets, especially sovereign debt, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − over the last few years, a number of economists have been blaming rating agencies for the undervaluation of public debt in some countries, with abusive speculation about their financial situation and compliance with agreed obligations. i believe that the time has come for the credit rating agencies to have an appropriate regulatory framework and the powers for the registration and supervision of the agencies should be defined. this is intended to address some of the most pressing issues, such as conflicts of interest arising from the issuer-payer model or disclosure of information relating to structured finance instruments. i also stress the need to reduce the dependence of the member states on the three rating agencies which dominate the world market and to take measures to encourage the use of smaller agencies, whose share of the total market does not exceed 10% in terms of revenue.
in writing. - some good intentions in this report are worth mentioning, particularly in relation to the need for central banks to come to their own conclusions on the risk assessment of financial instruments and to avoid mechanistic approaches, as well as the need for the ecb to reduce its reliance on risk ratings. or the need to eliminate all automatic effects of ratings, to combat the monopoly of the three american agencies, to limit the participation of people in the capital of more than one agency. the report ends up being a big final "nothing" as it has been emptied of some more advanced proposals. it does not diminish the political and economic power of nras, the discretion with which it is exercised and the apparent conflict of interests which often underlies it. the effects of the nras' action are not really affected, their power and their capacity to feed speculation on sovereign debt or on all speculation in the financial system in general remains. the dispute between the euro and the dollar, the economic rivalry between the eu and the us and the fact that the three largest nras are american are not unknown to this proposal. for all these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. i agree with this proposal that the extreme dependence of the member states on credit rating agencies should be reduced. this can be seen in the context of the general agreement reached in regulation (ec) no 1063/2009 which strengthens the initial commission proposal with a view to eliminating all obligations for the external use of ratings in the context of european union legislation by the end of 2020. i would stress, however, the need for the european commission to report to the european parliament and the council on the state of play. furthermore, i believe that financial institutions should have their own risk assessments and should not rely solely or mechanically on credit rating agencies to assess the credit worthiness of an entity.
in writing. − credit rating agencies provide their opinions and research on credit risk and play a very important role in financial markets, as they provide very useful information to investors, such as undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs). however, credit rating agencies should not be the sole assessors of credit risk and investors should not blindly or automatically focus on credit rating agencies; instead, they should make their own internal assessments and use the ratings only as a source of advisory information and not in a mechanistic way. in this respect, limiting the influence of the agencies' role in the functioning of the markets as well as their preponderance in some pieces of legislation is essential and their presence should be phased out. investors should also consider the views of more than one agency and highlight the work of smaller agencies, avoiding concentration of market shares and promoting more competition in this sector. the report is a good example of the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat the risks of credit risk.
in writing. − credit rating agencies provide their opinions and research on credit risk and play a very important role in financial markets, as they provide very useful information to investors, such as undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs). however, credit rating agencies should not be the sole assessors of credit risk and investors should not blindly or automatically focus on credit ratings, but should make their own internal assessments and use credit ratings only as an advisory source of information and not in a mechanistic way. in this respect, limiting the influence of the agencies' role in the functioning of the markets as well as their preponderance in some pieces of legislation is essential and their presence should be phased out. investors should also consider the views of more than one agency and highlight the work of smaller agencies, avoiding concentration of market shares and promoting more competition in this sector. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the risk-based approach is not used to create a situation where credit ratings are over-reliance on risk ratings.
in writing. - the rating agencies - as much as it pains us to admit - play an important role in the financial markets, which we should not underestimate, when they assess the credit market. however, due to the lack of clarity and transparency due to conflicts of interest in their ratings, they cannot operate on their own. it is necessary that other institutions such as undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and alternative investment funds should also be able to assess the opinions issued by credit rating agencies. the report under review, authored by mr leonardo domenici, focuses on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and directive 2011/61/eu on alternative investment fund managers as regards over-reliance on credit ratings. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that credit rating agencies only give an opinion on the future credit risk of institutions, credit bonds and debt securities and cannot be the only institutions in the financial sector to assess credit risks.
in writing. − this proposal may help to avoid the negative effects of some of the automaticities associated with mechanical responses to risk ratings. requiring institutions for occupational retirement provision (oerps) and managers of collective investment undertakings (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs) to carry out their own risk assessment, avoiding reliance on ratings for this purpose, can have a positive effect. the domino effect and its destructive potential on productive activity and the workers and peoples that these automatisms may generate must obviously be avoided. but this does not remove the need to promote the abolition of some of these funds and financial products, given their worthlessness in meeting the needs and interests of the people and their dangerous and potentially ruinous nature for their lives, given that they involve speculation on sovereign debts, food, energy resources and highly volatile financial products.
in writing. − rating agencies provide forward-looking opinions and research on credit risk and play a valuable role in financial markets as a reference point that is easily understood by market participants such as collective investment undertakings (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs). however, ucits and aifs should themselves assess the opinions issued by credit rating agencies and make their own credit judgments, thereby taking a position on whether to agree or disagree with the opinions of the agencies. in this respect, risk ratings are important for markets because they have proven to be valuable assessments of the credit market. however, they should not be made the sole arbiters of credit risk. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to warn against the risk of financial market participants becoming overly dependent on risk ratings. indeed, credit rating agencies provide their opinions and research on credit risk and play a very important role in financial markets as they provide very useful information to investors, such as undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs). however, i share the view that credit rating agencies should not be the sole assessors of credit risk and investors should not blindly or automatically focus on credit rating agencies; instead, they should make their own internal assessments and use the ratings only as a source of advisory information and not in a mechanistic way. in this sense, it seems to me right to limit the influence of the agencies' role in the functioning of the markets, as well as their preponderance. it is important to promote the consideration of the views of more than one agency by investors and to highlight the work of smaller agencies, avoiding concentration of market shares and promoting more competition in this sector.
in writing. − credit rating agencies provide their opinions and research on credit risk and play a very important role in financial markets, as they provide very useful information to investors, such as undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs). however, credit rating agencies should not be the sole assessors of credit risk and investors should not blindly or automatically focus on credit rating agencies. rather, they should make their own internal assessments and use the ratings only as a source of advisory information and not in a mechanistic way. in this respect, limiting the influence of agencies on the functioning of the markets and their preponderance is essential. investors should also consider the views of more than one agency and highlight the work of smaller agencies, avoiding concentration of market shares and promoting more competition in this sector. the central objective of this report, which i have supported, is to prevent financial market participants from becoming overly dependent on risk ratings.
in writing. − the financial problem for some investors arises from the fact that they are very dependent on credit risk ratings to make their investments in debt instruments, without necessarily taking the initiative to carry out their own assessments. i agree with this report, which aims to reduce or even avoid excessive reliance on external risk ratings in order to improve the quality of investments made and thus make europe more competitive. however, i believe that strong financial coordination between all the member states is necessary and that it is therefore essential to move towards greater economic and financial integration for the benefit of the eu as a whole.
in writing. − this proposal can avoid any negative effects of mechanical responses to risk ratings. requiring institutions for occupational retirement provision (oerps) and managers of collective investment undertakings (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs) to carry out their own risk assessment, avoiding reliance on ratings for this purpose, can have a positive effect. the domino effect and its destructive potential on productive activity and the workers and peoples it can generate must be avoided, given its highly speculative nature, the amounts involved (in the order of billions of euros) and the dependence of the productive sectors on financial capital. but what is necessary and inevitable in the future is to promote the end of these funds and financial products, given their worthlessness in satisfying the needs and interests of the people and their potentially ruinous character for their lives, given that they involve speculation on sovereign debts, on food, on energy resources and on extremely volatile financial products.
in writing. - i approve this report, which aligns council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 in the light of the lisbon treaty with regard to the establishment of cod stock plans in the baltic sea. the s&d approach and my approach is to maintain the technical purpose of this report and to allow the content of the measure to be modified in future multi-species plans. i would therefore stress that the work carried out does not yet allow a full assessment of the risks and opportunities and that the current data are limited and scattered. i therefore reiterate my view that in future there will be a need to redefine the methodologies of the content of this and future plans covering all fish species within the european union.
in writing. - the multiannual plan in question is essential if cod stocks are to be fished sustainably. this plan should take into account the particularities of each geographical area and involve stecf and the baltic sea regional advisory council in its regular evaluation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea', taking into account the need, as a result of the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon, to make certain technical amendments to this regulation.
in writing. − the need to bring the treaty of lisbon into line is the reason for the proposed amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 of 18 september 2007. once again, parliament and the european commission are at odds over the decision-making process. the clarification of the objectives of the plan, how it will operate in practice and what the commission's actual role is, are therefore the main issues that need to be addressed. without this full and unequivocal clarification, the dispute over jurisdiction and the double legal interpretations which, although obviously legitimate and natural, call into question the legal certainty of the proceedings, thus calling into question their effects and the interests and values they are intended to protect, will continue. i think parliament's interpretation that the multiannual plan, given its essential nature in the framework of the regulation, should be reviewed by the ordinary legislative procedure is correct.
in writing. - the present report, by jarosław leszek wałęsa, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 of 18 september 2007 establishing a multiannual plan for the cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. since the abovementioned regulation entered into force before the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), certain amendments of a technical nature are necessary. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of article j.3 of the treaty on european union, which provides that the council is to adopt a decision on the basis of article j.3 of the treaty on european union. i voted in favour of this report, as the proposed amendments contribute to a better functioning of the multiannual plan. the fisheries reserves of the baltic sea represent an important food resource which must be urgently preserved on the basis of the co-decision procedure introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the report also allows vessels of less than 12 metres to operate fixed gear within the 10 mile zone and with a submersion time of less than 48 hours, thus contributing to the economic sustainability of small fishing communities.
in writing. − this report follows the commission's proposal for council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. as this regulation was adopted before the entry into force of the tfeu, the commission considers it necessary to amend it in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the delegation of powers. the rapporteur has made some amendments to improve the text. it introduces the need for the commission to consult the baltic sea regional advisory council, relevant stakeholders and the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) in the evaluation process of the multiannual plan. it adds a new paragraph which allows small-scale fisheries to catch cod during defensive periods without this having a negative impact on pre- and spawning concentrations because they occur far from coastal areas. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the adoption of this report establishes the multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea, bringing it into line with the decision-making structure introduced by the treaty of lisbon. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations with the baltic sea regional advisory council and all relevant stakeholders, including at expert level, in order to ensure that the cod stocks in the baltic sea are exploited in a sustainable manner, taking into account economic, social and environmental concerns. it is also important to stress here that, given the increase in cod stocks, the amendment to the report will allow small-scale cod fishing to do so during the fishing season, as this can be economically important for small-scale fishing in view of the prices charged during that period.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to ensure that the baltic cod stocks are exploited in an environmentally, economically and socially sustainable manner. to achieve that objective, the multiannual plan shall lay down rules for the establishment of annual fishing opportunities in terms of fishing effort and total allowable catches. this proposal introduces amendments to allow the multiannual plan to operate efficiently in the light of the codecision system established by the treaty of lisbon. the report proposes that the management plan should define the maximum fishing mortality rate in this area in accordance with the scientific advice of ices. in addition, the report allows vessels smaller than 12 metres to operate fixed gear within the 10 mile area and with a submersion time of less than 48 hours. this change will allow small-scale fishing vessels to catch cod in coastal areas during the summer, when the species reaches higher prices, with the consequent economic benefits for this segment of the fleet. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important element in improving the regulation, management and sustainable exploitation of this baltic sea fishery.
in writing. - this report follows the commission's proposal to adapt regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 (establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks) to the new rules of the lisbon treaty. on the basis of this proposal, the rapporteur has proposed a number of additional amendments which, in general, deserve our agreement. in this respect, the amendment which allows small-scale vessels to catch cod during defensive periods, in particular during the summer months, without having a negative impact on pre-spaw concentrations and spawning concentrations, which occur in deep areas of the baltic sea away from coastal areas, is particularly noteworthy. this is an important measure which will enable this fleet segment to achieve significant economic gains. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this document aims to review the legislation in force which had been adopted before the treaty of lisbon. the multiannual plan aims to ensure that the fisheries exploiting cod stocks in the baltic sea are conducted in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable manner. to this end, a maximum fishing opportunities in terms of stocks is established. some of these rules are based on technical plans, which are based on scientific studies and not on political choices. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this report follows the commission's proposal for council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 establishing a multiannual plan for the cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. as this regulation was adopted before the entry into force of the tfeu, the commission considers it necessary to amend it in accordance with article 290 of the treaty, concerning the delegation of powers. the rapporteur has introduced some amendments which improve the text and which led us to vote in favour. it sets out the need for the commission to consult the baltic sea regional advisory council, relevant stakeholders and the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) in the process of evaluating the multiannual plan. it adds a new paragraph which allows small-scale fisheries to catch cod during defensive periods without this having a negative impact on pre- and spawning concentrations because they occur far from coastal areas.
in writing. - i approve this report, as the commission's present proposal intends to extend the provisions on technical measures for a further transitional period until a regional framework for technical measures is adopted, in line with the cfp. in addition to the extension of the validity of the current technical measures, the proposed text contains an update of the existing measures, based on the stecf opinion and the neafc recommendations, as well as measures to reduce discards in the north-east atlantic, as agreed with norway and the faroe islands in 2010, but which have not yet been transposed into community law. however, it is regrettable that another proposal for transitional technical measures is being put before parliament. in my view, it would have been preferable to find a permanent solution in due course. european fishermen need legal certainty and the term 'temporary' should not be used in vain.
in writing. − regional fisheries management depends to a large extent on technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources and on annual and biennial decisions on catch possibilities. the criteria under which catch is to be made and the extension of the validity of the current technical measures have a considerable impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms must be complied with by fishermen in order to ensure the conservation of species and the renewal of their numbers. these must be designed with the purpose in mind and must not be of such a nature as to make fishing unreasonably difficult or unreasonably demanding. the common fisheries policy is aimed at individuals and families - fishermen, businesses and consumers - and must therefore seek to safeguard the interests of all so that they can benefit from fisheries in a satisfactory and environmentally sustainable way. given the transitional nature of technical conservation measures and the need to extend their duration before a more ambitious interinstitutional agreement is reached, i give my consent to this extension.
in writing. − a large part of our food comes from marine environments: fish, molluscs, crustaceans, algae, etc. all depend on the quality of the ecosystems in which they live and, of course, on how they are managed. sustained management of these resources ensures not only the quality but also the quantity of these resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. for years, the lack of management measures has led to the extinction of some fish species and in other cases to a sharp reduction in their stocks. in this respect, the preservation of juveniles of marine organisms is essential, as it ensures the renewal of species. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources, such as 'minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, fishing defence zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, the criterion for using more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment', should be maintained until the new common fisheries policy of the european union comes into force.
in writing. − the european union has exclusive competence to lay down technical measures laying down rules on fishing zones and fishing gear and the fishing effort and/or authorised catches. the eu is also responsible for adopting technical measures to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, including measures to protect juveniles of marine organisms. the proposal for a regulation presented by the commission, although updating existing measures concerning the protection of juveniles of marine organisms, following the opinion of the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries and the recommendations of the north-east atlantic fisheries commission, remains transitional rather than definitive. the transitional nature creates legal uncertainty for fishermen and their union fishing fleet. i therefore agree with pat the cope gallagher when he says that a permanent solution must be found for the protection of juvenile organisms. i think it is important to stress that, although they are transitional, these measures are of paramount importance given the objective of ensuring sustainable fishing by preserving endangered ecosystems and species. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i approve this report, considering that, in my view, according to the afco's interpretation of rule 13 (1) of the rules of procedure, in a situation of equality between candidates and vacancies, the president may be elected by acclamation or, alternatively, by secret ballot as provided for in rule 169. in the event of a runoff election, the president also decides on the order of precedence of the vice-presidents (article 15 (2), second subparagraph). i note the concern that could be aroused by the fact that such a decision, taken by the president, would not be unanimous. to remedy this situation, i agree that a solution could be to allow a number of members or a political group to challenge the order of precedence proposed by the president or simply to remove the possibility for the president to set the order of precedence, which would automatically lead to a vote.
in writing. - this report is of the utmost importance in clarifying the process of electing vice-presidents, whose order of precedence must be decided by vote.
in writing. - practices and practices, which are sometimes undervalued, are important and sometimes decisive elements of parliamentary life. my experience as a member of the european parliament, as well as as a member and leader of a national parliamentary group, leads me to take these into account and not to disregard their real importance. i therefore believe that the proposed regulation amendment is welcome, although it seems to be a trifle that is indifferent to the actual work of the european parliament and has no direct interest for the citizens, because it is intended to adapt the letter of the law to the practice that has been followed with regard to the order of precedence of the vice-presidents.
in writing. - mr carlo casini drew up a report on the amendment of rule 15 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure (pe) concerning the order of precedence of vice-presidents elected by acclamation. rule 15 (2) of the ep's rules of procedure reads as follows: without prejudice to article 18 (1), the order of precedence of the vice-presidents shall be determined by the order in which they were elected and, in the event of an equal number of votes, by their age. if the election has not been by secret ballot, the order of precedence shall be that in which the president called the election. although not required by the ep's rules of procedure, when the election of a vice-president had not been held by secret ballot, the order of precedence was already established by secret ballot. i voted in favour of this report, which deals with a regulation amendment which is intended to legalise a current practice and thus bring more transparency to the workings of this parliament.
in writing. - in the procedure for electing the vice-presidents of the european parliament, the president has the power, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to determine the order of precedence of the vice-presidents, if the election has not been held by secret ballot, as it corresponds to the order of call made by the president. the report seeks to amend this provision by changing the order of precedence to be established by secret ballot. we believe that transparency should be present in our daily lives and, above all, in all acts relating to public affairs. we believe that the amendment now tabled serves this principle and we have therefore supported it. one of the amendments tabled, concerning the way in which vice-presidents are elected, could possibly favour the election of vice-presidents from smaller groups and, in so doing, contribute to a greater plurality in the composition of parliament's bureau, which would be a positive thing.
in writing. - the adoption of this report is merely to propose an amendment to the rules of procedure in order to bring it into line with the practice of the european parliament as regards the order of precedence of vice-presidents.
in writing. − practice in the european parliament states that when there is agreement between the political groups on the persons to be appointed to the vice-presidencies, these persons (as a rule) are elected by acclamation. however, after that act, the order of precedence shall be determined by voting and by the number of votes cast. this vote is justified because the political groups can agree on persons, but they can never agree on the order of precedence. in this case, the president waives his (legally existing) right to establish the order of precedence. if the political groups cannot agree on the persons to be elected, or if 'independent' candidates have been submitted, a vote shall be taken, the order of precedence being determined by the number of votes obtained at the ballot. as these procedures are not clearly laid down in the rules of procedure of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this draft report which proposes to amend the rules of procedure in order to bring them into line with the practice of the european parliament, thus responding to the concern expressed by the president of the european parliament in 2010.
in writing. - this report aims to clarify and apply the procedure for the order of precedence of vice-presidents elected by acclamation to the practice in force in the european parliament (ep). thus, after a request for interpretation of rules 13 and 15 of the ep's rules of procedure, it was established that in the case of the election of a vice-president by acclamation, precedence should be established by secret ballot and not by choice of the president. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that this amendment will put an end to the concerns and disagreements expressed by several members.
in writing. - in the procedure for electing the vice-presidents of the european parliament, the president has the power, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to determine the order of precedence of the vice-presidents, if the election has not been held by secret ballot, as it corresponds to the order of call made by the president. the report seeks to amend this provision by changing the order of precedence to be established by secret ballot. we support this principle, which we believe will ensure greater transparency in the process.
in writing. - i support this resolution, considering that given the widespread financial and economic crisis in the european union, and also taking into account the youth unemployment rate in the european union, which is extremely worrying, the youth guarantee should be a priority. by reaching all young people under 25 who have been unemployed for four months and recent graduates under 30, the guarantee can offer these young people a quality offer of paid employment, education or vocational training. i also agree that there should be a european union element to the youth guarantee, particularly in terms of funding, especially for member states with high unemployment rates. i also agree that the social partners should be involved in the process of splitting up the youth guarantee schemes in order to ensure their effective implementation.
in writing. - the need to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the international community's efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion; as different member states have different availabilities for implementing the youth guarantee, the commission should monitor the implementation of the youth guarantee.
in writing. − the effects of the economic and financial crisis have been severely impacting young people, with the growth rate of youth unemployment alarming. the european parliament has called for a specific approach to this very high level of unemployment, and has therefore advocated the creation of specific financial support to combat this trend and to enable young people to play their part in pursuing the main 2020 objectives in the fields of employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and the fight against poverty. i therefore support the creation of these youth guarantee mechanisms, hoping that at the next council in february they can be approved by all the member states. it should therefore be seen as an investment in young people, through the provision of esf and other structural funds. i have no doubt that this is a safe investment, with a positive return in terms of job creation and growth, and especially considering that unemployment alone costs around 153 billion euros a year. we must support the young! we cannot allow this generation to be "lost" because we will be definitively compromising our future!
in writing. - i am aware that the unemployment rate in the eu is around 11%, but the youth unemployment rate is over 23% and, above all, bearing in mind that in my country, portugal, it is the third highest in the eu, triggering a phenomenon of emigration, especially of young people with qualifications and no prospects of employment, comparable only in numbers to that of the 1960s, i am voting in favour, congratulating the rapporteur on this motion for a resolution with a strengthened european dimension, since we all share the imperative to support our youth. it is especially at a time of severe budgetary constraints that we need to be able to show our solidarity by ensuring that in the consolidation exercises of our national accounts we do not compromise the future of our young people. i would stress, however, that this 'youth guarantee' is not a job guarantee but an instrument which makes it possible to ensure that all young people have access to a job or a traineeship after they have completed their studies or vocational training. i would add that the implementation of the youth guarantee mechanisms will make it possible to achieve three of the europe 2020 objectives!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for urging eu employment ministers to approve in february the creation of a 'european youth guarantee' to ensure that young people who have been unemployed for more than four months have access to a job or a traineeship. given its importance for the social cohesion of the eu, this project should be eligible for european funding, especially in the member states with the highest youth unemployment rates.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the most terrible aspects of the crisis we are going through, with a rate of around 23.4%, representing some 5 million unemployed young people. the youth guarantee initiative is therefore to be welcomed, particularly in its support and encouragement of job creation for young people through specific programmes, for which there should be an appropriate budgetary framework within the community framework. i also believe that if europe is to succeed in meeting the ambitious objectives of the eu 2020 strategy - with a strong focus on innovation, research and training - it will have to invest in better qualifying its young people, opting for education models that are more geared to future integration into the labour market.
in writing. − as has been widely reported in the media, the current economic and financial crisis is reflected mainly in young people, who, despite being the most highly qualified generation, face increased difficulties in seeking to enter the labour market. in fact, the average unemployment rate among young people in the european union (eu) is around 24%, with some member states (ms) approaching 50%. many young people end up looking for work in a member state other than their own, often benefiting from their experience as erasmus beneficiaries. i welcome the adoption of this 'youth guarantee' initiative, which aims to facilitate the transition of young people from school to employment by implementing labour market measures. youth, through plans to encourage their own job creation, can contribute not only to lowering the unemployment rate at eu level, but also to meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is active employment policies like these that can help the eu to emerge from the crisis and to resume the economic growth we all want.
in writing. − the youth guarantee is not considered a job guarantee but an instrument to ensure that all eu citizens and legal residents up to the age of 25 and young graduates under the age of 30 receive a good job offer, lifelong training, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of losing their job or leaving formal education. the resolution considers that this instrument should be applied by all member states, that the commission should be able to support those facing financial constraints, and that the esf should be structured to allow for the financing of the youth guarantee. despite a number of recommendations which we regard as positive, it is clear from the very assumptions of this initiative that it is not the panacea for solving the problems of youth unemployment in the eu. in addition, the possibility of adverse effects such as the increase in forms of precarious work, of which unpaid traineeships are an example, is not excluded. the resolution also stresses that member states must reform their education systems to meet the needs of the labour market, which is lacking and determined by capital in the interests of its own survival.
in writing. - youth unemployment is a scourge that already reaches a rate of around 23.4%, representing some 5 million unemployed young people in the eu, but is even more serious in countries such as portugal, spain and greece. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − supporting young people in the current economic climate is crucial to boosting not only the economy but also the hope for a better future in which they will be the protagonists. i voted in favour of this resolution, which argues that union funding for youth guarantee schemes plays a key role and that the european social fund (esf) in particular should be structured to enable the youth guarantee to be financed and that therefore at least 25% of the structural funds should be allocated to the esf.
in writing. − the present motion for a resolution considers that the youth guarantee funding schemes should play a key role in creating an instrument capable of ensuring that all young legal and european residents up to the age of 25 and recent graduates up to the age of 30 have the opportunity to receive a good job offer, further education or a traineeship within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving the education system. it also stresses that member states should reform education and training standards in order to significantly increase youth employment and life opportunities, as youth unemployment leaves permanent scars on the victims and contributes, according to independent studies, to the increased risk of future unemployment and permanent social exclusion. in agreeing that this is a pressing matter which must be dealt with appropriately and urgently, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − according to the latest statistical information available from eurostat, in november 2012, the youth unemployment rate in the european union was 23.7%, corresponding to 5.8 million young people without a job, and 24.4% in the eurozone, corresponding to 3.7 million unemployed people. on 5 december 2012, the commission presented a recommendation to member states to create a 'youth guarantee' aimed at ensuring that young people up to the age of 25 have training or job opportunities after finishing their studies. i congratulate the commission on its proposal to enable young people to be offered quality employment, further education, apprenticeships or vocational training within four months of finishing conventional education or becoming unemployed. over the past few years, various member states have been adopting various measures to tackle the problem of youth unemployment. however, it continues to increase without any solutions being found to reverse this trend, which shows the urgency of defining more concrete and practical measures to quickly solve this enormous social scourge affecting the younger generations of europeans.
in writing. - this resolution by the employment committee follows the commission communication entitled 'youth opportunities initiative' which sets out the youth guarantee. the youth guarantee is characterised not as an employment guarantee, but as an instrument to ensure that all eu citizens and legal residents up to the age of 25 and young graduates under the age of 30 receive a good job offer, lifelong training, apprenticeship or traineeship within four months of losing their job or leaving formal education. what concerns us is that the commission, while speaking about this instrument, is strongly in favour of the flexibility of industrial relations. the question we are asked is this: this instrument should never be a substitute for stable, safe and entitled work; a workstation must be covered by a contract; all permanent jobs must be covered by actual contracts. precariousness must always be combated, because it is the most effective way of perpetuating unemployment, especially among young people.
in writing. - i approve this report as i am deeply concerned about the european union's policies in the energy sector. in my view, the role of cohesion policy and its contribution to the energy sector is vital, as it will make it easier to achieve the europe 2020 objectives and the cohesion objectives themselves in a coherent and productive way, with better coordination of the structural funds and other financial instruments. the particular interests of member states and regions should be taken into account in order to align them with existing strategies against future energy challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'role of eu cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy' because i believe that coherence between the objectives set out in the energy policy up to 2020 and the objectives of cohesion policy must be strengthened by better coordination of the structural funds and other instruments.
in writing. − the objective of the european union's (eu) cohesion policy is to end the economic and social disparities that still exist between the 271 regions of the 27 member states (ms). in fact, one in four regions has a gross domestic product per inhabitant below 75% of the eu average, with the peripheral and outermost regions having the lowest development rates. energy issues play a key role in the eusp and can make a significant contribution to regional development. regions traditionally considered to be lacking in resources, such as mountain areas, can develop if they know how to exploit their endogenous resources, particularly in the field of renewable energy. i would like to make a point here, however, to those areas of the natura network which are unable to take advantage of their natural resources, such as water, wind and forests, and which must be compensated for the prohibition on the exploitation of these resources. when the commission talks about finding solutions at regional level, it is necessary that the regions and local authorities are not prevented from making use of this opportunity.
in writing. - this report does not add value to the cohesion objectives because it links cohesion policy to the objectives of the neoliberal agenda of the eu 2020 strategy - objectives which have done nothing to contribute to real economic and social cohesion, quite the contrary! in this context, to bring into cohesion policy the intention of completing the internal energy market without barriers can only be a deplorable perversion. it is a reversal of the logic of the convergence objective, which in no way contributes to the necessary attack on the problem of energy poverty, to which the report itself refers, but which instead emphasises exclusion in access to these services - as the experience of liberalisation in other sectors has shown to the full. in this context, the importance of the structural and cohesion funds in achieving solidarity objectives between member states, combating energy poverty in the eu's less developed regions and in the most vulnerable households, which the report rightly points out, is unfortunately undermined by this subordination of cohesion policy objectives to european energy policy. for these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. − i agree that cohesion policy should be linked to the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to make progress towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and support the shift towards an efficient and low-carbon economy in all sectors. the structural funds and the cohesion fund are very important for achieving these short and long-term objectives, in line with the spirit of solidarity between member states enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and for tackling energy poverty in the eu's least developed regions and in the most vulnerable households. the negative effects of the crisis tend to increase local and regional disparities in europe, leading to the need for strong eu support for economic, social and territorial cohesion. i am sure that european energy projects can contribute to regional development and to the strengthening of crossborder cooperation by helping regions to increase their capacity to manage energy resources. investment in low-emission and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and other measures can help support growth and jobs at regional level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which presents a concept of energy at local and regional level. this is a very important issue, as it is a new dimension of energy policy, essential for the geostrategic interests of the union and for its independence and security. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to strengthen municipalities in the field of energy. often bureaucracy and lack of clarity in procedures make it difficult to access the structural funds and the cohesion fund and discourage the most needy actors, the regions, from applying for these funds, so that they contribute to a genuine regional development policy. future objectives after 2020 depend on the involvement of the regions. we cannot aim for energy performance improvements of 20% without involving all communities in a bottom-up policy rather than a centrally imposed one.
in writing. − cohesion policy aims to stimulate the harmonious development of the union as a whole, working towards the economic, social and territorial integration of europe's regions and seeking to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the most disadvantaged regions. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. diversification of energy supply, energy efficiency and the expansion of energy infrastructure can all contribute to regional development and the creation of more jobs. however, it is essential to appreciate the needs of the different regions of europe. different types of projects are needed for different regions: some require investment in building renovation (to maximise energy efficiency) while others lack basic communication networks (such as gas). i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the importance of regional authorities in the negotiation of agreements between the commission and the member states for the achievement of a new european energy policy with more effective projects that lead to the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy, as provided for in article 174 of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward a proposal entitled 'energy 2020 - a strategy for competitive, sustainable and secure energy' which has as its main objective to make the european continent increasingly self-sustaining and energy efficient. i would point out that energy-related emissions account for almost 80% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions and that, despite the importance of energy policy objectives, there are serious gaps in the implementation of european policies. i support this report which stresses the need for cohesion policy to be in line with the europe 2020 energy objectives and the seven flagship initiatives, exploiting the potential of research, development and innovation in the energy field. i also stress the importance of the new connecting europe facility as an additional and complementary instrument of cohesion policy which aims to respond to the high investment needs to modernise and extend europe's energy infrastructure, thus contributing to greater european connectivity and increased energy efficiency.
in writing. − this report does not add value to the cohesion objectives because it links cohesion policy to the objectives of the neoliberal agenda of the eu2020 strategy - objectives which have done nothing to contribute to real economic and social cohesion, quite the contrary. in this context, to bring the intention of completing the internal energy market 'without barriers' into cohesion policy can only be a deplorable perversion. it is a reversal of the logic of the convergence objective, which does not contribute in any way to the necessary attack on the problem of energy poverty, which the report itself refers to, but on the contrary emphasizes exclusion in access to these services - as the experience of liberalization in other sectors shows to the full. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that its aim is to go further on this issue, in particular by examining the obstacles identified in the resolution adopted by a large majority in the european parliament's plenary: moral hazard, legal constraints and possible additional costs for countries with a aaa rating. however, eurobonds are not a 'miracle cure' that allows the sector to avoid specific measures such as the creation of a resolution fund or a deposit guarantee fund. this is why it is now possible to outline a 'roadmap' linking all progress towards eurobonds on the one hand and fiscal stabilisation and economic convergence on the other, as the two processes must imperatively go hand in hand. it is our responsibility to take measures to eliminate market distortions and stabilise the euro area: if this situation persists, the very foundation of the european project, the harmony between citizens, will be affected. on the other hand, the continuation of this situation could also damage our credibility with third parties, as was shown at the last g8 meeting.
in writing. − the discussion around stability bonds was first brought up in the 1990s when the giovannini group published a report presenting a range of options for coordinating sovereign debt issuance in the euro area. the outbreak of the current crisis and the strong instability and speculation in the sovereign debt financial markets and the banking system have created large imbalances in the cost of financing of countries, generating increasing spreads between member states' debts. some member states have therefore been faced with financing costs that are so high that they cannot finance their process of growth, adjustment or rebalancing their debt levels. in this regard, it is urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore the normal financing of member states in financial markets, allow for more healthy and sustainable economic growth and support a stronger and more robust financial system to cope with future crises. the report proposes a wider discussion of this subject and calls on the european commission to make more concrete proposals, which i therefore support.
in writing. − the discussion around stability bonds was first put on the agenda in the 1990s when the giovannini group published a report presenting a range of options for coordinating sovereign debt issuance in the euro area. the outbreak of the current crisis and the strong instability and speculation in the sovereign debt financial markets and the banking system have created large imbalances in the cost of financing of countries, generating increasing spreads between member states' debts. some countries have therefore been faced with financing costs so high that they cannot finance their growth process, adjustment or rebalancing of their debt levels. in this regard, it is urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore the normal financing of member states in financial markets, allow for more healthy and sustainable economic growth and support a stronger and more robust financial system to cope with future crises. the report proposes a wider discussion of this subject and calls on the european commission to make more concrete proposals, and i therefore wholeheartedly support it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the issue of common bonds, which could send a strong signal to the financial markets and help preserve the integrity of economic and monetary union. this is a measure that should contribute to the return to economic stability and reduce uncertainty, provided that progress is supported by financial and budgetary integration through eu supervision.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis has forced us to look for all the mechanisms that can help stabilise the european economy. in this field, the interest in stability bonds has increased to such an extent that this is not the first time that parliament has spoken in favour of them. stability bonds can help make the euro area more stable and resilient to crisis situations such as the one we are experiencing. we need to create the conditions for europe to start a sustainable recovery and thus achieve economic and monetary union. i am aware of the difficulties involved in implementing the stability obligations. i am sorry that the vote was not more meaningful, but we could not wait any longer. although markets are beginning to show signs of recovery, unemployment remains high and the real economy needs stabilisation measures. the adoption of this own-initiative report is a show of solidarity and the implementation of eurobonds would bring confidence to the markets and would be a sign of a very strong and definitive commitment to the euro. i therefore voted in favour of the report by my colleague sylvie goulard on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds.
in writing. the resolution adopted endorses all the neoliberal dogmas which led to the creation of the euro and economic and monetary union (emu). it leads to the transfer of monetary policy from the national central banks to the ecb, which is falsely independent, without any democratic control and functioning and linked to the interests of the great powers, particularly germany. it supports the structural reforms, budgetary consolidation, the stability pact, the budgetary treaty and penalties for non-compliance. in other words, the resolution adopted endorses and supports the austerity measures and what they mean: unemployment, higher taxes and lower wages, cuts in social and labour rights, destruction of public services and privatisation of public enterprises, a setback in living conditions, the draining of national resources for the financial sector - the reference to the obligation to repay the member states' debt in full is significant. finally, this resolution endorses the increasingly undemocratic nature of the eu, by the loss of decision-making power by the power structures closest to the citizens and best controlled by them, the national parliaments, in areas such as national budgets or the issuing of public debt, according to the specific needs of each country.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i still have doubts about the goodness of the introduction of this form of state financing. i think that this possibility still needs a lot of study, and i do not agree that the most compliant states end up being responsible for paying the debts of the least compliant states. in view of my questions about eurobonds, i prefer at this stage to wait and see how this potential debt instrument develops in the future.
in writing. − stability bonds are a mechanism for coordinating sovereign debt issuance in the euro area. the strong instability and speculation that has been felt in the sovereign debt financial markets and the banking system has generated large imbalances in the cost of financing of countries, generating increasing spreads between the debts of member states. some countries have therefore been faced with financing costs so high that they cannot finance their growth process, adjustment or rebalancing of their debt levels. in this regard, it has become urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore the normal financing of member states in financial markets and that allow for more healthy and sustainable economic growth and support a stronger and more robust financial system to cope with future crises. i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a wider discussion of this subject and calls on the european commission to make more concrete proposals.
in writing. − the discussion around stability bonds first emerged in the 1990s, when the giovannini group published a report presenting a range of options for coordinating sovereign debt issuance in the euro area. the outbreak of the current crisis and the strong volatility and speculation in sovereign debt financial markets and the banking system have generated large imbalances in the cost of financing of countries, leading to increasing spreads between member states' debts. some countries have therefore been faced with such high financing costs that they are unable to finance their growth, adjustment and rebalancing of debt levels. in this regard, it is urgent to create stabilising mechanisms that restore normal financing of member states in financial markets, allow for the sustainment of healthy economic growth and support a strong and robust financial system able to cope with future crises. the present report proposes a thorough discussion of this subject and calls on the european commission to make concrete proposals in this regard. i voted in favour.
in writing. − currently, the costs of financing member states' public debt are very high in some countries, which does not allow them to finance themselves at reasonable rates, thus making it difficult to adjust macroeconomically and rebalance public debt levels. i agree with the assumption that there is a framework of stable public finances, budgetary balance and structural reforms, and i consider it essential to introduce stability obligations across the eu. i believe that the stability obligations will make a decisive contribution to promoting greater stability in the banking sector, in particular in the sovereign debt markets and the banking market, by lowering the cost of financing. this is very important for portugal because it will be able to finance itself at a lower cost and have access to cheaper capital to finance the economic growth and job creation that it so needs and desires.
in writing. the resolution adopted endorses all the neoliberal dogmas which led to the creation of the euro and economic and monetary union (emu). it leads to the transfer of monetary policy from the national central banks to the ecb, which is falsely independent, without any democratic control and functioning and linked to the interests of the great powers, particularly germany. it supports the structural reforms, budgetary consolidation, the stability pact, the budgetary treaty and penalties for 'non-compliance'. the resolution adopted endorses and supports the austerity measures in question, with the aim of blackmailing the member states: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, such as the introduction of a new system of taxation, the reduction of wages, the reduction of social and labour rights, the destruction of public services and the privatisation of public enterprises, the reduction of living conditions and the diversion of national resources to the financial sector. the reference to the compulsory repayment in full of the debt of the member states is inadmissible when the renegotiation of this debt is the only way to make economic growth possible. the resolution endorses the increasingly undemocratic nature of the eu, by the loss of decision-making power by the power structures closest to the citizens and best controlled by them, the national parliaments, in areas such as national budgets or the issuing of public debt, according to the specific needs of each country.
we have received information this week from a un envoy that 100,000 people may die in syria this year. we have the reports of the thousands and thousands of refugees that this conflict has already produced and there is no estimate for how many more refugees it will produce. we are talking about a warning that is dramatic but it is not just a warning, it is much more than that, it is an admission of failure by the international community, by the community of nations, which is extended to military organizations like nato, but it is also extended to political organizations, as is the case with the european union. and yet, what we see is that the situation in syria continues to deteriorate, accelerating, at the cost of the deaths of thousands and thousands of innocent civilians. this tragedy must be shared between the cruel and undemocratic regime of the al-assad family, with which the governments of several european countries have been very conniving allies for years, and internal groups that have been commanded from outside. the arab spring is long gone, the popular uprisings were ridden and then reduced to dust by political-military groups created, financed and armed from abroad that have little to do with democracy or human rights. at the moment, syria is not only being eroded by internal war but also by external intervention, and in this regard we cannot absolve the international powers and organisations of any blame, their interests and ambitions cannot take precedence over the needs of the syrian people for peace and stability. we must end the war once and for all. we know that the degradation of syria is of interest to some, but it is certainly not of interest to the syrian people. it is therefore time for the european union to have its own policy in favour of democracy and peace in the middle east, instead of continuing to pursue policies which, on both sides, are interfering opportunistically and mediatically in the complex chess game of the arab world. not only is the problem not being solved, but it may even be helping to spread it regionally. we must therefore, mr president, put an end to the killing and the humanitarian disaster.
the dramatic effects of external interventionism in libya are now clear, not only for libya but also for the destabilization it has brought to the north african region. the consequences of the aggressions in afghanistan and iraq are still very much alive. syria also remains a target of imperialism, with painful consequences for its people. we must also draw attention to the latest steps in the escalation of the war against turkey, with the installation of us patriot missiles in turkey, an operation which is being carried out with the help of american troops, as well as german and dutch troops. the european union has been silent on this, and israel is taking the opportunity to consolidate its occupation of the golan heights. we are once again expressing our solidarity with the syrian people in demanding respect for their sovereignty and independence against external aggression. these are dangerous times we live in. the war trumpets that are sounding from a europe in deep crisis demand that the flag of the struggle for peace, against militarism and war, be raised high and high.
mr president, in 2008 i drafted a report on the eu’s role in iraq, and i see this report and the adoption of the partnership and cooperation agreement as the natural development of that agreement. i wanted to get us out of this confinement and of our divisions of the past, and i mean not just the war and the invasion but at the time when the eu governments were supporting saddam. it is often quite frustrating to see that over this time there have been a lot of obstacles, because even here in this parliament, even in the delegation on iraq, there are people who maintain these prejudices, who keep for instance raising the question of camp ashraf (i want the problem of the people in camp ashraf to be sorted out) as an obstacle to the development of relations with iraq. this is about iran, it is not about iraq, and i hope that our colleague stevenson, who chairs the delegation on iraq, will, as a result of what he has said, take the consequences if this report is adopted and will step down from the chairmanship of the delegation for iraq. i believe this agreement is very important to actually enable us to do more for iraq in terms of what everyone has said that we need, namely the rule of law, democratic governance, human rights and women’s rights. the last time i was in iraq i attended a wonderful meeting of more than 300 iraqi women in erbil. there is a lot of work to be done. it is a fight about corruption, it is democratic governance, and the iraqis are open to that. we have been the ones missing, although there has been some good work done by eujust lex and our delegation in iraq. i would like to see our delegation in iraq more autonomous, with their own premises; not having to be bound by the british security rules but able to move around and to work in erbil and in basra as much as in baghdad. iraq is enormous, it is diverse and there are different possibilities to work. i do not discount the tremendous strategic implication of iraq for the region and the implications for the iraqi security and political situation of big neighbours such as iran and saudi arabia, as well as the conflict in syria. so in order to overcome the problems of understanding what is going on in iraq – it is not on the iraqi side that there has been a failure to show a clear interest in interacting with us – i hope that the mission from parliament that is due to go to iraq soon will go and, on the basis of this agreement, will develop a much more intensive personal relationship with our iraqi colleagues. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – as you are probably aware, i have often gone to iraq. i was not able to go on that mission last year, but i am scheduled to go on the next one. i am probably one of the members of this parliament who has been most often to iraq. i know the reality. i am not discounting the tremendous security implications and problems in terms of human rights, governance, the rule of law, inter-ethnic tension and religious tension, but i believe that it is by interacting with iraqis that we can better know the situation, not follow the lines that often come here, that are too excessive, and to actually improve our relations with iraq and help the iraqis move forward.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, as the european union is the main customer of bangladeshi clothing, we have particular reason to be concerned about the poor working conditions of the workers who make this clothing. giving the european union the most generous trade preferences to bangladesh, which enable it to be competitive in the global market, we have every right and also the duty to demand that such disasters cannot continue to happen. we obviously welcome the response measures taken by the bangladeshi authorities, in particular the assistance to the families of the victims, the investigation into the causes of the fire and its regrettable consequences, the inspection of the factories against fire. but that's not enough! we must demand from the government of bangladesh guarantees that such situations will not happen, that the legislation is actually complied with, that the labour inspectorate is given the means to carry out its task, that employers and inspectorates guilty of breaching these duties are held accountable and punished. but the blame for this situation is shared by european importing companies which exploit the low wages and the dependency of the poorer countries and which turn a blind eye to the unacceptable working conditions in the companies from which they import their products instead of demanding minimum acceptable labour standards. we must once again require our companies to respect the principles and obligations of corporate social responsibility and if they do not work as soft law we must give them the teeth of hard law. the dignity of work and the lives of workers are at stake.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have some numbers here: olaf referred 647 cases to national courts in 2011; of these 647 cases, 281 were rejected by national courts, of the remainder only 41% resulted in convictions. so we're talking about a very small number of convictions. no one can believe that in europe, where only in money laundering alone some 2% to 2.5% of european gdp, according to various estimates, disappears in money laundering, we have only 647 cases of corruption and half of them rejected by the national courts. this is clearly inappropriate. i support, as the commissioner has said, the creation of a european public prosecutor, but it must also be set up with transparency and rigor. it cannot be as it is now that olaf, for this misery of investigated cases, nevertheless has the power to conduct telephone tapping without any judicial warrant, which is clearly excessive. and so we have, once again, a half-baked policy in our union, with some very exaggerated aspects and others basically laughable, and therefore very asymmetrical. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council for approval. we need banks to do their due diligence in knowing who the ultimate beneficiaries of their accounts are and to end this shame of biome after biome, where accounts are held by companies that are owned by companies that are owned by companies, and we don't actually know who is buying assets in european territory, some of them very important. but we also need, and here i ask the commission to do so, we also need to help society to fight corruption, because, for example, investigative journalism is currently in crisis because of the technological changes and the business model of journalism - just a moment, mr president - and needs to be supported because without decent investigative journalism we don't know who is corrupting and being corrupted.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr stadler, i would like to know what you base your accusations on, country by country, as you have done here. how can you say that in portugal, for example, there is corruption and that nothing has been done to combat unemployment? you come from a country which is the only country from which a member of this parliament has been imprisoned for four years for accepting corruption in this parliament. i think it is quite right that corruption is alleged in any country in europe, but, mind you, all countries under the european treaties, which you accept as a member of this house, have equal dignity. and i cannot accept the kind of statements and accusations that you make, country by country, and generalizations. if there are cases of corruption in portugal, for example, why don't you look for submarines that were sold by man ferrostaal, a german company? what kind of xenophobia is this inside this house? this is totally unacceptable!
in the middle east, weapons of mass destruction may be controlled today by governments, including those legitimated by elections, but tomorrow they will fall into the hands of other actors, namely non-governmental actors, who make terror their way of life. in addition to the iranian nuclear programme, which is a matter of concern to the international community and the european union in particular, because it is fuelling the nuclear race in the neighbourhood, other alarms are ringing. just today, commissioner georgieva was here referring to the threat of the use of chemical weapons from the arsenal still controlled by assad, and last october a drone, allegedly iranian, was shot down by the israeli armed forces as it prepared to fly over dimona, allegedly to photograph a nuclear reactor at that israeli military facility. the postponement of the international conference scheduled for finland last december to establish a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east is therefore worrying, and is a sign of the reluctance or inability to force regional actors to find solutions to the proliferation of weapons. it is essential that the european union, which has had this objective on the agenda since the barcelona conference in 1995, should work to promote this conference and this objective, because the success and effectiveness of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and other weapons of mass destruction also depend on it. we need active diplomacy with the regional actors, both to monitor the negotiations on the iranian nuclear programme and to persuade israel to accept international verification of its nuclear installations and, of course, to bring about an end to the syrian civil war as soon as possible and without any greater human cost. the dangers and benefits are not just regional. the success or failure of the imposition of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east will certainly be felt in the neighbouring regions and in particular, of course, in europe. we all know the consequences of nuclear or chemical or biological weapons but the point is that these weapons know no borders, so it is also for our security that we must push for this conference and put it on the agenda in 2013.
there are questions that remain unanswered. the european union has decided to impose sanctions on iran, justifying them by the danger of the country developing nuclear weapons. this is the opposite of a diplomatic solution to the dispute over the country's nuclear programme. israel is the only country in the region with a proven large nuclear arsenal. israeli officials have refused to attend the un conference on a middle east free of nuclear weapons. such a refusal came in the wake of threats made by senior israeli officials to start a war against iran. the israeli state is also violating international law and un resolutions by deepening its occupation of palestine and oppression of the palestinian people. israel is nevertheless considered a privileged partner of the european union, with which it has signed numerous agreements, particularly on trade. there are, therefore, questions that remain unanswered. why would you do that? how is this policy of double standards justified? why is the nuclear argument used to determine sanctions against a country, and is it ignored when concluding agreements with israel?
in writing. the number of passengers travelling by air has been increasing by an average of 4.5% per year, making it necessary and urgent to review the existing rules on the protection of air passengers' rights in order to strengthen the existing level of legal certainty and create greater uniformity of application across the eu. the legal framework for the protection of these rights should ensure a minimum level of consumer protection that is resistant to the evolution of commercial practices of air carriers, in particular the introduction of restrictive measures such as the 'one-volume hand baggage' rule, the specification of essential and non-essential items and other restrictions on the admission of cabin baggage. the commission should examine the feasibility and practicability of creating a single legislative instrument that includes all provisions and principles on consumer rights in civil aviation in order to reduce fragmentation, inconsistencies and excessive restrictions. the necessary measures should therefore be introduced to harmonise commercial practice on hand baggage, protecting passengers from excessive restrictions and allowing them to bring on board a reasonable amount of hand baggage, including purchases made in airport shops.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. at the end of 2005, the european commission presented a draft regulation introducing the compulsory origin marking scheme for certain products imported from third countries. the objectives of this proposal were, first, to prevent the use of false or misleading marks of origin, to improve consumer information on the origin of certain products, and to put european products on an equal footing with their trading partners, in particular canada, china, japan and the united states of america, which already require imported products to bear origin labels. the european parliament has always supported the creation of the mandatory origin marking scheme, as indicated in its resolutions adopted in 2006 and 2009. it is therefore not surprising that in october 2010, already under the new legislative powers in trade matters arising from the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament adopted a position at first reading on the draft european commission regulation on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries with 529 votes in favour, 49 against and 44 abstentions. subsequently, and despite repeated requests from parliament, the council failed to adopt a common position, effectively blocking the legislative process. recently, in a surprising twist, the commission announced that it would withdraw the regulation currently in force in 2003, claiming that the decision of the world trade organisation panel on the country of origin labelling case for beef and pigmeat had changed the world trade organisation's case law and consequently made the original proposal for a made in regulation incompatible with wto rules. so we ask: firstly, why does the commission choose to withdraw the proposal instead of proposing the necessary amendments to make the regulation compatible with the wto, including, if necessary, a new legal basis to be adopted by the co-legislators under the current procedure during the second reading or in possible trilogues; secondly, does the commission not consider that, in the spirit of good interinstitutional cooperation and respect for the european citizens represented by the adoption of the regulation by a large majority of parliament, it should have consulted parliament and allowed sufficient time for discussion before announcing the withdrawal? does the commission consider that the withdrawal of the regulation is in the general interest of the european union? thirdly, what elements of the original proposal or the text of the proposal adopted by parliament at first reading are no longer compatible with the wto and why? following the wto panel and the appellate body decisions, what is the commission's position on the mandatory origin marking schemes required by many other countries for imported products, such as brazil, canada and the united states? fourthly, and last but not least, what concrete measures does the commission intend to take to ensure the indication of origin and thus the traceability of products imported from third countries in the single market, at least in the sectors already covered by the regulation? what's the timetable? finally, and with that i conclude, does the commission intend to submit a new proposal for this regulation in accordance with the new wto rules and, if so, when?
madam president, commissioner, the turnaround in this process reveals once again the true position and role of the commission. we must stand with those who have always opposed the use of origin labels, and defend those who benefit from the deregulation and liberalization of world trade, namely the large importers and the large european distributors. the rhetoric of free choice, of informing citizens, of transparency, is conveniently put aside now that higher values are rising. we have defended and valued the possibility of the existence of origin marking, considering it, among other things, as an instrument for the protection of jobs in europe, an instrument against social and environmental dumping, an instrument, and only this, which does not require a profound change in the economic and trade policies in force, which requires the treatment of some issues relating to the geographical complexity of the production chains, which are in any case not insurmountable. we will continue to fight against this protectionism of the big interests, which is contrary to the general collective interest, to the interest of workers and of millions of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new trade policy. the text is as follows: trade negotiations with mercosur were officially relaunched at the eu-mercosur summit in 2010, after several years of interruption. the aim is to negotiate a comprehensive trade agreement. since then, however, nine rounds of negotiations have taken place. the round has so far focused on the regulatory part of the agreement, with no date set for the exchange of market access offers, without which there will be no real negotiation. can the commission give a detailed account of the state of play of the trade negotiations between the european union and mercosur, more than two years after the formal resumption of negotiations? can the commission identify the main obstacles to the negotiations? can the commission explain the main objectives and outlook for the next eu-mercosur ministerial summit, scheduled for the end of january 2013 in santiago, chile? this is the text of the question. let me now make a few additional remarks on my responsibility. the european union is mercosur's main trading partner, accounting for 20% of the bloc's total trade, and is also the largest investor in the region, with a current stock of foreign direct investment of over eur 200 billion. mercosur is the union's eighth trading partner. union exports to the region have been steadily increasing in recent years, from 28 billion in 2007 to 45 billion in 2011, a remarkable increase! so all the studies indicate that it makes perfect sense to try a trade agreement between the european union and mercosur because the growth potential of both sides is obvious. yet this dossier seems cursed from the start. negotiations began more than a decade ago but were suspended a few years later when it became clear that there were no conditions for success. resumed in 2010 under the spanish presidency of the council, they now seem to be paralysed again. there have always been opponents on both sides of these negotiations, but recent developments on the mercosur side seem to make everything more difficult. protectionist measures and the announcement of the accession of countries clearly opposed to the international opening up of mercosur do not bode well for the prospects of that bloc's opening up. mercosur seems to want to become an economy turned inward, without participating in the movement for the liberalization of international trade. in latin america there seems to be a dividing line corresponding to the andes at the moment, and while mexico, latin america, colombia, peru and chile have shown their openness to trade, particularly with the european union, with which they all have trade treaties at the moment, mercosur, brazil, argentina and the other mercosur countries are clearly still outside this movement of trade opening and the current difficulties and the current paralysis of negotiations with the european union seem to herald the closing of the prospects for these negotiations. the question is that we wanted the commission to clarify this parliament, and this question has no hidden proposal, no hidden agenda, it is just for it to clarify for us what its point of view is, whether it makes sense to continue these negotiations, whether there is still any hope that they will come to a successful conclusion and whether the union can do anything to change the data on the table and to bring about a real change of perspective on the part of our mercosur partners so that these negotiations can have some outcome. otherwise we are simply maintaining the illusion that things can change and spending resources which the commission and the union have no means of spending. commissioner, this is a discussion that is important to the union, it is important to mercosur and i think we should take it very seriously.
mr president, commissioner, trade in the abstract can be an instrument of support for development, economic growth and job creation, but it can, conversely, in the case of free and unregulated trade, be a factor of job destruction, economic and social backwardness, environmental destruction. the ambition to open up the mercosur market to world competition, despite some contradictions, has never been hidden by the major european economic groups and their representatives and advocates at political and institutional level. they are exasperated by what they call the protectionism of some countries in the region. they are not used to dealing with governments that do not give up their sovereignty and independence, governments that defend the interests of their people, not by subjugating them to the interests of capital. these countries are now correcting the neoliberal policies which led them to economic and social disaster, the same policies which you are imposing in europe, with the known results, on the one hand protectionism for the rich and powerful, on the other the sovereign defence of the interests of the peoples and their right to development. there is no compromise possible in this confrontation!
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr vital moreira, chairman of the inta committee, on his opening statement in this debate, which has completely changed my mind. i think we can all agree on the need to promote greater integration between the different regional blocs at the international level and what this means in terms of stability, peace and security on the international scene. we must not forget, however, that in the case of mercosur, the dynamics created have a positive effect on some sectors and a clear negative effect on others. when i talk about effects, i mean the impact it can have on people, on their right to work and to a decent life, and to be clearer, i give the example of agriculture in europe. while studies suggest that the agro-industrial sector may benefit from some of the effects, this is not the case for farmers producing primary products, although there may be some exceptions, such as wine or olive oil. on the mercosur side there are also threats to its industrial sector. i therefore call on the commission to take due account of the resolution which the european parliament is certain to vote by a large majority and which reflects in a realistic and constructive way the concerns and the aspirations which the impact of the european union's relationship with mercosur may have for all of us.
free trade agreements can make an important contribution to economic dynamism, job creation and wealth generation. unfortunately, however, farming has too often served as a bargaining chip for good deals in services and industry. also in the case of the potential agreement between the european union and mercosur, the 2011 impact study of the european commission showed the damage it would bring to agriculture in europe. this is a situation which must be denounced and rejected, for the sake of european farmers, whose incomes are falling and whose production is threatened, but also for the sake of the whole agri-food industry, which benefits from the production of the internal market, and also for the sake of consumers, who have the guarantee of food quality and hygiene, as well as compliance with environmental and animal welfare rules. these losses are aggravated in vulnerable regions and in relation to sensitive products, such as meat production in the azores. it should also be stressed that the maintenance of a strong european agriculture guarantees the food independence of the european union, which is absolutely fundamental from the point of view of political strategy. these aspects must be taken into account when negotiations are resumed.
the commission cannot ignore, or fail to take into account in these negotiations, the recommendations of parliament, adopted in the march 2011 resolution on agriculture in the european union and international trade, which the motion for a resolution now before us on mercosur unfortunately omits. agriculture has a strategic role to play in europe and cannot be the easy bargaining chip for concessions on access to international markets. the union's trade deficit in agricultural products, which has already exceeded eur 7 billion, cannot continue to worsen and threaten our food security and activity in more and more rural areas of the european union. the commission should therefore reassess the concessions already made and their impacts, including their territorial effects, by carrying out specific impact assessments, as agreed as necessary in regions such as the azores in the recent posei negotiations.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, which contains a recommendation to accompany the resolution in which the european parliament highlighted the main concerns in cooperation with iraq, in particular as regards the nation building process in iraq and the european union's assistance in the process. however, i also express my concern about camp liberty in iraq, which is not mentioned in this resolution, and which in my view should be mentioned as a serious concern, but it is necessary that these iranians be part of a process that gives legitimacy and credibility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 'eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement' because i believe that it should help to lay the foundations for a regular political dialogue to support iraq's development and structural reforms, particularly with regard to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - several years after the fall of saddam hussein's regime, iraq is still facing many difficulties in its efforts to stabilise and institutionalize the rule of law. unfortunately, this country is no longer in the news, not because the violence has ended, but because it has spread so far that the acts that are being committed there are no longer news. the christian minority has been suffering particularly from persecution and attacks that are perfectly unjustified. the european union must support the iraqi efforts and demonstrate by deeds and on the ground the level of its commitment so that it can have an appropriate and positive influence on the course of events in that country. the partnership and cooperation agreement reflects this will and is a sign of the seriousness of european intentions. i hope that its implementation will help to bring peace and progress to the iraqi people and will allow new forms of communication and knowledge to be created between iraq and the european union.
in writing. - iraq has been in a very difficult situation while it was subject to the atrocities perpetrated by saddam hussein. the international community has succeeded in overthrowing the current regime and moving the country towards democracy. yet, a country with diverse ethnic and religious beliefs is not easy to unify, especially when ancestral practices clash with human rights. the challenge facing iraq at the moment is to consolidate peace and establish a democratic regime that respects fundamental freedoms and human rights. the eu, as a humanitarian donor, has an increased responsibility in political and financial support. i therefore welcome the conclusion of a partnership agreement between the eu and iraq, which should help iraq to respect the eu's values and principles. after iraq's accession to the international criminal court, this agreement could catalyse its accession to the world trade organisation, which will bring great benefits not only to iraq but to all wto members. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is an opportunity for the sharing of democratic practices to be implemented in the young iraqi democracy where there is still some violence against women and minorities.
in writing. the aggression against iraq, led by the usa and britain, with the complicity of the eu, justified on the basis of false arguments and false alleged evidence of the existence of weapons of mass destruction, decided sadly in portugal at the lajes summit, with durão barroso playing the role for which, since then and until today, he has shown undeniable appetite - that of the butler of the great powers - all this is absent from this resolution. the occupation of this country, the murders, violence and ill-treatment of the people by the aggressor and occupying forces, the barbaric bombings (such as in falluja) with chemical weapons, which have killed and will continue to kill and cause serious illnesses in adults and children, are also absent. this assault must be condemned. however, we cannot but express our disagreement with a possible legal treatment of the aggression suffered by the iraqi people by the icc. the icc has been demonstrating the reason for our disagreement with regard to its establishment, objectives and operation. its instrumental character, at the service of a justice of the victors, of imperialism, was demonstrated by the aggression and destruction of yugoslavia, in which the main aggressors, nato, never sat in the dock.
in writing. − since 2005, the republic of iraq has held three multiparty elections, adopted a constitution by referendum, laid the foundations of a federal state and made efforts to build democratic institutions, rebuild and normalise. there is no doubt that europe and iraq are bound together by thousands of years of mutual cultural influences and a common history. it should be noted that on 21 december 2010 all iraqi political forces agreed to the formation of a government of national unity that would respond to the aspirations expressed by the iraqi people in the elections of 7 march 2010. however, this agreement has not yet been implemented by the iraqi government, and the absence of implementation is contributing to the fragility and fragmentation of iraq. the political and trade provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement thus create the basis for closer regular political dialogue on issues of bilateral, regional and global importance, while aiming to improve the agreements governing trade between iraq and the eu, supporting iraq's development and reform efforts in order to facilitate the country's integration into the world economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement which welcomes the establishment, through the partnership and cooperation agreement, of the parliamentary cooperation committee, which should provide a forum for the meeting and exchange of views between the iraqi parliament and the european parliament, and should be informed of the recommendations of the cooperation council and in turn make recommendations to the latter. i therefore supported this important parliamentary dimension because i considered that the commission would provide a valuable opportunity for democratic dialogue.
in writing. the european parliament supports the conclusion of this partnership and cooperation agreement, but calls on the union to pay particular attention to the particularities of a country which, despite its ancestral roots, is only now implementing a democratic regime. a country where unemployment is a social scourge, where basic services and goods have not yet reached the entire population. where insecurity and bombs continue to be a daily problem and fear of ethnic and religious minorities a reality. i would like to stress the importance of the human rights clause and the importance of conditionality, in accordance with the principle of 'more for more'. it is also important that the union should provide financial and technical support to the country by providing training for society in the various areas of public life. the opening of the union delegation in baghdad is a major step. we must not forget the crisis affecting neighbouring countries, in particular syria, which could increase instability in the country due to the number of refugees and displaced persons entering iraq. finally, i would like to stress the importance of integrating iraq into international bodies in order to bring its institutions into line with the multilateral system, in particular the wto and others.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. just as the murders, violence and ill-treatment of the people by the aggressor and occupying forces are absent, so are the barbaric bombings (falluja) with chemical weapons which have killed and will continue to kill and cause serious illnesses in adults and children. the violation of the sovereignty of the iraqi people and the denial of their right to self-determination and to the use and control of their natural resources are turning iraq into a country colonized by imperialism. however, we cannot but stress our disagreement with any possible legal treatment of the aggression suffered by the iraqi people by the icc. the icc has been demonstrating the reason for our disagreement with regard to its establishment, objectives and operation. on the one hand, because of the legal confusion it has created in relation to its powers and the violation of national sovereignty it is promoting, and because of the instrumental role it has assumed in the service of imperialism, as was demonstrated by the aggression and destruction of yugoslavia, in which the main aggressors, nato, have never been held responsible.
in writing. - i approve this recommendation, considering that the present agreement between the european union and iraq is of historic character. it comes at a crucial time to monitor iraq's transition to democracy over the next few years as the country addresses the challenges of reconstruction and development, the restoration of iraqi sovereignty and the normalisation of the country within the international community. the eu, together with the iraqi people and authorities, who will face numerous challenges, must be fully committed to the security and stability of the country as a primary concern. however, there is still a risk of losing control of the situation or of a return to civil war, with religious minorities, notably the christian minority, facing the greatest threat. national reconciliation must therefore be a priority for both iraqi political leaders and the international community. a democratic, stable, pluralistic iraq, committed to the socioeconomic development of its citizens and endowed with strong democratic institutions, will play a leading role in the stability of a region crucial to international security. this requires a long-term strategic vision, which should guide the union's policy towards iraq for the coming years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the 'proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement' because it should help to lay the foundations for a regular political dialogue to support iraq's development and structural reforms, in particular with regard to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - for some years, the union was divided over its support for us military intervention in that country and its interpretation of how best to establish democracy and human rights there in a lasting way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. given its geostrategic importance and the suffering of its people, iraq cannot be left out of european concerns, but must be the subject of joint efforts. the approval of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and iraq is an important sign of this european will to be involved and to participate.
in writing. - iraq has been in a very difficult situation while it was subject to the atrocities perpetrated by the dictator saddam hussein. the international community, led by the united states of america, has succeeded in overthrowing the current regime and putting the country on the road to democracy. yet, a country with diverse ethnic and religious beliefs is not easy to unify, especially when ancestral practices clash with human rights. the challenge facing iraq at the moment is enormous: consolidating peace and establishing a democratic regime that respects fundamental freedoms and human rights. the recommendation we have just voted on, by mr mauro, concerns the partnership and cooperation agreement (acp) between the european union (eu) and iraq. in a social context where unemployment is at 30% and where inter-ethnic strife persists, this agreement can be considered historic and favours a package of support for iraqi development. i voted in favour of this report because i am aware of the importance of a democratic and peaceful iraq for the stability of the region. the conclusion of the eu-iraq acp is therefore a cornerstone of this process. it should, however, include clauses on respect for human rights and protection of the most vulnerable groups: children, women and ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing. - by signing this agreement, the european powers intend to seize their share of iraq's natural resources, particularly its oil resources. it makes clearer, if need be, the objectives of the aggression. the signing of this agreement is part of the imperialist offensive to re-colonize, which, as in iraq, continues to target regions with a high concentration of natural resources, raw materials and energy routes. it is of little importance that iraq remains a country at war and under de facto occupation; that its people are denied the right to sovereignty and self-determination in accordance with their aspirations and interests of economic and social development. in iraq, as in the entire middle east region, imperialism does not hesitate to use the most sordid means to achieve its goals, including terrorist attacks, coups d'état, alliances with obscurantist and neo-fascist forces, the promotion of political-religious powers and various counterrevolutionary forces of different ideological backgrounds - all in accordance with the goal of imperialist domination, redrawing borders and reorganizing sectoral markets, in particular the energy market with its oil and natural gas resources and its transport routes.
in writing. - i am convinced that the approval of this partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and iraq will contribute to the development of iraq and represents a greater commitment by the eu to the future of that country. it should be noted that for some years the eu was somewhat aloof from iraq; i am therefore pleased to see a new commitment in eu-iraq relations with the approval of this agreement. given its geostrategic importance and the great suffering its people have already suffered, iraq cannot remain outside the european concerns, but must be the subject of joint efforts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in the belief that the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of iraq is an important step towards eu collaboration in the transition in iraq, which is properly framed and agreed between the parties. the european union's commitments must be translated into the mobilization of human and financial resources consistent with the political ambitions proclaimed therein.
in writing. − this partnership and cooperation agreement is a historic step towards the opening of relations between the european union and iraq at a time when the country needs the support of the international community for the establishment of a genuine democratic state, where the rule of law must be the basis of national cohesion. the agreement, which is renewable for 10 years, is based on three areas: political, economic and cooperation in the field of social and human development. it is essential that iraq join the international criminal court with the support of the union. on the other hand, the fight against terrorism and the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is also a central objective of the eu. the question of human rights and their conditionality is of the utmost importance in an iraq where sectarian wars are a reality. finally, i would like to stress the need for cooperation in social development programmes to improve the quality of life of people in one of the poorest countries in the world. basic access to health, education and employment are the key to the harmonious development of this country.
in writing. - with the signing of this agreement, the eu intends to seize a share of iraq's natural resources, particularly its oil resources. the signing of this agreement is part of the imperialist offensive to re-colonize, which, as in iraq, continues to target regions with a high concentration of natural resources, raw materials and energy routes. the majority of meps are not concerned that iraq remains a country in a state of war and de facto occupation and that its people are denied the right to sovereignty and self-determination in accordance with their aspirations and interests of economic and social development. in iraq, as in the entire middle east region, imperialism has not hesitated to use the worst instruments to achieve its goals, including terrorist attacks, coups d'état, alliances with neo-fascist forces, the promotion of political-religious powers and various counter-revolutionary forces of different ideological backgrounds all in function of imperialist domination, redrawing borders and reorganizing sectoral markets, in particular the energy market with its oil and natural gas resources and its transportation routes.
in writing. - i support this resolution, as i believe that this interim economic partnership agreement will allow all four countries in west and southern africa to continue to benefit from 100% duty and quota exemption in accessing the european union market. this agreement is relevant as it is the first of its kind in africa. however, it is necessary to continue to call for the serious human rights situation in zimbabwe and to point out that i agree that this agreement should be accompanied by a resolution, which would increase expectations for further political and social reforms in zimbabwe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the application of the epa between the european community and the states of eastern and southern africa in the light of the current situation in zimbabwe, because i regret the absence of a human rights clause in this agreement, in particular in view of the worrying situation of human rights violations in zimbabwe.
in writing. - zimbabwe has shown in recent years that it is finally on the road to economic, social and human development. the entry into force of the human rights commission act in zimbabwe is a measure which gives us hope that this country intends to work from now on to mitigate situations of human rights violations. the eu supports and will continue to support the government in harare. however, until the country's path towards sustainable development is consolidated, the suspension of eu development cooperation (under article 96 of the cotonou agreement) should be maintained, although the eu is committed to supporting the zimbabwean people.
in writing. - the proposal concerns the implementation of an economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european community and the states of eastern and southern africa in the light of the current situation in zimbabwe; a provisional epa has been in force since 14 may 2012 between madagascar, mauritius, seychelles and zimbabwe, on the one hand, and the eu, on the other. it is an agreement aimed at 'supporting regional integration through trade development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of acp economies into the world economy'. zimbabwe, a beneficiary country under this agreement despite the entry into force of the human rights commission act which is a step forward in improving the human rights situation still has many violations of fundamental rights and guarantees. the government of national unity of zimbabwe continues to persecute journalists and the civilian population. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because, given that elections are due to be held this year, zimbabwe must be given an opportunity to gain international credibility by respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. − this is the first interim economic partnership agreement (epa) with countries in the african region to enter into force. the epas are part of the eu's push to force african countries to sign the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas), despite their numerous resistance. in this resolution, parliament welcomed the agreement, considering that the epas are a step forward for african countries and for the promotion of fair and open trade, investment and regional integration. anyway, the usual rhetoric. parliament's concern about the signing of this agreement is linked to the lack of democratic transparency and human rights abuses in zimbabwe. but as for the rest, and despite this, the maxim that prevails is the same as always: business as usual. nothing is said about the harmful effects of free trade, the appropriation by multinational companies of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in unemployment, the weakening of small-scale and family farming and the threats to food sovereignty and security. while rejecting this resolution, we express here our full solidarity with the people of zimbabwe and the other peoples of east and southern africa for their right to development, sovereignty and independence.
in writing. - zimbabwe has shown signs of wanting to embark on the path of economic, social and human development. with the coming into force of the zimbabwe human rights commission act, there is hope that the continuing human rights violations will disappear. we must continue to support the political leaders in harare. however, as long as zimbabwe does not comply with article 96 of the cotonou agreement, we must suspend our development cooperation, while at the same time continuing to provide support to the most deprived people in zimbabwe.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the interim economic partnership agreement between the european community and the states of eastern and southern africa, in the light of the current situation in zimbabwe, considers the provisional entry into force of the interim economic partnership agreement to be positive. i voted in favour of this entry into force as an important step towards consolidating the partnership between the eu and the four african countries concerned within a stable legal framework which will allow negotiations to continue with a view to a full-fledged agreement capable of fostering open and fair trade, investment and regional integration.
in writing. the agreement aims to guarantee access to the european single market for the republic of mauritius, the republic of madagascar, the republic of seychelles and the republic of zimbabwe through a system of exemption from quotas and tariffs on exports from these countries. this economic partnership agreement between the eu and the four countries referred to above is an instrument of economic development tailored to their needs and to their economic capacities. however, human rights violations continue to occur in zimbabwe, calling into question the international commitment made by the government of national unity. it should be noted that the human rights violations were carried out by the government itself. i therefore join the rapporteurs in urging the zimbabwean government to comply with its international obligations, or else the eu institutions, with the support of the european parliament, will suspend development cooperation with the country. i also support all the measures taken by the eu to respond to the human rights violations that have occurred in this southern african country. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i approve the recommendation, considering that in 2000, the acp states and the eu agreed to establish new trade agreements compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation to replace the unilateral trade preferences regime applied by the eu to imports from the acp countries, which was then in force. under the cotonou agreement, the integration of the acp states into the world economy, the promotion of their sustainable development and the creation of more effective regional markets with predictable and stable standards are the cornerstones of this approach. these new agreements will be based on eu development cooperation, which aims to strengthen the acp states' institutional and production capacities and to support the necessary adaptation processes. since the epas aim to develop and strengthen regional integration processes in the acp states, negotiations were held at regional level with six regional epa groupings defined by the acp states themselves. since then, cariforum has been the only regional group to sign a full epa. i therefore believe that this recommendation should be taken into account when we conclude an economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the 'interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the ec'. i regret, however, the absence of a human rights clause and a chapter on sustainable development and international environmental and labour rights requirements.
in writing. − the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement (epa) between the states of eastern and southern africa should be seen as a pillar in economic relations between the eu and that region. like my colleague daniel caspary, i believe that the signing of the interim epa is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and highlights the importance of continuing negotiations towards a comprehensive agreement that will promote trade, investment and integration in the region.
in writing. − on 14 may 2012, an interim economic partnership agreement (epa) entered into force between madagascar, mauritius, the seychelles and zimbabwe, on the one hand, and the eu, on the other. it is an agreement aimed at 'supporting regional integration through trade development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of acp economies into the world economy'. the main objective of this apep is to promote the integration of the regional economy into the world economy and to support the development of these countries. in view of the situation in some countries, notably zimbabwe, with regard to the violation of human rights and fundamental guarantees, governments should be alerted to the existence of safeguard clauses providing for the suspension of the agreement in the event of a violation of human rights. i voted in favour of the recommendation drawn up by my colleague daniel caspary, not only because it promotes trade relations between the eu and these four countries in eastern and southern africa, but also because i believe it is a fundamental step towards promoting free trade and the implementation of democratic regimes that function normally, without corruption or fraud and with respect for human rights.
in writing. the report also stresses that the eu's economic partnership agreements (epas) are based on eu development cooperation, which aims to strengthen the acp states' institutional and production capacities and support the necessary adaptation processes. the fact that few acp countries have ratified them to date will be contrary to the good intentions expressed, as well as to the claims that these agreements support regional integration. our position is well known and we reiterate it here, namely that we are opposed to the epas, which are genuine free trade agreements that the eu wants to impose by force, using blackmail if necessary, as it has shown on several occasions. the edf itself is once again being used as a blackmail weapon at a time when its financial volume for 2014-2020 is being discussed. the desired opening up of markets is of course in the interests of the large european economic groups, which want to sell goods and services, exploit raw materials and impose an export-oriented production model in their own interests. this epa will have serious consequences for small farmers and workers in europe and africa and for development objectives in general. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement (epa) between the eastern and southern african states and the ec is an important step towards the further deepening of economic relations between these two regions. it is also the beginning of a path that will lead to more sustainable growth in this region, as well as to a future comprehensive agreement that will foster trade, investment and integration in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in the belief that the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the states of eastern and southern africa and the european union is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and an impetus for the continuation of negotiations towards a comprehensive agreement that will promote trade, investment and integration in the region.
in writing. the rapporteur suggests that the provisional agreement be adopted, reinforcing the partnership between the signatory states, bringing it into line with the rules of the world trade organisation and replacing the unilateral system which gave the acp countries preferential access to eu markets on a non-reciprocal basis. the agreement now provides not only for access to exports by the acp countries but also for the gradual opening up of their markets to european exports in the coming years. this interim contractual relationship achieves greater legal certainty, which is essential for improving the trade and investment climate in the eastern and southern african states. in line with the objectives of the cotonou agreement, this interim agreement seeks to promote sustainable development and the creation of more effective regional markets, which can only be achieved by reducing and eventually eradicating poverty through predictable and stable standards.
in writing. − this agreement is of great importance given that it is the first time that the eu has signed a bilateral agreement of a regional nature on the african continent, thus promoting its regional economic integration. the aim of the agreement is to grant access to the european single market to the republic of mauritius, the republic of madagascar, the republic of seychelles and the republic of zimbabwe through a system of exemption from quotas and tariffs on exports from these countries. in contrast, the african countries involved should gradually open their markets to eu exports. this will ensure an investment climate conducive to the development of the secondary sector in these countries. this economic partnership agreement between the eu and the four abovementioned countries is a tailor-made economic development instrument designed to meet their economic requirements and capabilities. in line with the development strategy defined by both parties and in line with the legal framework of the world trade organisation, i believe that this agreement will be a socio-economic asset for all its stakeholders. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the report also stresses that the eu's economic and social cohesion policy is a key element of the eu's economic and social cohesion policy. the fact that only four of the 16 acp countries have ratified the epa contradicts those who advocate the supporting role of these agreements for regional integration. in fact, what the eu wants is the liberalisation of trade, from which its large financial and economic groups seek to secure the opening of markets, sell goods and services, exploit raw materials and impose an export-oriented production model, in accordance with their interests. this epa will have serious consequences for small farmers and workers in the eu and acp countries, as trade barriers are gradually removed.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by stressing that efficient national systems must ensure that state aid measures are exempt from the obligation to notify ex-ante and comply with european union law. furthermore, i would also point out that, to date, only the member states have provided relevant information in relation to state aid control cases. i think the commission should be required to assess whether additional resources will be needed to extend its information gathering tools. however, i express my deep concern at the european court of auditors' conclusion that the commission does not systematically seek to detect unnotified aid measures, nor does it comprehensively assess the ex post facto impact of its state aid control. i would also stress the particular difficulty this poses to new entrants and small and mediumsized enterprises and the distortive effect it has on competition. i therefore believe that the commission, in the context of the modernisation of state aid, should address the issues mentioned above and ensure that any shortcomings in ex ante control of notifications are compensated by effective and rigorous ex post control.
in writing. - this european parliament motion for a resolution stresses the need for greater involvement of the parliament in the preparation and evaluation of state aid proposals, regretting that the parliament does not have a co-decision role in this area. it therefore urges that this situation be changed in the future. it considered that this state aid instrument should ensure a stimulus to economic growth and at the same time prevent an excessive increase in public debt. to this end, state aid must be better targeted, implying less public expenditure and no distortion of competition, while also ensuring the transition to a knowledge-based economy with the development of the necessary services and infrastructure. the role of state aid is to promote a level playing field in the internal market, but its use is also central to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the green transformation of the economy. these must therefore be rigorously applied and evaluated in order to reap the full benefits of their positive effects. i am voting in favour of this proposal from the european parliament, as i believe that it contributes to improving the effectiveness of the application of state aid, which is so important in ensuring a level playing field in the internal market.
in writing. the commission has recently put forward two proposals for regulations on the modernisation of state aid, which aim to ensure that economic growth is stimulated without entailing or leading to a further increase in public debt. such a reform aims not only to reduce state aid but also to make it more targeted and non-competitive, by encouraging the development of services, knowledge and infrastructure itself rather than supporting specific enterprises. in addition, this reform aims to focus the commission's intervention on the most relevant cases, exempting a greater number of measures from the notification requirement, which seems to me to be an important measure of procedural economy and rationalisation of resources. i hope, however, that in the course of this process of reviewing the state aid legislation, both the commission and the council will take account of the amendments which will be tabled by this parliament.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution tabled following a question with oral answer by mrs sharon bowles on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the european union's (eu) policy on state aid. the economic and financial crisis forced member states to adopt a new form of governance that cut back on public administration expenditure. state aid has long been criticised as distorting competition and undermining the functioning of the internal market. although this is a very sensitive matter which should be dealt with in a different regulatory framework, namely codecision rather than mere consultation by the european parliament, i nevertheless believe that state aid, if properly modernised, can contribute to economic recovery and job creation. it must therefore be directed towards areas such as research and new technologies.
in writing. the european parliament (ep) has adopted a resolution on the situation in the european union and the fight against terrorism. the resolution is based on the neoliberal vision. and it reflects, in crystal clear form, the assumptions of this vision. concerns about possible 'distortions of competition within an eu internal market'. by limiting or even making it impossible to grant state aid to key sectors, public enterprises, public services, etc., while keeping intact the neoliberal dogmas of non-intervention by the state in the economy, the majority of the ep is favouring the great powers and big capital which have obvious competitive advantages and harming countries like portugal, seeking to make it impossible to defend employment, production and public enterprises or services. it is an attack on the sovereign and inalienable democratic right of a people and a country to decide to grant this kind of aid to solve a specific problem of national, regional or sectoral interest with obvious harm to workers and populations. no strengthening of the role of the european parliament in this area can legitimise this flagrant theft of democratic rights and sovereignty.
in writing. the modernisation of state aid proposed in this new regulation may be important in securing a new economic stimulus. however, it must not lead to an increase in public debt, which is already very high in some eu member states. although state aid is scarcer, it should be better targeted, involve less public expenditure and should not distort competition, while supporting the transition to a knowledge-based economy. state aid should be designed to promote the development of services, knowledge and infrastructure itself, rather than supporting specific undertakings. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this european parliament resolution stresses the need for greater involvement of the parliament in the preparation and evaluation of state aid proposals, regretting that it does not have a co-decision role in this area. it therefore urges that this situation be changed in the future. i am voting in favour of this proposal from the european parliament, as i believe that it contributes to improving the effectiveness of the application of state aid, which is so important in ensuring a level playing field in the internal market. the state aid instrument is intended to ensure a stimulus to economic growth while preventing an excessive increase in public debt. to this end, state aid must be better targeted, implying less public expenditure and no distortion of competition, while also ensuring the transition to a knowledge-based economy with the development of the necessary services and infrastructure. the role of state aid should be to promote a level playing field in the internal market, but its use is also central to achieving the europe 2020 objectives as well as the green transformation of the economy. these must therefore be rigorously applied and evaluated in order to reap the full benefits of their positive effects.
in writing. - this european parliament motion for a resolution stresses the need for greater involvement of the parliament in the preparation and evaluation of state aid proposals, regretting that the parliament does not have a co-decision role in this area. it therefore urges that this situation be changed in the future. it considered that this state aid instrument should ensure a stimulus to economic growth and at the same time prevent an excessive increase in public debt. to this end, state aid must be better targeted, implying less public expenditure and no distortion of competition, and also ensuring the transition to a knowledge-based economy with the development of the necessary services and infrastructure. the role of state aid is to promote a level playing field in the internal market, but its use is also central to achieving the europe 2020 objectives as well as the green transformation of the economy. these must therefore be rigorously applied and evaluated in order to reap the full benefits of their positive effects. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that more effective application of state aid is needed to ensure a level playing field in the internal market.
in writing. the european parliament welcomes the commission's communication on the modernisation of state aid and the new commission proposals for regulations. the commission will, however, need to ensure that the stimulus to economic growth, which is one of the general objectives of this reform, does not lead to an increase in public debt. the state aid modernisation package is the cornerstone of the ongoing process of modernising competition policy and therefore a swift implementation of the reform package is required. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. they are concerned about possible distortions of competition within an eu internal market which they not only want to keep untouchable but to deepen even further, which will necessarily result in further destruction of productive capacity in countries with fragile economies, as is the case in portugal. by limiting or even making it impossible to grant state aid to key sectors, public enterprises, public services, etc., while keeping intact the neoliberal dogmas of non-intervention by the state in the economy, the majority of the ep is favouring the great powers and big capital, which have obvious competitive advantages, and harming countries like portugal, seeking to make it impossible to defend employment, production and public enterprises or services. it is an attack on the sovereign and inalienable democratic right of a people and a country to decide to grant this kind of aid to solve a specific problem of national, regional or sectoral interest with obvious harm to workers and populations. no strengthening of the ep's role in this area can legitimise this clear theft of democratic rights and sovereignty.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, bearing in mind that fires in textile and other products factories in asia have killed hundreds of people in recent months. there are some 4,500 factories in bangladesh employing over two million people, many of which operate with minimal parameters in terms of industrial fire safety. furthermore, given that bangladesh is already the second largest exporter in the world after china, and receives some £12.5 billion a year from exports, mainly to the united states and the european union, it is necessary to ensure that the commission uses our strategic relations with bangladesh and other asian countries to draw attention to decent working conditions, but also to the demands that must be made on european brand producers that must respect the rights of workers worldwide and in global trade and industrial relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i convey my condolences to the families of the victims and express my solidarity with the injured involved in this tragic accident. it is important that the governments of bangladesh and pakistan take steps to prevent further tragedies. to this end, an effective and independent system of labour inspections and inspections of industrial buildings needs to be set up.
in writing. - the fires in the bangladeshi textile factories - which i deeply regret and whose victims and families i remember - make clear the disparity between the safety and hygiene conditions at work in these industrial complexes and western standards. unfortunately, this competitiveness is built at the expense of the exploitation of workers who are victims of these poor conditions and low wages and it puts at risk the competing european industries which seek to ensure that those who work in them at least have the minimum requirements required by their respective legislation. the textile industry in my country has been particularly affected by this unfair competition. western companies which feed these situations of degradation of human dignity and risk to life and health by ordering or relocating should consider their practices, reconsider them and seek to adopt or require the adoption of rigor and demand in this respect.
in writing. − on 24 november 2012, a violent fire broke out in a textile factory in bangladesh, killing 112 people mostly young people and women and injuring many others. as a result, 300 workers lost their jobs. this was not an isolated case and many other fires have occurred in industries which do not meet minimum safety requirements. to reduce production costs and be more competitive in the international market, these companies exploit workers and resort to child labor. first of all, i would like to extend my condolences to all the families of the victims of this and other fires that have occurred in south asia. the demand for high safety standards in european companies has led to the relocation of many of these industries to emerging countries where wages are around one dollar a day and where the recommendations of the international labour organization (ilo) are not met at all. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because we must demand that all the european union's trading partners respect minimum social, labour and environmental conditions. companies can't just think about profits. you have to think about the workers, too.
in writing. the resolution was adopted following fires in textile factories in south asia, particularly in bangladesh. we support the resolution, but we cannot help expressing some concerns here. there is a general concern, evident throughout the resolution, about the precarious working conditions of these workers and the need for manufacturers to implement legislation on health and safety at work and for greater control by governments through an independent system of labour inspections. bangladesh is now the second largest exporter of clothing to europe, a fact that is inextricably linked to the relocation of european textile production to south asian countries, where labour costs are much lower than in europe. the european retailers who have now contributed to the compensation schemes for the victims and their families are the same ones who condone the subjecting of these workers to inhuman working conditions, which is at the root of this kind of tragedy. the same people who take advantage of unemployment and poverty, as well as of the legislative gaps in these countries in terms of employment, to increase their profits even more.
in writing. - i would like to take this opportunity to remember the victims and to offer my condolences to their families. this type of incident is totally unacceptable and makes it very clear how poorly the safety and hygiene standards are respected in the industrial complexes of countries like bangladesh, compared to those required in western economies. the exploitation of workers who are victims of these poor conditions and low wages is also responsible for unfair competition, which is a problem for competing european industries which seek to ensure that those who work in them at least meet the minimum requirements of their respective legislation. the textile industry in portugal has been suffering from this unfair competition for the last few years, with very harmful consequences for our industry and for the increase in unemployment. western industries, which are often responsible for relocating their production to these countries, should review their relocation policies, and at the same time find better hygiene and safety solutions in these countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the victims of the recent textile factory fires, particularly in bangladesh, which welcomes the initiative of european retailers who have already contributed to compensation schemes for victims and their families and encourages others to follow their example.
in writing. − since 2005, around 600 workers have lost their lives in textile factory fires in bangladesh. at the root of these tragedies are the poor working conditions in these factories and the lack of attention paid by their owners to the safety of their workers. in addition to expressing our condolences to the families of the victims, we must therefore appeal to the local authorities to investigate these events thoroughly and to take measures to ensure that those responsible are punished and that the victims and their families are supported and that new tragedies are prevented. every effort should be made to ensure compliance with and improvement of standards of health and safety at work, and in this respect, european retailers with links to these factories should assume their responsibilities and actively contribute to the promotion of a socially responsible business culture based on full respect for workers' rights.
in writing. − on 24 november 2012, a fire at a textile factory in ashulia (savar sub-district of dhaka district, capital of bangladesh) killed 112 people, not counting the number of injured. in addition to the fire in ashulia, there were 17 other fires in other textile factories, thus highlighting the poor working conditions in the industries in bangladesh. the european parliament had already drawn bangladesh's attention in previous resolutions to the precariousness of working conditions in the sector. the situation in ashulia is due to the weak or non-existent enforcement of international labour organisation (ilo) rules in south asia. i urge the government of the people's republic of bangladesh, in particular the prime minister sheikh hasina, the ministers of labour and employment rajiuddin ahmed raju and begum monnujan sufian, the minister of textiles and jute abdul latif siddiqui and other responsible authorities, to make every effort to implement and actually implement the ilo rules on working conditions on the ground. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the resolution was adopted in the light of the fires in textile factories in south asia, particularly in bangladesh. there is a general concern expressed, evident throughout the resolution, about the poor working conditions of these workers, advocating the need for manufacturers to actually implement health and safety legislation and for greater control by governments through an independent system of labour inspections. bangladesh is now the second largest exporter of clothing to europe, a fact directly linked to the relocation of textile production to south asian countries, where labour costs are much lower than in europe. we consider it hypocritical that european retailers have contributed to the systems of compensation for victims and their families when they are complicit in the continuation of such tragedies, directly and simultaneously contributing to the increase in unemployment and the poverty of workers in europe. in practice, they take advantage of these countries and the legislative gaps in labour law to increase their profits even further.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, recalling that in the final text of the 2010 non-proliferation treaty there is an agreement to hold a conference in 2012 for the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east, which was scheduled for december 2012. i deeply regret the postponement of the conference which was scheduled for 2012 and i strongly urge all stakeholders to meet at this conference as soon as possible. in my view, the european union must remain actively involved, as it has in previous years, because the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east would enhance international peace and stability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east will improve the processes of peace and stability, not only in the region but also at international level.
in writing. − the award of the 2012 nobel peace prize to the european union (eu) was a recognition of the possibility for peoples who once fought each other to feel brotherly in a common project of peace and economic development. this joint motion for a resolution contains a set of recommendations from the conference on the revision of the non-proliferation treaty with regard to the definition of a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction. in the event of a conflict, when one party has a certain type of weapon, this situation generates a race on the other side to find weapons that can balance the war forces. in the war industry, nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction have primacy because of the tragic consequences they produce. these weapons, in the hands of dictators, fanatics or extremists, are a matter of great concern to the entire international community, because we never know when they may be used as offensive weapons. because we all want a world free of weapons of mass destruction, i regret that the conference on this subject which was to have been held in helsinki last december did not take place, thus postponing the creation of a corridor free of such weapons in the middle east.
in writing. - we believe that all efforts to achieve the objective of establishing a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east should be supported. we are in favour of a programme involving all the nuclear powers with a view to relaunching negotiations on nuclear disarmament, with the ultimate aim of promoting their total dismantling and prohibiting their use and production. with this resolution, the majority of this parliament is showing a certain hypocrisy. they advocate the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east. but they do not mention, even once, that some of the world's nuclear powers are part of the eu (and nato) and that they themselves should take steps towards the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in europe. nor do they mention complicity with israel - the only power in the middle east which, illegally and outside international treaties, possesses a vast arsenal of nuclear weapons. nuclear disarmament is inseparable from the need to demilitarise international relations, respect the charter of the united nations, international law, the principles of non-interference and the peaceful settlement of international conflicts. the steps taken by the eu are unfortunately going in the opposite direction.
in writing. - i must condemn the postponement of the conference on the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east, which the 2010 review conference of the non-proliferation treaty had scheduled for 2012. such a delay could have a negative impact on regional security and international efforts towards denuclearisation. i welcome the role that the united nations has maintained in this delicate matter. we must continue to push for a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in this region of the globe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it important that the european parliament should express its opinion on the postponement of the helsinki conference on the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction is a fundamental element of international security and the most urgent security priorities are to prevent more states from obtaining or using nuclear weapons. it is essential for global security to reduce global arsenals and move towards a world without nuclear weapons.
in writing. - the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction constitutes one of the most serious threats to international stability and security. the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east is therefore seen as a fundamental step. in view of the political instability in the region, this initiative is urgent and it is important to ensure the continuity of the efforts of the united nations and the eu to ensure that the helsinki conference on the establishment of the european union, initially scheduled for december 2012, can be held as soon as possible.
in writing. − the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction is of paramount importance for international efforts to denuclearise and for the creation of a climate of confidence for the peaceful settlement of the middle east conflict. the countries of the region must put an end to the sharp disagreements over the conditions for the creation of the zone and the different stages of the process, otherwise the process of stability and peace in the region will be delayed. together with the rapporteurs, i urge the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton of upholland, to make all the necessary efforts and to continue the work begun with the eu partners and other stakeholders so that the states of the region approach this issue with mutual respect and understanding, so as to reach a much needed understanding. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − all efforts to achieve the objective of establishing a zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction in the middle east should be supported. we must go further, with the implementation of a programme involving all the nuclear powers with a view to relaunching negotiations on nuclear disarmament with the ultimate aim of promoting their total dismantling and prohibiting their use and production. this resolution has a hypocritical side which is inseparable from all the interference in iran and syria and the eu's camouflage of israel, the only power in the region which, illegally and outside international treaties, has nuclear weapons. the majority of meps support the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east but do not mention once that some of the world's nuclear powers are part of the eu (and nato) and that they themselves should take steps towards the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in europe. nuclear disarmament is inseparable from the need to demilitarise international relations, to respect the charter of the united nations, international law, the principles of non-interference and the peaceful settlement of international conflicts.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by regretting that the council has not adopted a common position to date, leaving the codecision procedure half-way. i also regret the lack of respect shown by the european commission in withdrawing the proposal without properly informing the european parliament of the decision and the steps to be taken in this matter. it is therefore up to the european parliament to demand that the european commission respond to the formal procedures and, more substantially, to the decision to withdraw the proposal.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i regret the commission's intention to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries, legislation which has already been adopted by parliament at first reading. this position shows an institutional disregard by parliament, in that the commission did not inform the ep in time and did not provide the co-legislators with a detailed justification of its objective before taking the decision.
in writing. − if there is one area in which the eu has been successful, it is in protecting consumers' rights by imposing rules that defend their rights and ensure that they are sufficiently informed to exercise their freedom of choice in conscience. this was one of the standards to which the european consumer had become accustomed and to which european producers had adapted. so, for the sake of transparency, consumer protection, but also protection for european producers, it is essential that goods imported from third countries are correctly identified as such, giving account of their origin. i'll even go further: if europe is so restrictive in the rules it imposes on its producers, it should only allow the import of products which comply with those same rules, otherwise it would be opening up the market to low-cost products which are made in defiance of all community legislation and which, as such, enter into unfair competition with the european product, the production and/or manufacture of which is much more expensive. at a time when the commission is being called to account by parliament on this matter, it must also consider this basic question of competition in the internal market.
in writing. − the european citizen is an informed consumer, aware of his rights and demanding about the products he consumes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. as regards imported products, a resolution to make it compulsory for certain products from third countries to include an indication of origin was adopted in 2010 by a large majority (525 votes to 49). this requirement is not new, as countries such as china, the united states of america and canada already have such rules. because it is urgent that the european union should have rules to oblige third countries to respect labour and social standards recommended by international organisations, i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and i urge the commission to move quickly, as other trading powers are doing, with a new proposal to oblige the marking of origin on certain products imported from third countries. the consumer, european companies and above all workers in third countries stand to gain.
in writing. - during the debate on the report on this subject in 2010, we voted in favour. we agree that it is necessary to clarify the route that products take to reach eu countries. the designation of origin is a contribution to this. we support parliament's critical position against the commission for having backtracked on its proposal in this area. however, both then and now we expressed the same concerns that this indication, in isolation, without the accompanying measures, will have a very small impact. it is necessary to go further. a break with wto guidelines is a priority to allow countries to give priority to developing their production and market, with control of imported goods, imposing minimum quality and technical criteria equal to those required of companies within the eu, and combating dumping. the establishment of more equitable and fairer economic relations is necessary. all these issues are outside the scope of this resolution. on the contrary, it goes the other way. the appellation of origin will not be the panacea for the heavy consequences of free trade which they are here promising. we voted against it.
in writing. - the compulsory marking of origin on certain products imported from third countries is essential for consumer protection and information. parliament had adopted legislation on this subject at first reading some time ago, and now the commission is unilaterally turning a blind eye to legislation adopted by the co-legislator without any justification. i would even like the commission, in addition to requiring importing countries to indicate their origin, to make an effort to ensure that these countries begin to approximate the health and safety rules required of western companies. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which regrets the commission's intention to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries, which was approved by parliament at first reading, without informing the ep in good time and without providing the co-legislators with a detailed justification of its purpose before taking a decision. i support the call in this resolution for the commission to reconsider its decision.
in writing. the european parliament regretted the commission's intention to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin on certain products imported from third countries, which had already been approved by parliament at first reading, without giving parliament detailed information and justification. in this context, the commission is asked to reconsider its planned decision or, alternatively, to propose new legislation compatible with wto rules, informing the european parliament of the timetable of future actions needed to relaunch the legislative process and overcome the current impasse. for the reasons i have mentioned, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the path taken by products to enter eu countries needs to be clarified. however, we expressed some concerns that this indication, in isolation, without the accompanying measures, will have a very small impact. we need to go further: a break with the current wto guidelines is a priority to allow countries to give priority to the development of their production and market, with the control of imported goods, imposing minimum quality and technical criteria equal to those required of companies within the eu, combating dumping, effective regulation of capital markets, penalizing the relocation of companies, taxing financial transactions and ending tax havens. the establishment of more equitable and fairer economic relations, at the service of peoples and countries, supporting development and cooperation based on equality between states and building alliances and agreements with countries on all continents, is necessary to combat deep social injustices and inequalities.
in writing. − this agreement must be mutually beneficial in all the sectors covered by it. however, there is a need for elements which show concern about further damage to european producers, recalling that one of the elements which is not usually taken into account in these negotiations is the real impact on the regional economies dependent on certain products imported under these negotiations, and it is important not only to defend trade relations between the european union and mercosur, but also to defend the interests of european producers, such as those in the most fragile regions such as the ors. finally, i reiterate the importance of respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law, as well as environmental and social standards, being an integral part of all trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, in order to achieve greater coherence in external actions, reflecting the eu's economic interests while promoting its fundamental values.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for urging the european and latin american authorities to make meaningful political commitments and to make progress in the trade negotiations between the two blocs at the next eu-mercosur ministerial meeting. the desirable agreement will require the parties to have significant political motivation and support to exchange sufficiently ambitious market access proposals on goods, services, investments and the other chapters of the trade pillar of the eu-mercosur agreement.
in writing. - trade relations between the european union and mercosur are now of major importance to both partners. despite this mutual interest and the practical results of closer proximity and interconnectedness of markets, negotiations to further liberalise trade have been at an impasse that has frustrated partners and businesses, and denied european and mercosur consumers access to more goods and services. i believe that the historical and cultural proximity between mercosur and the european countries of the iberian peninsula is a value that must be exploited properly and that the markets of the european union and the south atlantic should seek to converge and to free themselves from most of the barriers that still separate them. i am not unaware of the main problems which still prevent this wish from being fulfilled, but i would like both sides to show greater courage and commitment in the way they maintain and promote bilateral trade. protectionist measures will do nothing to make this happen.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled pursuant to rule 104 (4) and rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the ppe, s&d, alde and ecr groups, concerns the state of trade relations between the european union (eu) and the southern common market (mercosur), i.e. a customs union between argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay, established on 26 march 1991 by the treaty of asunción. mercosur is a very important trading partner of the eu, as a large part of latin american exports goes to european markets. however, trade relations between the eu and mercosur are at an impasse due to political problems which in some cases even appear provocative, such as the nationalization of the oil company ypf controlled by the spanish company repsol by the argentine government. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because there is a universe of 850 million potential beneficiaries of the eu's cooperation agreements and development aid programmes at stake, while at the same time the eu has an opportunity to impose its values of the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and democracy.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. this agreement is part of the drive to open up markets to competition worldwide. the resolution also criticises the mercosur countries for applying measures considered to be protectionist in trade and investment, particularly argentina. these countries are now correcting the neoliberal policies which led them to economic and social disaster - the same policies which are being pursued in europe, with the known results. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. the free trade they advocate here is the protectionism of the rich and powerful, which threatens the sovereignty of peoples over their resources and over the choices as to the path to their development. we voted against it in defence of workers, farmers and small and mediumsized businesses on both sides of the atlantic. against the interests of big business, the multinationals, after all, the beneficiaries of free trade.
in writing. - the impasse in the negotiations on trade relations between the european union and mercosur has not been beneficial to either side. despite the strong interest in more profitable trade relations between these two blocs, little progress has been made. these difficulties, besides frustrating the parties to the negotiations, prevent consumers in both economic blocs from having access to a greater number of products at better conditions. the historical and cultural proximity between the mercosur countries and the countries of the iberian peninsula can be a good asset to unlock this situation. we must therefore work together to find the solutions needed to break this deadlock in the negotiations. i, as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with the mercosur countries, will do my part.
in writing. - following the work on the relaunch of negotiations for an ambitious and balanced association agreement between the eu and our eighth largest trading partner, mercosur, this motion for a resolution recommends closer cooperation, while deploring the slow pace of negotiations and the protectionist trade and investment measures recently adopted by some latin american countries. in this context, the next eu-mercosur ministerial meeting, to be held in late january 2013 in parallel with the celac-eu summit in santiago, chile, could provide an excellent opportunity for the parties to make progress in the negotiations.
in writing. − the european parliament recognises the economic and political importance of the eu-mercosur negotiations launched in 2010 with the aim of concluding a balanced, fair, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreement in all sectors covered. however, i regret the slowness of the negotiations and the lack of substantial progress to date and hope that the next eu-mercosur ministerial meeting, to be held as early as the end of january, in parallel with the celac-eu summit in santiago, chile, will be an important opportunity to make clear and meaningful political commitments and to make progress in the negotiations. for the reasons i have given, i supported the joint resolution.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. this agreement is part of the drive to open up markets to competition worldwide. the resolution also criticises the mercosur countries for applying trade and investment protectionist measures, particularly against argentina, in what constitutes an unacceptable interference with the sovereign economic policies of other countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we believe that the liberalization of markets calls into question the sovereignty of peoples and states over their resources and over the definition of the path to their development. with the liberalisation of world trade, workers are under pressure on wages and labour rights, and the activity of most small and mediumsized farmers and smes is being jeopardised, promoting the interests of large multinationals and the concentration of capital.
in writing. – the latest sentences against opposition activists and medics in bahrain confirm the inability of bahrain's judicial system to comply with international law and represent a setback in the progress towards justice and national reconciliation. we hereby call for the immediate and unconditional release of all bahraini political prisoners, in particular nabeel rajab and abdulhadi al-khawaja, whom parliamentarians had the opportunity to visit last december in the delegation to bahrain. having heard heart-rending testimonies from torture victims, it is my view that there can be no reconciliation without an independent investigation and perpetrators, at all levels, being brought to justice. bahrain has strategic importance to the eu, however, we must continue to press the bahraini authorities to stop the use of violence against peaceful protestors, to end the ongoing repression of political dissent and implement the recommendations of the bici report towards the democratisation of the country. of utmost importance is to allow an inclusive political dialogue, namely to address the discrimination faced by the shia majority and the protection of basic human rights. until then, the eu should reconsider its trade and diplomatic relations with bahrain and impose targeted restrictive measures against perpetrators of human rights violations.
the posei programmes are a testimony to europe's commitment to the values of distributive justice and solidarity, and to the desire for economic and social cohesion among all the regions on which the european union itself is based. posei agriculture is of decisive value in the present and future of the economies of regions heavily dependent on agriculture and under permanent natural constraints, such as the outermost regions. in the azores, agriculture is one of the most important pillars of the regional economy, responsible for the dynamism of most of the secondary sector and a significant part of the tertiary sector, and also determining for the fixation of populations on several islands. in this context, i congratulate the rapporteur and those who have worked with him to present a programme whose breadth and flexibility seek to respond to the needs of each of the outermost regions. i cannot, however, fail to point out that the specific nature of the azores with regard to their heavy dependence on milk production has not been taken into account. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the farmers to reduce their losses, to help them to restructure their holdings and to help them to convert to other farming methods. this peculiarity of azorean agriculture, which extends to the vital importance of the meat sector, which is also very much threatened from outside, must be taken into account in posei, if justice is to be served. in addition, in these sectors, as in others with high production, the export that the european commission foresees and encourages will have the added price of transport in the ors and thus the loss of competitiveness. today, however, our attention is focused on the posei budget, which at the very least should have been updated in line with inflation, which has not yet happened. commissioner, it is known that the services are already working on posei, even though we have only just concluded an agreement that took two years to obtain. you guys working on a budget? what is the purpose of resuming this dossier now? what are the subjects under consideration? what new measures will the commission propose?
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that this revision of posei has been made in a very difficult context, in which unfortunately a considerable number of countries are demanding sharp cuts in the union budget. we regret, however, that the commission and the council have rejected the increase in funding considered necessary by the committee on agriculture, which is aimed at the sustainability of agricultural activities and the challenge facing these remote european regions with problems of scale and scope, particularly because the union is in the process of opening up the markets for agricultural products, as provided for by international agreements, which is affecting the production of these regions very strongly. a number of agreements are being prepared which, in addition to already announcing the end of milk quotas, threaten production such as milk and meat, which have not seen any financial increase in this review to strengthen the measures needed to deal with these challenges. we therefore look forward to the progress and improvements we can make in this revision of the regulation, whereby the commission will start to monitor and monitor the milk and banana sector on a permanent basis, including the necessary proposals resulting from this assessment, as well as the obligation to carry out impact assessments specific to the outermost regions in international agreements.
as we have always said, the natural constraints on the outermost regions and the economic and social constraints which they impose must justify a set of measures to support these regions. permanent measures to compensate for these constraints and not temporary, casual derogations. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the financial allocation for the posei programme has been insufficient. several productions, particularly agricultural, are in decline and are facing great difficulties. the truth is that what little the european union has given with one hand, it takes back with two. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the cap is not used as a means of regulating production. this is the case with quotas in the milk sector, a sector of capital importance in the azores, or sugar, which needs permanent measures and not just temporary derogations. deregulation and the liberalisation of international trade also affect the economies of these regions. the measures taken in the banana sector, which open the door to american multinationals, affect local production in regions such as madeira. or what they want to do in the meat sector or other sectors. these are just a few examples among many others.
we cannot isolate the problem of violence against women and girls from the whole of the transversal policies that are being implemented by the european union, here in the 27 member states. the eradication of all forms of violence against women means combating poverty, unemployment and the increase in marginalization and dependency which are driving the increase in causes such as prostitution, which today increasingly affects women. combating violence means combating domestic violence and this requires the strengthening of social policies, i.e. public investment which is blocked by the fiscal policies of the european union. eradicating violence against women means eliminating the imposition of grueling work patterns at work, the low wages that keep women in cycles of poverty and prevent them from achieving economic independence, and ending wage inequalities. the measures to make work more flexible, which so encourage the concept of competitiveness in the european institutions, only make it more difficult for women to break the cycle of violence to which they are subject. it is not worth preaching equality and practicing inequality, which is increasing today and has political responsibilities.
violence against women and girls is a human rights issue and should be considered a public crime so that anyone can file a complaint, not just the victim. we cannot tolerate criminal practices which, in the name of tradition, threaten the integrity and physical and psychological health of women, such as female genital mutilation, forced and early marriages. we need better european legislation and we need to be more demanding also with our neighbours and our partners. we need training for all officers, including the judiciary. often the courts, the judges, are not sensitive to these situations and make decisions that are incomprehensible. and almost always it's the victim who is forced to leave the house and the attacker stays. there is no way that this can happen again. we need better legislation.
for the gue/ngl group i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done. it has been mentioned many times here that smes are responsible for job creation and in the case of the last five years, years dominated by the crisis, they were responsible for creating more than 80% of new jobs in europe. in a europe which no longer has the capacity to create jobs and whose main problem is unemployment, i think this is an issue we must not forget. it is very important and therefore the conditions for financing by smes is a key issue. but of all the positive remarks in the report which has been presented here, i would like to highlight one in paragraph 3, which relates to the fact that it says that banking institutions which have benefited from public aid must be subject to defined objectives as regards amounts and conditions for financing smes. and indeed, it is not fair that so many people in europe are making sacrifices to recapitalize the banks, so that the banks can increase their profits, and that none of the banks reverse this recapitalization in favor of society by putting money into the economy. only this can help us to create jobs, only this can help us to recover economically. i sincerely hope that this is a step forward.
mr president, commissioner, small and mediumsized enterprises are the backbone of the european economy, the main engine of economic growth in the union and the main creators of jobs. but they are fragile, with few and weak means of surviving the economic or financial crisis we are experiencing, which is weakening them to the point of collapse. this is what is happening throughout the union, and it is getting worse in countries under external assistance such as portugal. under these conditions, banks became more prudent, creating new barriers to access to credit. smes, on the other hand, have been further weakened by the difficulty of access, creating a vicious circle that ruins smes, the middle class and what should be the most solid and stable foundation of a country's economy. this report, for which i congratulate the rapporteur, shows how we can help to reverse this situation and create the conditions to facilitate access by smes to the necessary financing, in particular by combating the disproportionate level of information and bargaining power between smes and banks. we are losing a lot and there is a lot to gain so it is urgent to act.
in writing. the report on 'improving access to finance for smes' is positive, not least because it draws attention to the need for the commission to look at this strategic plan more comprehensively, including alternative financing mechanisms. this plan can be essential in the face of the economic and financial crisis affecting the european union as a whole, by helping to strengthen banking systems, improving access to public procurement, promoting new synergies for investment and exports, debt instruments in partnership with banks and other operators involved in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. i reiterate the express need to increase the financial volume of european union instruments such as cosme and the horizon 2020 programme for small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition, i think it is essential to simplify the regulatory instrument and the administrative environment for small and mediumsized enterprises, ensuring adequate protection for workers' needs in the areas of social security and health and safety.
in writing. the debate on this report is timely but leaves a number of questions unanswered. why are banks that have been recapitalized with hundreds of billions of euros in the eu at the expense of workers' incomes not investing in the real economy? the answer is simple: because they have no guarantee of profit or because the potential profits are not attractive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my country, portugal, where small businesses cut investment by 40% in 2012 compared to 2011, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs revealed that their biggest problem is not access to credit, but rather the deterioration of sales prospects, that is, the contraction of consumption. the solution: raise the living standards of workers by raising wage and pension levels. that is to say, everything that the commission and the majority of this parliament do not support when they approve all the packages relating to the so-called 'budgetary consolidation'. not a word about this in the report.
mr president, the idea of active ageing lends itself to different, sometimes conflicting, approaches. the increase in life expectancy, an achievement of civilization, brings new challenges to which society must find answers. the meaning of that answer will, of course, depend on the kind of society we want. in a society organised around the satisfaction of human needs, new investment is needed in a diverse range of existing and future public services, starting with health. this is the opposite of what is being done in europe and, in particular, in portugal, where these services are being dismantled with dramatic consequences. in a society organized on the basis of profit, the increase in life expectancy serves to fuel the pressure to reduce rights and increase the retirement age, forgetting that labour productivity has increased significantly in recent decades, so this option is not inevitable, contrary to what some would like to believe. it is in the tension and struggle between these opposing views that it will become clear, sooner or later, what active ageing is all about.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, every month citizens spend a substantial portion of their salary or pensions on medicines and wonder about the price they pay, especially in times of crisis and austerity. that is why it is so important that the pricing process and rules are clear and transparent. we all want to know what we're paying for and why. but we come to the house today with a proposal which, despite the improvements in the report, is contrary to the interests of european citizens rather than protecting them, as one would expect, and even prevents member states from reassessing the safety, efficacy and quality of medicines. moreover, by setting deadlines for member states to decide on the price and reimbursement system for each medicinal product, this directive ends up proposing a dictatorship of the pharmaceutical industry because, if countries do not do so within the deadlines, they have to pay the industry, going so far as to enshrine the possibility for the manufacturer to unilaterally impose his price on the member states if the deadlines are not respected. this is unacceptable to us. that is why my group is bringing to the plenary a set of amendments to restore the competence of the member states and to prevent penalties that would affect public health services, already so attacked in times of austerity and with minimal budgets, and also to really guarantee the interests of the citizens.
member states are responsible for the organisation of their health systems and for the allocation of resources allocated to them, including in the area of medicines. that is the way it is, and that is the way it should remain. the action of the troika occupying portugal, forcing the price of medicines to rise and reducing the share of the state, is therefore illegitimate. the result: severe limitations on access to medicines. many users, especially the elderly on lower incomes, have to choose: either the drugs in the pharmacy or the food. some hospitals no longer make medicines available to users in hospital pharmacies. the european commission's concerns about patients' access to medicines are therefore well known. the concern here is something else: the market, always the market, the trade in medicines, the interests of the pharmaceutical companies. finally, a clarification: in portugal we still have a national health service, in accordance with the universal constitution and tending to be free. it would therefore be appropriate to correct the expression used by the european commission, national health insurance scheme. it is that the desires and intentions of some are not yet reality and, as far as we are concerned, never will be.
madam president, commissioner, to meet the challenge of globalisation, europe's growth strategy needs a modern industrial policy based on innovation, resource efficiency and the qualification of human resources. the role of innovation is fundamental and it is important to link industrial policy with the innovation strategy. industrial policy must be based on the efficiency of natural resources, including energy efficiency, making industrial activity compatible with sustainable development, but it is also necessary to develop capacities for innovation through education and training, increasing the number of technological scientists and engineers in europe. in this connection, i would like to mention the proposal for european reindustrialisation, launched by portugal and four other european countries - spain, france, italy, germany - on the eve of the competitiveness council meeting in december. only a global response will unlock the potential of european industry as a driver of growth and job creation. in this regard, we hope that the european budget for 2014-2020 will send an important signal by prioritising the policies that contribute most to growth, i.e. science, innovation, education, support for smes.
the deindustrialization in my country, portugal, the financial strangulation of productive activity and the destruction of thousands of jobs in the industrial sector, which have placed the country in a situation of external dependence that is now more evident than ever, began with portugal's accession to the then eec. employment in this sector fell from 39% of the national total in 1985 to around 16% in 2012, and its value added weight in national gdp from 30% to 13%. and it is not to be assumed that this pace was the same throughout the european union, since the rate of deindustrialization in portugal was several times higher than the average rate of the european union in the same period, i.e. the single market, privatizations, the central role assigned to foreign capital protected by the european union led to the cancellation of the development potential of the most peripheral countries. if it is clear that the market does not work to balance the economy, only public investment in the recovery of core and strategic industries can solve the problem. to do this, the european union should not condition public investment in the member states but rather encourage it and, of course, break with the policies of fiscal consolidation that stifle internal and external markets without which production is meaningless.
the portuguese rulers are euphoric about the pseudo-return to the markets. you celebrate the debt sale, but the country is only going further into debt. the banks are profiting and the happy bankers are telling us that we're all the same and we have to hang in there. the reality is much crueler: a few weeks after the troika's seventh assessment, 72% of portuguese are no longer able to pay their expenses with their salary or pension, due to the reduction in social benefits, the increase in prices and the tax burden. in fact, we're not all the same. the majority is impoverishing to pay the profits of the bank and comes a banker without any shame to demand that you hold and cite the example of greece; he says: the greeks are alive, protesting a little more vehemently than we are, breaking some monuments, but they are there, they are alive. there is no limit to cynicism when you know that greece is on the verge of a humanitarian crisis and suicide rates are rising. we are not all the same but the difference is not between greeks and portuguese. in portugal, as in greece, there are those who pay and are getting poorer and poorer and there are those who profit from this without producing anything. we must turn the page on this nightmare europe. on march 2nd, we will take the streets and squares of the country and run with the troika.
we are discussing a regulation which is fundamental to the future of the fisheries sector. one thing they all seem to agree on the current common fisheries policy is a disaster from a social, environmental and economic point of view. the question is what we will say in ten years' time about the reform we are discussing now. our position is very clear, this is not the reform that was needed. the commission's original proposal has been improved considerably, and i would like to stress the fact that no reference is made to transferable fishing concessions, which is enough for the commission to put to rest the idea of trying to privatise the common good of fisheries resources. but the positive changes introduced are still not enough. a highly centralised policy is still in place, far removed from the complex and diverse reality of european fisheries, which would rather be managed in close proximity, based on knowledge, taking account of the reality and specific features of each country, each fishing zone, each fleet and each resource, and involving fishermen in the solutions and their implementation. let us be clear: the institutional framework created by the treaty of lisbon, which establishes the conservation of marine biological resources as an exclusive competence of the european union, is an obstacle to this proximity management, an obstacle which sooner or later will have to be removed. the necessary setting of environmental objectives must be accompanied by the setting of social and economic objectives, which are essential in any fisheries policy. a fisheries policy is not, and should not be, a mere policy of conservation of resources, although it does not exempt it. it is a fact that without fish there can be no fishing, a fact that many have dangerously ignored for a long time, some still ignore, but it is also a fact that without fishermen there can be no fishing and many also ignore, dangerously, this other dimension that any fisheries policy must have.
mr president, commissioner, mr minister, the vote on the basic regulation, which will shape the future of the common fisheries policy, is the decisive moment in the reform process, and i thank and congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done so far. i reiterate my commitment to a thorough reform that will solve the long-diagnosed and worsening problems. we need to recover stocks so that there is more fish, but also to value the first sale so that less can be caught and to dignify the profession to develop an entrepreneurship that optimizes resources, that is, we need to accept the challenge of finding a balance between the three pillars of fishing - the environmental, the economic and the social - instead of giving in to the lure of facilitism or the pressure of ngos, to prioritize the environmental and leave the rest for later. the simple equation that today the fishery is closed so that tomorrow there are more fish and the day after tomorrow the fishery is resumed is utopian. fishermen and their families live off their work every day, and you can't just flip the switch on and off like a switch on a switch. this is what only works in the offices of some politicians but not in the real life of fishermen. and we will never achieve success in this reform without the direct involvement and active participation of the sector. that is the case with the proposal on rejections which the ppe is presenting to this house and which must be adopted because it is the only one that is realistic and feasible and that contributes to the preservation of fisheries resources and that has the commitment of the sector. the safeguarding of sensitive biogeographical areas is also essential for the balance of the three pillars of the cfp in the outermost regions. this is also a proposal by the ppe which expects the support of all the groups and in particular of the rapporteur. it would be strange and paradoxical if the environmental concerns of the rapporteur and of the socialists in general were not to extend to the interests of the poorer and more fisheries-dependent regions which want to... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would also like to welcome mr simon coveney to the house, commissioner damanaki, the reform of the common fisheries policy which we are working on will certainly not be the perfect reform but it will be an important step towards a more environmentally sustainable fisheries policy, without neglecting its economic and social dimension. i also join the votes cast for the rapporteur for her hard work and for the acceptance of some of my main concerns, such as the freedom to be given to each member state to choose the system for managing its fishing rights and the channelling for social solidarity of the by-catches so far released at sea. i think that the proposals on issues such as returns and the maximum sustainable yield, in particular against the gradualness of their implementation, although demanding, are realistic and responsible. i also support the priority which is intended to be given to multiannual plans adjusted to each fishery... (the president cut off the speaker)
the reform of the cfp represents an opportunity for local management that promotes the sustainability of fisheries resources and the viability of coastal communities dependent on fishing. in this respect, the creation of the jrc for the outermost regions such as the azores, which helps to promote an ecosystem approach and takes account of the sensitive nature of our specificities, will be very positive. it is also essential that marine areas identified as sensitive biogeographically in scientific studies are subject to our legislation accordingly to protect them. as such, it is necessary to protect the seamounts and fishing grounds that lie beyond the 100 miles already safeguarded for our regions. in trade with third countries we must also ensure reciprocity of the conditions required in order to guarantee equal treatment and fair competition with our operators, safeguarding public health, as proposed and approved by the committee on fisheries.
in writing. i agree with the statements made by french president françois hollande, because i believe that the european budget must be strengthened, thus preserving european policies, especially cohesion policy, which is essential to support the 271 european regions and the common agricultural policy. both european policies represent a high added value for economic growth, job creation and wealth generation and i do not understand how it is possible that some member states want to reduce two of the main investment policies existing on the european continent. i would stress that the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the new cohesion policy regulations are due to be discussed again at the end of this week. i hope that there is a broad consensus on the issues in question and i would like to make the council aware of the need to take account of the natural and economic specificities of the eu's outermost regions. i also congratulate the french president on the military intervention in mali, which has been a tremendous success, helping the local population to live in freedom and democracy.
in writing. - i approve this report in accordance with the new rules in force under the lisbon treaty. first of all, it should be noted that this report is simpler and more explicit in providing the schemes and their main objectives and in highlighting the role played by the support programme for agricultural products from the smaller aegean islands. i am therefore in favour of adopting this report, stressing once again that the european union, in order to have an effective cohesion policy, must always take account of local and regional specificities so that there is a harmonious implementation of community legislation, which promotes development and growth in all regions and does not hinder their economic development process.
in writing. − although the treaties do not declare them as outermost regions, it is widely recognised that the large number of small aegean islands poses a major challenge to the eu's territorial cohesion policy. this justified the adoption in 1993 of a programme similar to posei to support the development of this 'region'. the large dispersion of small territories and their structural deficiencies are a challenge to cohesion policy and call for support, through specific measures, for the development of the local economy and, in particular, for the production and marketing of agricultural products. the development of the aegean islands should be subject to an assessment of existing needs and shortcomings and accompanied by a clear strategic orientation. it is necessary to stimulate agricultural production geared to promoting synergies between the local agricultural economy and the development of tourism and the conservation of local natural and cultural wealth. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal because i consider that the strategy presented to correct the structural deficiencies in the agricultural sector in the aegean islands is balanced and feasible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'specific measures in the agricultural field for the smaller aegean islands', as it will make it possible to adapt the regulation resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and to clarify its objectives, taking into account the importance of the programmes to support agricultural products in this region.
in writing. − the aegean islands have been deserving of special treatment by the european union because of their geographical dispersion and isolation. i believe that this treatment is justified and that it should be maintained, because the outermost regions do not have the same economic alternatives and the same degree of market access as the other european regions. the union is right to focus on the living and working conditions of citizens in these remote areas and to provide them with better conditions for their survival. europe has to gain from its diversity and from the preservation of centuries-old communities with their own cultures and traditions. as with the common agricultural policy as a whole, also with regard to the smaller aegean islands, measures in the agricultural field can and should have social, economic and environmental effects that go far beyond mere food production and intersect with others aimed at promoting the sustainability and development of the populations.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by mr georgios papastamkos, concerns a set of specific measures to be implemented in the agricultural field in favour of the smaller aegean islands, aimed at promoting 'the production, processing and marketing of certain agricultural products and the supply of raw materials to the islands'. these measures were part of the programme of specific options for coping with remote and insularity (posei), which is itself rooted in the objectives of the european union's (eu) cohesion policy in terms of reducing the regional asymmetries that continue to exist between the communities of central europe and the populations of the peripheral and outermost regions. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to support these regions in order to achieve greater territorial cohesion. we all recognise that the factors of production in the peripheral and outermost regions are more expensive, which increases the final cost of products. so, if these regions are not to be depressed, it is essential that the european union, through its cohesion policy, supports rural infrastructure, traditional products and tourism development, creating conditions for the natural and/or resident populations to settle.
in writing. - this regulation lays down agricultural measures for the smaller aegean islands. recognising the constraints facing these islands and therefore the need for special support to overcome the economic and social constraints that arise from them, specific measures are proposed for these islands - a position which we support. the programme to which this report refers sets out the financing to support local agricultural production and a specific supply scheme to support the supply of essential products and raw materials. unfortunately, the adoption of an amendment proposed by the right wing has weakened the report and the final regulation considerably, since it not only cancelled the proposal to increase the overall allocation of the programme by 30%, but also transferred eur 0.55 million from the programme to support local agricultural production (to ensure the maintenance and development of local production) to the specific supply scheme, which raises serious doubts as this will in practice result in a reduction in the amount of support for local agricultural production. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − in accordance with article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the strengthening of the union's economic, social and territorial cohesion is an essential factor for its harmonious and balanced development. in this connection, the union will endeavour to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the less-favoured regions and islands, in particular island, cross-border and mountain regions. the large number of small aegean islands is a major challenge for territorial cohesion policy as originally conceived under eu law and as translated into economic and social cohesion policy. this type of programme is important for strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this report presents a systematic approach to correcting the permanent and structural deficiencies of the agricultural sector in the aegean islands. it is proposed that a thorough needs analysis be carried out and a clear strategic direction developed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the strategy presented.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation submitted to the european parliament constitutes an adaptation of the scheme establishing specific measures in the agricultural field for the smaller aegean islands. these measures, which are covered by the community support programme, are intended to finance the production, processing and marketing of certain agricultural products and the supply of raw materials to the islands. such activities need extraordinary support because the situation of the islands is also extraordinary: either because of the geophysical and climatic conditions (rocky soil, drought, strong winds) or because of the territorial conditions (insularity and grouping into archipelagos). the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the budget for local production by eur 7.7 million and to increase the annual funding of the specific supply scheme by eur 1.6 million. the rapporteur believes that it is not enough to increase funding: it is necessary to link production aid to a sustainable development strategy and to provide for measures to improve the transport of agricultural products produced or processed on the aegean islands. i voted in favour, in the hope that the aegean islands will be able to correct the permanent and structural deficiencies in their agricultural sector.
in writing. - special schemes have been adopted for the smaller aegean islands under specific regulatory measures, with appropriations from the same posei fund, i.e. the european agricultural guarantee fund/european agricultural fund for rural development, the measures being planned and implemented according to the same basis and under the same framework. the dispersion of the islands and their grouping into archipelagos constitutes an obstacle to their supply and trade, resulting in increased transport costs. the existing transport networks are inadequate and are characterised by structural deficiencies resulting in 'double insularity', as the smaller islands are supplied via other, more central islands. so, although the commission proposal does not bring about any substantive changes to the scheme, i voted in favour of maintaining it, which must take account of the new objective of territorial cohesion under article 174 tfeu.
in writing. - the programme to which this report refers defines funding to support local agricultural production and a specific supply scheme to support the supply of essential products and raw materials in the smaller aegean islands. unfortunately, the adoption of an amendment proposed by the right wing has weakened the report and the final regulation considerably, since it not only cancelled the proposal to increase the overall allocation of the programme by 30%, but also transferred eur 0.55 million from the programme to support local agricultural production (to ensure the maintenance and development of local production) to the specific supply scheme, which raises serious doubts as this will in practice mean a reduction in the amount of support for local agricultural production.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that the issue of the socioeconomic situation of the outermost regions remains very fragile and, in my view, is not properly taken into account in the policies announced by the european commission. i would point out that the amendments introduced must be taken into account in order to respect the particular nature of the milk sector, which is of extreme importance for the outermost region from which i come, the azores, particularly as regards international trade compensation directly affecting these regions, and not to forget the safety licences for imported products. posei, in my view, must be complemented by the common agricultural policy in order not to aggravate the crisis already visible in these regions, which are highly dependent on agriculture and where the levels of socioeconomic development are still far from the european union average.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union aims to reform the posei scheme (programme of specific options to deal with remoteness and insularity), set up by regulation (ec) no 247/2006, in order to take account of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the regulation allows free trade in processed products subject to a specific supply arrangements (sps) between the outermost regions (ors) and increases the annual ceilings for sps for france and portugal. these programmes play an inseparable role in the maintenance and development of agricultural production and the processing industry in the regions concerned. the project also aims to simplify and clarify the reading of the regulation covering all the specific agricultural measures for the nine outermost regions of the european union. at a time of economic crisis such as the present, when these regions are affected by unemployment rates many times higher than the national average, it is important not only to maintain this system but, if possible, to strengthen it. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the union (posei) are intended to compensate for the problems and additional costs caused by the exceptional geographical situation of these regions. they are intended, on the one hand, to ensure the supply of the outermost regions with essential agricultural products and, on the other hand, to support the production and marketing of outermost regions' products abroad by reducing the competitive disadvantages on the internal market to which those products are subject, particularly in view of the great distance separating them from the consumer market. these specific measures have thus made it possible to preserve local production structures and create additional jobs, which would be seriously threatened without the existence of the posei programmes. however, unemployment rates in these regions are twice as high as in the eu and the member states to which they belong. the aim of this initiative is to provide greater legal clarity to the regulation and to reinforce the objectives of the programme. i also support the increase in the funding of measures to allow for better account to be taken of the difficulties created by the specific situation of these regions, aggravated by the economic and financial crisis and the increasing pressure on the sectors concerned.
in writing. - for the nine outermost regions (ors) of the eu, including the azores and madeira, agriculture is a strategic economic sector, not only because it is a major employer and engine of economic development, but also because it ensures food security, an important factor given the insular characteristics of these territories. i believe that increasing food self-sufficiency is fundamental to the ors and their regional development strategies, and i therefore voted in favour of this report. the financial allocation for the programme of specific options on remote and insularity (posei) remained at eur 653.04 million for all nine outermost regions of the eu. the autonomous regions of the azores and madeira receive eur 106.21 million from this envelope. in this posei review, the banana sector was one of the main beneficiaries with additional funding of €40 million. of this, the autonomous regions received eur 1.24 million. the other two sectors important to the azores and madeira, milk and meat, did not benefit from any additional gains from this revision of the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the union', as it contains proposals which will help to simplify and clarify the regulation in the light of the lisbon treaty and to make the support programmes for the outermost regions, in particular the azores and madeira, more effective in order to respond better to the economic difficulties inherent in their geographical situation.
in writing. - the ultraperipheral nature of some regions of the european union naturally affects the movement of people and goods and restricts their access to markets. fortunately, the union has not been insensitive to the special characteristics of these regions and has sought to provide them with aid mechanisms aimed at mitigating the consequences of their extreme peripheral location and promoting the unique characteristics and products of these regions and trade and contacts between similar regions. support for agriculture is particularly important in these cases. i would remind you of the natural apprehension of azorean producers due to the end of milk quotas and the uncertainties about the sustainability of the azorean economy, which is based to a large extent on that production. the economies of the outermost regions need special attention from regional, national and european decision-makers. at present there are serious doubts about the degree of protection afforded to them and creative and reproductive ways of doing so must be considered. i welcome the increase in posei for portugal and hope that this increase will contribute to an effective improvement in the quality of life of the population.
in writing. - the report by mr gabriel mato adrover deals with a set of specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the european union (eu). in 1991, the council adopted the programme of specific options for coping with remote and insularity (posei), which is in turn rooted in the objectives of the european union's (eu) cohesion policy in terms of reducing the regional asymmetries that continue to exist between the communities of central europe and the populations of the peripheral and outermost regions. imported products from third countries produced without respect for the social and environmental requirements imposed on farmers in the european union are destroying the competitiveness of european regional products, which can only be enforced through quality certification and protected designation of origin (pdo), but never through price. however, we know that most european consumers, especially in these times of crisis, are primarily concerned with price. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to support sustainable agricultural practices in the outermost regions so that these territories can conserve their populations, protect their cultural values and their historical and geographical heritage.
in writing. the report approves the proposal for a regulation laying down specific measures in the field of agriculture for the eu's outermost regions (ors) - which include madeira and the azores. the specific options programmes on remote and insularity (posei) aim to provide financial assistance for agricultural production and the processing industry, and there is a specific supply scheme for supply to livestock feed, the processing industry and direct consumption, subject to ceilings so as not to interfere with island productions. in addition, some 80% of the funds are used for measures to support local agricultural production, which is essential to maintain the viability of the activity. the report makes positive improvements on the commission proposal: the commission has also adopted a number of proposals to improve the legal basis for the ops and their specific features, and to strengthen the role and the resources of these programmes. we have long advocated these measures to support the ors, which compensate for the constraints and restrictions imposed on these regions. we therefore voted in favour of this report. however, we cannot fail to point out - as we did during the debate in the plenary - the inconsistencies in the eu's agricultural and trade policies which have so harmed these regions.
in writing. - the specific options programmes on remote and insularity (posei) were launched in 1991 to support the french overseas departments, and a year later to cover the outermost regions of portugal and spain. nine regions are currently covered by this measure: guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, réunion, saint-barthélemy and saint-martin (france), the azores and madeira for portugal, and the canary islands for spain. these programmes play an inseparable role in the maintenance and development of agricultural production and the processing industry in these areas. the viability of the beneficiary sectors would be threatened today without the existence of the posei programmes, due to the economic difficulties faced by these regions as a result of their geographical situation and the limited scope for diversifying their activity. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this proposal amends regulation (ec) no 247/2006, clarifying the objectives of the scheme and restructuring the text of the legislation to bring it into line with the provisions on delegated and implementing acts provided for in the lisbon treaty. the simplification effort is complemented by the introduction of some legislative changes aimed at correcting the shortcomings identified in recent years in the implementation of posei. the most important amendments are: an increase of 20% in the ceilings for aid granted to france and portugal under the eag for the supply of products for animal feedingstuffs, the processing industry and direct consumption to the outermost regions; making the eag subject to the requirement of avoiding any obstacles to the development of local production; and specifying the procedure for the submission of programmes and their amendments with a view to the approval of support programmes by the commission. given that it is the eu's responsibility to prevent the deterioration of the profitability of these citizens, i voted in favour, in the expectation that this proposal will benefit the azores and madeira.
in writing. − the outermost regions of the european union are regions with special characteristics which have a differentiated status under article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu. this status allows for derogation from the scheme by establishing specific measures to take account of the supply of these regions and to favour local production. under this reform of posei, the outermost regions will have an additional financial allocation to deal with the damage caused to regional banana production, taking into account trade agreements with third countries. in addition, a new method of calculating the quantities to be dispatched or exported is introduced, henceforth based on the average of the three best years between 2005 and 2012, a change to which i contributed. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the document, aware of the difficulties encountered in the trilogue to arrive at the best possible solution under this regime for the outermost regions.
in writing. the report approves the proposal for a regulation laying down specific measures in the field of agriculture for the eu's outermost regions (ors) , which include madeira and the azores. the specific options programmes on remote and insularity posei aim to provide financial assistance for agricultural production and processing industry, and there is also the specific supply scheme for livestock feed, processing industry and direct consumption, with ceilings to avoid interfering with island productions. the report makes positive improvements to the commission proposal, for example by restoring the legal basis for the ops and their specific features, and by strengthening the role and the appropriations for these programmes. we have long advocated these measures to support the ors, which compensate for the constraints and restrictions imposed on these regions. we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) for the european economy is indisputable. they are the great engine of the european economy, of economic growth, and they make a huge contribution to job creation in the 27 member states. with the crisis in europe, smes were severely affected by the severe restriction of access to credit, the problems inherent in the contraction of the economy, the non-payment by their debtors, the increase in taxes, the decrease in demand, etc. it is therefore agreed that, if smes are to be able to develop a healthy activity that promotes growth and job creation, it is essential to ensure that they have good access to credit. to that end, it should be ensured that creditors provide clear and transparent information and that the conditions for access to credit are facilitated and do not involve excessive burdens or restrictions. it is emphasised that as smes are very heterogeneous, different and alternative solutions should also be developed as regards their financing arrangements. private savings should also be encouraged. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) for the european economy is indisputable. they are the major engine of the european economy and are important drivers of economic growth, making a huge contribution to job creation in the 27 member states. with the onset of the economic crisis in europe, smes were severely affected by the severe restrictions on access to credit, the problems inherent in the contraction of the economy, whether the non-payment of their debtors, the increase in taxes, the decrease in demand, etc. it is therefore common ground that, if smes are to be able to develop a healthy activity that promotes growth and job creation, it is essential that good conditions be established for their access to credit. to that end, it is necessary to ensure that creditors provide clear and transparent information, that the conditions for access to credit are facilitated and do not involve excessive burdens or restrictions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'small enterprises' in the definition of the term 'small enterprises'. private savings should also be encouraged. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - as i have already had the opportunity to state on several occasions, smes play a crucial role in the european economic dynamic. i believe that access to finance for smes is essential if europe is to overcome the crisis it has entered and that we cannot continue to ask our fellow citizens for sacrifices without a growth strategy, even though growth and job creation are largely due to smes, so i voted in favour of this report. i recognize that the budgetary context is difficult, but i insist on the need to continue to defend the objective of growth and job creation, despite the limitations. and here again, micro and small enterprises, by creating jobs in their regions, are absolutely vital for the development of local communities, helping to reduce disparities and are therefore undoubtedly a structural element of cohesion policy. in a week when parliament and the council are debating the multiannual support framework 2014-2020 (no discouragement from the regional cohesion funds or the cap), i stress the importance of strengthening funding for the horizon 2020 and cosme programmes as a sign that smes are at the heart of european policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates measures to improve access to finance for smes in the eu member states. it is recalled that female entrepreneurship remains an untapped opportunity for growth and competitiveness in the eu and that all obstacles that continue to exclude women from the labour market need to be removed.
in writing. - the importance of smes in the european market and in the european economy is something that cannot be overlooked. it is recalled that they represent more than 98% of european enterprises and provide more than 67% of jobs, and between 2002 and 2010 they were directly responsible for 85% of new jobs in the eu. it is therefore vital that, in these troubled times in the eu, all the necessary efforts be redirected to improve the forms of financing available to this important sector of the economy. i would like to highlight, among others, the importance of capital markets specifically designed for smes in the euro area, such as nyse alternext. this market, which has been operating since 2005, has already enabled several smes to obtain funding of between eur 2,5 million and eur 15 million, demonstrating the impact that these markets can have as a form of financing for these companies. i think it would be essential for the commission to work more on this type of market, making it more accessible and attractive to both companies and investors, and to focus on developing more favourable tax regimes or creating own investment funds in partnership with the eib.
in writing. - it is often said that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the 'backbone' of the european economy. in fact, smes account for some 67% of employment in the whole of europe and represent 98% of the business fabric. with the financial crisis we are going through, smes have found themselves in a complicated situation with regard to their liquidity due to the lack of financing from financial institutions. banks have become more prudent and have created credit barriers making life difficult for smes, who thus feel powerless to contribute to economic growth and job creation. it is therefore imperative to make it easier for them to access credit and to reduce bureaucracy. the report by mr de backer focuses on ways of improving and facilitating access to finance for smes. i welcome the creation of the entrepreneurship 2020 and cosme programmes (competitiveness programme for enterprises and smes), which are key to boosting the economy and job creation. i believe that smes are the driving force of the european economy and i voted in favour of this report because, as many of them are young entrepreneurs, it is also a way of giving hope to young people and a step forward in overcoming the crisis.
in writing. - this report is based on a laudable concern and contains proposals that deserve our support: the financing needs of the real economy, especially smes; public guarantees and liquidity support from the ecb; the need to provide more training for small and medium-sized enterprises. but the report does not avoid glaring contradictions and omissions. the conditions under which free competition develops in the single market, favouring the suffocation of smes by monopolies; the so-called austerity policies which crush the wages and purchasing power of workers; the growth of unemployment and the consequent contraction of the internal market - are some examples of trends which have created enormous difficulties for smes and even led many of them to bankruptcy. an effective policy to support smes requires the reduction of high interest rates, the cost of factors of production such as energy, transport, communications, and others - which in turn requires public ownership and management of these key sectors of the economy - as well as the establishment of maximum margins to be applied by large companies to smes. it calls for lower taxes for smes, simplified procedures and reduced capital requirements for access to the structural funds.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are very important to the european union. they are an important pillar of the european economy and responsible for economic growth in the european union. smes make a major contribution to job creation in its 27 member states. but they are also the most vulnerable, as has become evident in the aftermath of the crisis. with the crisis, some lenders have become more cautious in lending to smes. in addition, new and restrictive rules on, for example, financial institutions and capital requirements implemented by both the eu and national authorities have made it more difficult for smes to access credit. we must therefore find new mechanisms to facilitate access to finance for smes so that they can once again play the important role they have always played in economic growth and job creation.
in writing. the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) for the european economy is undeniable. they are the main engine of the economy and are the drivers of economic growth, making a huge contribution to job creation in the 27 member states. with the onset of the economic crisis in europe, smes were severely affected by the severe restriction on access to credit resulting from the problems inherent in the contraction of the economy: either by the non-payment of their debtors, the increase in taxes, or the decrease in demand, etc. it is therefore common ground that, if smes are to be able to develop a healthy activity that promotes growth and job creation, it is essential that good conditions be established for their access to credit. to do this, we must ensure that creditors provide clear and transparent information and that the conditions for access to credit are easy and do not involve excessive burdens or restrictions. in conclusion, parliament, taking account of the heterogeneity of smes, recommended that different and alternative solutions be developed for the financing of smes. private savings should also be encouraged. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the engine of the european economy and the main generators of employment. as such, the socioeconomic success of the union as a whole is largely dependent on the ability of smes to remain competitive in the global market. the support provided by the member states and the union to banking institutions, resulting from the recent and ongoing economic and financial crisis, should therefore be reflected in the provision of credit to smes. we must not forget that smes have also been affected by the crisis and have nevertheless been faced with the difficulty of accessing bank credit to continue developing their activity. the development of initiatives and programmes adapted to the heterogeneous business reality which constitutes the european economic fabric is necessary. the union, within the framework of the eu 2020 strategy, should develop initiatives to facilitate entrepreneurship, development and financing of smes in the area of innovation, while ensuring conditions of competitiveness and financing for all smes in adverse macroeconomic situations. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - this report is based on a laudable concern and includes some proposals which deserve our support, namely: the compulsory transfer of state aids, public guarantees and liquidity support from the ecb to the so-called real economy by private banks, the need to provide more training for small and medium-sized enterprises. there is, however, a huge contradiction that this report does not resolve: improving access to finance, without a policy that puts an end to the eu internal market (which puts monopolies and smes in totally unfair competition), that counters the impoverishment of workers, the growth of unemployment, the contraction of the internal market in many eu countries, will not only not be a solution for smes but will also result in over-indebtedness of companies and individuals, more unemployment and bankruptcies. an effective policy to support smes requires the reduction of high interest rates, the costs of production factors such as energy, transport, communications, etc. (formerly public sectors now in the hands of large national and foreign companies), and the establishment of maximum margins to be applied by large companies to smes. it calls for lower taxes for smes, simplified procedures and equity requirements for access to the structural funds.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, i would first like to underline the importance of the report on europe's growth prospects for 2013. we wanted this text to be dealt with by the commission, incorporating our contributions, and we still hope that this will happen because at the spring european council in march the decisions that will be taken in that council will shape the national reform programmes, the stability and convergence programmes and will be a key part of the new statute of the european semester. it is with this document that the semester begins and it is on this process of coordination of economic policies that the national and european parliaments must strengthen democratic control. unfortunately, unlike the other speakers, i have come to the plenary with an extreme position on the economic and monetary committee. the right-wing majority in this committee refused to negotiate on the report and yesterday, against my opinion and against my vote and against the vote of my political group, adopted a text which was cut from the messages we considered essential. we are at a critical moment in european life. the slight recovery in growth in 2010 was wiped out by the austerity agenda. in the spring of 2011, the euro area was forecast to grow by 1.8% in the year ending 2012. we ended up with a recession of -0.4%. for 2013, very weak growth is forecast - 0.1 - but the international monetary fund is probably right when it predicts a recession of -0.2%. the imbalances within europe and in particular in the euro area are reaching unsustainable levels. the six pack procedure on macroeconomic imbalances shows the systematic current account surpluses of three countries - luxembourg, the netherlands and germany - while the entire periphery is running uncontrollable deficits. the scale of the adjustment procedures required for the weakest countries has reached absolutely exceptional levels, with 18 adjustment points for greece, 7.5 for portugal, 6.5, requiring much more than what is required under european legislation. it is no wonder that we now have 27 million unemployed, 10 million of them young, concentrated in the periphery of europe which is increasingly becoming a major supplier of cheap, skilled labour to the rest of europe. in these circumstances, should the european parliament be left without a clear message? i hope not! i see no problem, and i will end here, mr president, i see no problem in asking the commission to review the multipliers implicit in its models, to adjust its recommendations according to the results it obtains and to combat fraud and tax evasion and i hope that by the final vote, which will take place the day after tomorrow, these principles can be accepted by the majority of this house because that is our responsibility to the european citizens.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law. - first of all, of course, speaking here as rapporteur of the committee on constitutional affairs on the european semester, i would like to draw attention to our conclusions, which are essentially institutional conclusions. firstly, the european parliament must intervene even before the commission's position is defined and, in this sense, the european parliament must prepare and monitor the priorities, so it must be consulted by the commission on the annual growth analysis. we think it is very important that national parliaments should also be taken into account, and in particular that they should be able to engage in interparliamentary dialogue with the european parliament - as just happened last week - and that they should be able to adopt their budgetary procedures in two stages, so that they have a stage in which the intervention of the national parliaments is useful. finally, i would also like to draw attention to the fact that we support the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the council, the commission and the european parliament to regulate aspects of the semester, in particular the commission's obligations to justify and the council's obligations to justify when it deviates from the commission's proposal. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. - mr president, i would like to know if you are aware that all the amendments which your committee has tabled, which i consider very important and which i have included in my report, were defeated yesterday by the vote of your own political group. and what is your reaction to that?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i am fully aware of that, madam president. now, here i am responsible for representing the position of the committee on constitutional affairs and that is what i am doing here. i am not even here to represent the position of the epp. i am here as rapporteur for the committee on constitutional affairs and as such i have the duty to defend the position that was defended there and not to take sides in this debate, but to give it a constitutional approach. that's my obligation. i have done so and i must say that i am obviously sorry that these suggestions have not been followed up, but i will not take part in this debate, i will simply be the spokesman for my committee.
he asks under the blue card procedure. - i could not but take the opportunity to have an opportunity for the first time to discuss with mr gauzès, who is my shadow, my report, because it had been impossible so far. i would just like to ask you two questions: firstly, how does the position of europeanists, such as yourself, the epp and even the liberals, differ from that of the ecr, which are eurosceptic? what's the difference, since you signed the amendments all together? and secondly, does the european people's party not agree to make a recommendation on the fight against tax evasion?
he asks under the blue card procedure. - to welcome the opportunity also to debate for a minute with the honourable member, since he was my shadow rapporteur and it was also not possible to work with him, but to ask him if he is aware that with the amendments which were voted in committee yesterday, we are not making any recommendation to the commission, because the whole chapter on recommendations has been cancelled and therefore we are refraining from recommending anything to the commission in the form that the report has now taken after the vote of his political group in conjunction with the eurosceptics and the epp party.
he asks under the blue card procedure. - mr eppink, i am very pleased that we have such different, such divergent positions. i would like to ask you, mr president, whether you are aware that the commission has been working on this matter for some time. will you vote in favour of the report with the amendments that are in it and that you voted yesterday on the european budget?
for the gue/ngl group i would also like to refer to the report which was adopted yesterday by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. as has already been said, this is a report adopted from an extreme position, where there was no compromise and therefore the proposal of the right was met with the proposal of the left. mr gauzès, my colleague, said that this was a report reflecting the thinking of the epp, the liberals and the conservatives. i would have many things to say to reflect on this report, but i would like to bring up only one: the problem is that this report does not even for a moment question the recipe. so austerity is virtuous, there is no question, the recipes are failing but the problem is not the recipe itself, it is the people who execute this recipe. there is even a paragraph in the report which deplores the failure of some countries to comply with the measures. now, i wonder, in this light if you don't question the recipe, what are you lamenting? if you are not deploring the governments in power in these countries, what are you deploring? the people who are making sacrifices to implement that same recipe? what are we talking about? let us take the case of portugal, for example. theoretically, everything is fine, theoretically, every time the troika goes, it says that the evaluations are great, theoretically, the government is proud to be the exemplary student, and yet, it is not failing? the unemployment rate is rising at record rates and we are entering an ever-increasing territory of deficit and debt erosion. so if it is not the recipe that fails, it is the people, ladies and gentlemen? (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. yeah, but it seems like we're confusing a lot of things here because we totally disagree. i understand that austerity is not compatible with growth and, of course, we have a brutal difference in that. but i am sorry to inform you, mr president, that when interest rates have fallen, for example on the sovereign debt of countries, it is not because of the beneficial effect of austerity measures, often it is because of statements by the president of the ecb, but not because of the success of austerity policies. and so we have completely opposite views on this and no, austerity in the terms in which it is being applied is not necessary and is not to be confused with clarity of public accounts, is not to be confused with transparency of public accounts because we are all in favour of that, surely. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i am sorry, mr gauzès, that his statements do not coincide with the forecasts of the imf, for example, which expects the economic contraction to be greater than initially forecast, and with the systematic forecasts of the european commission, which have to be revised because they predict a growth rate but in reality it turns out that it will not be growth but recession. mr gauzès, we are already at a time when germany itself is entering recession and this is not just a problem of the supposedly defaulting countries, this is a european problem and either we are going down the wrong path or we are saying goodbye to the european project. it's as simple as that.
the fontagné report is distinguished from the commission's 2013 annual growth survey in one key respect: the commission is openly acknowledging that the scourge of unemployment, the growth of poverty and social exclusion is due to the impact of so-called fiscal consolidation and this is important, and it would be even more so if the proposed solution were not also to continue with the implementation of fiscal consolidation measures. and herein lies the basic contradiction of the report, namely, the art of trying to be and not be something at the same time. the fact is that the budgetary consolidation measures are aimed at and actually implemented every day, a reduction in wages, redundancies, cuts in public investment, which are contrary to economic growth and therefore responsible for the increase in unemployment rates. we cannot be in favour of the sustainability of the pension system and at the same time advocate the flexibility of the labour market, which means precarious and unstable contracts, which jeopardise that very stability. the importance of promoting quality jobs cannot be stressed too much and at the same time accept the temporary and parttime work model, which will inevitably lead workers down the road to unemployment, and endorse the commission's language on the alignment of wages with productivity, which obviously means a reduction in wage levels. will the reductions in social security contributions, as proposed by the commission and endorsed in this report, contribute to the quality of employment and the sustainability of the pension system? of course not because they are very and simply opposites. we have in fact proposed alternatives and not followed them, increases in wages and pensions and various measures which were rejected by the majority of this parliament in committee.
i think this is not only an important but also a difficult debate: important because it involves a european spirit, difficult because today we have many citizens who suffer and suffer a lot. that is why we must combine the two aspects of the stability and growth pact: stability and growth. how that's done is a legitimate question. it is done by recognising that sound public accounts are a necessary condition for sustainable growth, and it is done, as has already been done, by using the instruments that the stability and growth pact gives for flexibility. flexibility which has already been used in relation to greece, spain, portugal and ireland, and i would like to stress that, for example, portugal and ireland are able to go to the markets and see their exports grow because they are complying. these are early signs, but they are very, very relevant signs at this point. we cannot put everything into question, we cannot go towards a situation where growth is only achieved with more deficit and more debt. that model is what has brought us to the situation we are in right now. that is the model that should not be sustained. the way must be different, it must certainly be a way of investing, of combating fraud and tax evasion, as provided for in the report that was voted. it has to be a way of having companies to make economies grow and it has to be a way of a word to our citizens of confidence and encouragement about the future. i'll end by looking at this room with a debate that's been so heated and saying that the fact that i haven't been asked any questions about what i see makes me feel certain to be alone. i have a feeling of loneliness but nothing takes away from those who are my convictions.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, 40 years after the washington convention was signed, it is essential that the parties renew their commitments to 'ensure that trade in wild animals and plants and products derived from them does not endanger the survival of species or constitute a danger to the maintenance of biodiversity'. regulation and sustainable management of international trade in wildlife contribute to the preservation of biodiversity and to the economic and social well-being of local communities. despite the progress made, we have seen an increase in elephant and rhino poaching, driven by demand for ivory and rhino horn in asia. it is estimated that tens of thousands of elephants are killed in africa each year, and in 2012 alone, some 700 rhinos were also killed in south africa. tigers and other large asian cats, listed in cites annex i, are also still subject to illegal trade. i would also like to corroborate what the president of the envi commission has said here about bluefin tuna being included in annex i. i also support the need for the european union and the member states to speak with one voice and to present an ambitious position. the strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020, set out in the framework of the convention on biological diversity, provides that by 2020 the extinction of threatened species is to be avoided and that all fish, invertebrate and aquatic plant populations are to be managed in a sustainable and legal manner. it also calls for the need to avoid overfishing and the negative impacts of fishing on vulnerable species and ecosystems.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, what we are discussing here today is no more than 6% of a cup of coffee a day for every european citizen. that's right! the budget of the european institutions represents no more than 6% of the total european budget, which is about 50 times less than the sum of the national budgets, the cup of coffee. but even when we discuss the guidelines for 6% of the budget, we are talking about political choices, choices which the rulers of this europe have decided would be austerity, choices which in this particular debate are called rationalisation of resources. the commission, through commissioner lewandowski, is calling for 5% cuts in human resources. the council has also indicated that, in parallel with the discussion of the multiannual financial framework, it is preparing a document on new rules for the staff of the institutions, insisting also on the rationalisation of resources, and these cuts are incomprehensible when we are increasing our powers, when we are enlarging the union by one more member state and when we are promising a bigger and better europe. what they have in store for us is aridity! the rationalization of resources means reducing jobs and making employment relations precarious. the work of translators and interpreters, for example, is absolutely indispensable, not only for the quality of the work of members, but also to ensure multilingualism, which is one of the pillars of european solidarity. this is a vital task for all citizens, for all those who, although they do not have a seat in this parliament, have every right to know and to take part in the work that is being done here. finally, i would remind you that this is the european year of citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the european union is essentially earmarked for investment. it is always worth remembering that the operating and administrative expenditure of all the institutions of the european union represents only about 6% of the budget of the european union. there is no other institution or organisation in the european union, in any member state, that i know of that has this performance. i would remind you that although the budget of the european union represents only 1% of gdp, it has a huge added value and in several member states it represents more than 50% of national investment. the budget must therefore reflect effective solidarity and foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as regards the european parliament's budget, our aim remains legislative excellence, which requires minimal resources. failure to achieve this goal always comes at a cost which is reflected in the lives of each citizen. we are not indifferent to the moment of restraint in most member states. the proof is that the budget of the european parliament, in real terms, has been reduced over the years. this was only possible through greater control and greater rigour both in budget planning and in budget implementation. it is also noted that all members' allowances at the 2011 level have been frozen until the end of the current term of office. this has been achieved despite the new powers resulting from the treaty of lisbon and the costs of croatian accession, and i would like to congratulate the members who are already part of this parliament, albeit as observers. this rigorousness does not, of course, undermine the objective of legislative excellence or multilingualism. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and the excellent work she has done on this subject.
i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner and his fellow rapporteurs on their communication and reports. in the modern society we live in, corporate social responsibility is of paramount importance. this is all the more important in the context of the current economic and, above all, social crisis. each company, in its socially responsible decision-making, must take account of the community in which it operates and the environment in which it operates, both at the environmental and social level. companies meet the needs of their customers but must also manage the expectations of workers, suppliers and the local community. and it is in their own interest that they should do so, whether in the interest of their business or to ensure long-term competitiveness. we want a cohesive society and sustainable economic growth. i agree, however, with the voluntary nature of corporate social responsibility and i think it is important that this social responsibility be widely promoted and integrated into the policies of the european union. to this end, it is also crucial to improve the social and environmental transparency of companies. i would like to end by stressing the importance of social responsibility in the education and training programmes of all future european entrepreneurs.
the question is: in times of crisis what are the real problems of workers? reduced wages, breach of collective agreements by the imposition of deregulation of working hours and hours, unnecessary dismissals and relocations that only serve to increase the profits of entrepreneurs, in other words, the debate is polluted. what is needed today is not declarations of good will but strict compliance with the legal obligations of companies in the field of labour rights, social protection, working conditions, health and safety at work, and it is the duty of the states to ensure this. the workers, in their daily struggles, do not demand any social responsibility from the companies, they only want their rights to be respected and fulfilled, and that would be enough for now.
mr. president, the next seven or eight days will decide our fate for the next seven years. it will decide whether or not our young people have a future, whether or not they have access to a university or a job, whether or not our grandchildren have schools, whether or not our old people have access to health care and medicine. in the next few days it will be decided whether or not we have a future together, a future with a future for all, or whether, on the contrary, there will only be a future for some because others will be left on the side of the road. there are countries in europe, as the president of the commission has already said, which today have no means of caring for the most vulnerable and needy and of integrating their young people. the president of the commission is no longer here, but i would like to ask the commission representative what he thinks the troika has done for these most vulnerable people. mr president, the president of the commission said that the budget of the european union must be ambitious and realistic, but it seems that what we are going to be asked to vote on is the litany that mr van rompuy is singing to us, namely that he wants to combine austerity and investment. now, the two things don't rhyme with each other. mrs creighton was saying earlier this morning that mr van rompuy's proposal has the support of the irish presidency. i would like to ask you whether you are avoiding uncertainty, whether you are giving hope by imposing a multiannual financial framework which, if it has so far only given us a minimal europe, will now give us a europe of refuge with this proposal. let's be responsible! it is our responsibility to work for the future of europe. the crisis is far from over and we will only have a future if we have the courage and ambition to implement a financial transaction tax decisively.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, i would like to answer that it is true that health issues are, in general, matters which are decided, which are the responsibility of the member states, but the problem is that europe does not have a social dimension and is increasingly lacking in this social dimension.
firstly, what i wanted to stress is that it is clear that the european parliament and, in particular, the ppe group will not be willing to accept a budget from the council which is a budget which means a retreat for the european union. and this must be very clear, it is supported by the cohesion countries and it is supported by the net taxpayers in the european parliament. all the members from the various countries want a stronger europe with a bigger budget. the first point is that the european union must be able to take action to help the countries of the south, and the second point is that the european union must be able to help the countries of the north. if there are no structural funds for these countries, there will be no investment because private investment is declining and public investment is conditioned by the financial situation of the countries. the support and solidarity of the european union are crucial if, with the necessary adjustment of public accounts, some growth is to be created and the recovery of these countries is to become sustainable. finally, i would like to say a word because we are also in favour of increased investment in research and development and, in particular, in programmes for young people, and the council cannot allow such structural programmes for the future of the european union as the erasmus programme and other youth programmes to be dropped over these two days.
as president barroso said, the multiannual financial framework is crucial for some member states to cope with the crisis and to invest in economic growth and jobs. this is the case in portugal, which is now under the rescue and supervision of the troika, and this is because a substantial part of the wealth produced by the portuguese continues to be appropriated by gangsters and diverted abroad under the cover of the fiscal jungle in the european union and global deregulation. the troika has turned a blind eye to the corruption and dysfunctions in the financial, tax and judicial systems which guarantee impunity to gangsters, and is now taking advantage of the imposed and forced privatisations. how can one understand that the troika endorsed the 2012 tax amnesty with which the government tried to protect individuals like the banker ricardo salgado, who forgot to declare millions in switzerland, and the shareholders of slm galileu, who do not pay the billions they owe to the state due to the monstrous fraud in the bpn? the government has allowed them to legalize capital abroad without having to repatriate it at a ridiculous rate of 7.5% without questioning its origin and assuring them of the protection of secrecy.
the debate on the next multiannual financial framework, which started with an already unacceptable proposal from the european commission, has, under pressure from the eu powers, led us to a level that is even more detrimental to the interests of countries like portugal. the biggest beneficiaries of the single market and common policies now want to crush the eu budget, leading for the first time to a reduction in real terms compared to the previous financial framework (2007-2013), and this in the context of a new enlargement of the eu. on the one hand, they want to deepen integration (single market, etc.), integration which, by its capitalist nature, leads to a dynamic of divergence. the community budget, the instrument par excellence designed to minimise this divergence or even to promote convergence, is reduced. so the result can only be one: more divergence! the constraints and disadvantages of the integration process are increasingly being felt by countries with weaker economies, such as portugal. the supposed benefits, increasingly, a mirage. the commission has also been unable to agree on the conditions for the use of community budget funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, agriculture and fisheries) at the macroeconomic level. another form of neo-colonial blackmail and cut-throat domination.
i tabled an oral amendment to remove the following words: and to ensure that the companies concerned have the appropriate means of redress in accordance with national procedures. the justification is that i asked for article 8 to be withdrawn and therefore, for the sake of consistency, this part of recital 9 should also be deleted.
in writing. − i support this recommendation, considering it essential first of all to enable the new member states of the european union to take full advantage of the european union's assistance in their integration process, and at the same time to support these countries to have the right conditions in the context of global trade. i therefore support this recommendation, which aims to adjust the european union's obligations under the world trade organisation rules following the accession of bulgaria and romania. the aim is to agree with the members of the world trade organisation a fair and mutually satisfactory adjustment so as to avoid losses for these new members of the union.
in writing. − with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the union has enlarged its customs union and, in accordance with wto rules, has been called upon to negotiate an agreement on a compensatory adjustment to satisfy all parties, balancing the gains and losses of all concerned. this adjustment should be made if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase in duties beyond the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. the most frequent instrument used to offset higher duties is the opening of the country-specific tariff quota or the addition of the pre-accession tariff quota. on 27 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to enter into negotiations with countries entitled to compensation, resulting in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with the united states, whereby the united states is compensated for its deteriorated trade position. the commission has chosen the increase in the tariff quotas as a compensatory instrument for products from the usa. i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report concluding the eu-us agreement in the world trade organisation (wto) on the modification of concessions in the schedules of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the eu. with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, in accordance with wto rules, it had to enter into negotiations with the wto members with negotiating powers on the lists of the new member states to agree on a compensatory adjustment that satisfies all parties and counterbalances the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the countries entitled to compensation. the negotiations with the united states have resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, which was initialled by the eu party on 21 december 2011 and by the us party on 17 february 2012 and is now being finalised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation to make the necessary amendments to the eu-us agreement, in accordance with gatt 1994, taking into account the enlargement of the customs union when romania and bulgaria joined the eu.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement with the united states, as i believe that the us has a right to have its trade rights restored, which had been slightly degraded by the enlargement of the customs union when romania and bulgaria joined the eu. this compensation agreement is an example of the eu's intention to respect the rules of the multilateral trade regime within the wto. the eu and the united states will notify each other of the completion of their respective internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the agreement.
in writing. - mr vital moreira presents a recommendation on the draft council decision concluding an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (eu) and the united states of america (us) pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions provided for in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the eu. this agreement follows negotiations between the eu and the members of the world trade organisation (wto), with delegated powers to do so, in order to make a compensatory adjustment between the parties. the draft agreement was signed by the eu on 21 december 2011 and by the us on 17 february 2012 and mainly covers poultry and pork meat. the eu's enlargement to include these two states has been beneficial to wto members and taking into account the rapporteur's opinion, i welcome the conclusion of this agreement with the usa and vote in favour of it.
in writing. - as a consequence of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, the latter had to extend its customs union. the wto rules require that an agreement be reached between the acceding parties aiming at a compensatory adjustment that counterbalances the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. our views on the wto rules are well known. the eu itself has recognised that, as a result of the agreement established in 2007 on poultry under article xxviii of gatt 1994, there has been a sharp increase in imports of poultry meat which has negatively affected the european poultry sector. one example among many possible. a fundamental change in the current trade policies is needed to put a stop to the deregulation and liberalisation of trade which has brought so many difficulties to the business fabric of weaker economies such as portugal. we cannot fail to point out that on this occasion.
in writing. - the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania has meant that the european union has had to extend its customs union. therefore, and in accordance with wto rules (article xxvi:6 of gatt 1994), the european union had to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating power on the lists of any of the acceding members in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment that would satisfy all parties and counterbalance the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. i therefore welcome the agreement with the united states and i vote in favour of it. the us is thus entitled to have its previous trade rights re-established, which were slightly degraded due to the enlargement of the customs union upon the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu.
in writing. - the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union has had the immediate effect of enlarging their customs union. consequently, in accordance with world trade organisation rules, the european union had to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating power on the lists of any of the acceding members to agree on a compensatory adjustment that satisfies all parties and counterbalances the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. eu enlargement has been generally positive for wto members and the necessary adjustments have been duly negotiated and are only dependent on the mutual notification between the parties of the completion of their respective internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the agreement. in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal to approve the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the modification of concessions provided for in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of the accession of these countries to the european union.
in writing. − with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the union has enlarged its customs union and, in accordance with wto rules, has been called upon to negotiate an agreement on compensatory adjustment. such adjustment is due if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime results in an increase exceeding the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. the most frequent instrument used to offset higher duties is the opening of the country-specific tariff quota or the increase of the existing ones. on 27 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to enter into negotiations with the countries entitled to compensation, resulting in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with the united states: the commission has not received any comments from the usa on the allegedly unfair trade practices of the union industry.
in writing. - with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, in accordance with wto rules, the european union had to enter into negotiations with wto members to agree on a compensatory adjustment that would satisfy all parties and counterbalance the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. to meet these requirements, two issues were addressed in the agreements: the offsetting of higher duties, for which the most frequently used instrument is the opening of the country-specific tariff quota or the increase of the existing ones; and the addition of the pre-accession tariff quota of bulgaria and romania to the existing union erga omnes quota. the products covered by the eu-us compensation agreement are mainly poultry and pigmeat and food preparations. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that the employment guidelines are of the utmost importance, and i would first of all like to stress one more point which is essential in my view: all member states should also pay particular attention to their national guidelines, particularly in states where severe economic and fiscal austerity is currently being practiced. it should be considered that the analysis of the member states' national reform programmes in the joint employment report shows that member states should continue to make every effort to meet the following priorities: increasing participation in economic activity and reducing structural unemployment by developing a skilled workforce, responding to labour market needs and promoting quality jobs and lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report so that the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 are kept stable until 2014 and taken into account by the member states in their employment policies. the coordination of member states' economic and employment policies is part of the europe 2020 strategy to strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness. in the next employment targets, member states should continue to make every effort to increase the labour force participation rate of men and women and to reduce unemployment. the development of a skilled workforce is another challenge facing member states in responding to labour market needs. to achieve this, it is essential to promote lifelong learning, improve the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increase participation in tertiary education. the promotion of social inclusion and the fight against poverty should continue to be a key priority in the policies of the european union.
in writing. − the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (which is annexed to the council decision of 21 october 2010 as drafted by the european commission in the context of the europe 2020 strategy) should be maintained for 2013 and taken into account by the member states in order to achieve greater coordination on employment, in particular by promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that respond quickly to economic change. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the employment guidelines should be consistent with the broad economic policy guidelines. by coordinating these two policies, it will be possible to develop a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion, as envisaged in strategy 2020. i agree with this report, which i am voting for, and i would stress its importance and its emphasis on one of the most relevant and urgent policies of the union at the moment: employment policy.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis presents an unprecedented challenge in terms of increased unemployment and social exclusion, with the european employment strategy and the employment guidelines being the main instruments in the framework of the lisbon strategy with the aim of overcoming the challenges posed by the labour market. a strong and coordinated response is needed to promote increased employment, productivity and competitiveness, while strengthening social cohesion. these guidelines thus constitute shared targets for member states and provide them with precise guidance for the definition of their national reform programmes and the implementation of those reforms, in particular by setting out the priorities for macroeconomic, microeconomic and labour market reforms for the union as a whole. the tfeu provides that member states are to regard their economic policies and the promotion of employment as matters of common interest and coordinate them within the council. therefore, although the guidelines were adopted in 2010 and should remain stable until 2014, this decision is necessary in order to confirm their validity for 2013 and to recommend that member states take them into account in their employment policies for that year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the employment guidelines adopted in 2010, which were part of the integrated guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy, should be maintained until 2014. i believe that the priorities set in 2010 for employment policies remain valid, provide important guidance to member states on the definition of their national reform programmes and are also in line with the stability and growth pact.
in writing. - the tfeu provides for the adoption by the council of general guidelines for economic policies (article 121) and employment policies (article 148). the priorities for the employment policies of the member states were adopted on 21 october 2010 and should remain stable until 2014, in particular because their objectives and priorities remain relevant. however, in accordance with article 148 (2) tfeu, its validity for 2013 has to be confirmed by a council decision. in this sense, and because of the importance of this parliament in the democratic construction of the union, if the council wishes to depart from the text adopted in 2010, it should involve and consult parliament in the process of amending it.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy, launched by the european commission and endorsed by the european council on 26 march 2010, aims to 'strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness'. this report focuses on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (ms), in accordance with articles 121 and 148 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which provide that the council is responsible for coordinating the economic policies of the ms and for defining employment guidelines. although the employment guidelines were adopted on 21 october 2010 and are to remain stable until 2014, article 148 (2) tfeu states that the council shall, annually and after consulting the european parliament, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the employment committee, define the guidelines to be taken into account by the member states in their employment policies. in this context, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council decision to apply the employment guidelines adopted by the council on 26 march 2010 to the year 2013.
in writing. − the committee on employment and social affairs makes recommendations on an annual basis on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. these guidelines have essentially not changed significantly since 2010. in general terms, the discourse that welcomes fiscal consolidation policies as necessary and even desirable, provided they are pro-growth, continues - a miraculous conciliation that reality is showing to be nothing more than a grotesque contradiction. in any case, nothing new: the usual manoeuvres in which social democracy is lavish and which the right applauds. as long as we insist on implementing labour reforms, the social security system, raising the retirement age, lowering wages and withdrawing workers' rights, we will continue to see the growth of unemployment, particularly among young people, poverty and social inequalities. we do not accept the continuation of these policies and we demand new guidelines for the employment policies of the member states which do not attack the established rights of workers, the right to collective bargaining and acquired social rights. so we voted against it.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy enables the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the broad objectives must be common to all and guide the action of the member states, taking account of the starting points and the situation of each of them and of the union. the european employment strategy has a key role to play in delivering the objectives of the new strategy on employment and the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which endorses the proposal put forward by the european commission which stresses the need for full implementation of the strategy for jobs and growth, commonly known as the 'europe 2020' strategy. this strategy is based on greater coordination of economic policies and focuses on the key areas where action is needed to strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness, of which science and innovation are particularly important.
in writing. − the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (which is annexed to the council decision of 21 october 2010 as drafted by the european commission in the context of the europe 2020 strategy) should be maintained for 2013 and taken into account by the member states in order to achieve greater coordination on employment, in particular by promoting a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce and labour markets that respond quickly to economic change. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the employment guidelines are to be consistent with the broad economic policy guidelines, each of the above policies being broken down into two separate but intrinsically linked legal instruments, the coordination and implementation of which is to lead to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the economy, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the adoption of the proposal for a council decision is essential, as the emphasis on the implementation of the policies depends on their stability by 2014, as provided for in the 2010 adoption decision.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet. i would remind you that the guidelines are specific to the member states as regards the definition of their national reform programmes and the implementation of those reforms, which are in line with the stability and growth pacts. given the current economic situation in the eu and the present need to maintain the employment policy guidelines in order to consolidate the basis for sustainable growth in the union, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament makes annual recommendations on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. however, as in previous years, the political majority represented in this commission has refused to discuss new recommendations, preferring to continue with the 2010 employment policy guidelines, without proposing the necessary changes to economic and social policy that the dramatic social situation we are living in requires. as long as we insist on implementing labour reforms in order to liquidate the social security system, with the aim of introducing flexicurity, raising the retirement age, lowering wages and withdrawing workers' rights, we will continue to see the growth of unemployment, particularly among young people, poverty and social inequalities. we do not accept the continuation of these policies and we demand new guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, guidelines which do not attack but defend the established rights of workers, the right to collective bargaining and acquired social rights.
in writing. - i welcome the commission proposal and its main provisions in the context of the current constraints, including financial ones, under which the competent authorities have to decide on the pricing and reimbursement of medicines. i believe that the general objective of this proposal should be to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify and ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation in decisions on pricing and reimbursement and on obstacles to trade in pharmaceutical products. as a matter of priority, i would like to stress the need to strengthen the provisions relating to the transparency of the decision-making process and the decisions taken, which is a growing demand from society. i therefore suggest a set of additional measures, in particular the obligation for the competent authorities to disclose the names and declarations of interests of experts who are members of the decision-making bodies of the competent authorities. those provisions, as well as increased public access to documents and information, aim to enhance the transparency, integrity and independence of decisions taken and should ultimately strengthen trust in the public authorities responsible at national level.
in writing. − this report provides for a comprehensive update of directive 89/105/eec, with the aim of ensuring the transparency of national measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national health insurance systems. the provisions of the directive in question reflect conditions which prevailed on the pharmaceutical market more than 20 years ago and which have since undergone profound changes. examples include the emergence of generic medicines that offer cheaper alternatives to brand-name medicines or the development of increasingly innovative research-based medicines. in this regard, it is necessary to strengthen the provisions relating to the transparency of the decision-making process and of the decisions taken and to oblige the competent authorities to disclose the names and declarations of interests of experts who are members of the decision-making bodies. the appeal procedures in case of failure to meet the deadlines for the inclusion of medicinal products in national health insurance systems should remain administrative and, in case of unjustified delays, be referred to the relevant administrative or judicial body in accordance with national law. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − i agree in general terms with this report which supports the european commission's proposal to update the existing legislative framework on the pricing and transparency of medicinal products for human use in order to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of the legislation in force. it will be important to ensure that the law provides scope for promoting the introduction of generic medicines on the market, encouraging research and development of new medicines and facilitating access to affordable treatments for all patients in europe. ensuring transparency in the decision-making process is essential, particularly in the case of price setting, as it strengthens trust in the bodies responsible. this report also proposes that the commission proposal be amended in order to ensure a practical and effective implementation of the provisions envisaged and to give the national competent authorities the necessary level of flexibility and autonomy to comply with the requirements of this directive. the principle of proportionality should also be guaranteed. this proposal is positive and is another step towards ensuring safe and effective health policies, which are patient-centred and value-creating.
in writing. − member states are responsible for organising their health systems, the provision of healthcare and the allocation of resources allocated to them, but should always do so in full compliance with the minimum conditions established at eu level in terms of the quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products, but also in such a way as to ensure their compatibility with the rules of the internal market and the principle of the free movement of goods. the directive laying down minimum requirements to ensure the transparency of pricing and reimbursement measures adopted by the member states is no longer appropriate to the current conditions on pharmaceutical markets. i support this updating of the existing legislative framework, introducing greater transparency and legal certainty. these minimum procedural requirements should help to promote the production of medicinal products, the placing on the market of generic medicinal products and to encourage research and development of new medicinal products by facilitating access to affordable treatment for all patients in europe. i believe that the proposed requirements, in order to ensure timely and transparent decisions, strike the necessary balance between the obligation to preserve the competences of the member states in the field of public health and the need to ensure the effectiveness of the directive in the context of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the transparency of measures regulating the prices of medicinal products for human use, because it includes proposals to update the existing legislative framework in order to provide greater transparency and legal certainty, to encourage research and development of new medicinal products and to facilitate access to affordable treatment for all patients in europe.
in writing. - directive 89/105/eec on the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products has never been revised, although market conditions and health policies have changed substantially over the last 20 years. i therefore recognise the relevance of this revision and updating of the existing legislation, which maintains, and does, the principle of the autonomy of the states in regulating the formation of prices and the conditions for reimbursement (participation) of medicines. however, important changes are introduced with regard to (i) adapting the time limits for pricing and reimbursement decisions, (ii) clarifying the relationship between pricing and reimbursement procedures and intellectual property rights and the marketing authorisation procedure, and (iii) establishing certain instruments to facilitate dialogue and the application of the directive and to ensure its effective enforcement.
in writing. - this report generally welcomes the commission proposal and the main provisions, based on a thorough analysis of the current conditions on the pharmaceutical markets and the current context and constraints, including financial constraints, under which the competent authorities have to decide on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. it is therefore foreseen that national decisions on the price and reimbursement of generic medicines can be taken within 60 days. in the case of new medicinal products, the time limit shall be 180 days. the studies carried out have shown that these decisions can currently take up to 250 days for generic medicines and up to 700 days for innovative medicines. this proposal should lead to significant savings for public health budgets and create a more predictable framework for pharmaceutical companies and consequently provide citizens with better access to these products. this report responds to a growing demand from society, particularly when it comes to the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products.
in writing. − member states are responsible for the organisation of their health systems and for the allocation of resources allocated to them, including in the area of medicines. that is the way it is and that is the way it should remain. the rapporteur's proposal, following the european commission's proposal, on the pretext of the necessary transparency in the pricing of medicines (which we do not contest) and developments in the pharmaceutical sector, with the development of new medicines, ends up by subordinating the interests of the member states and the interests of citizens to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. if the deadlines now set for member states to decide on the price and the reimbursement system for each medicinal product are not met, the pharmaceutical industry has, at the very least, the power to unilaterally impose its price on the states. the proposal also implies limitations, which we consider serious, on the sovereignty of the member states in the areas of reassessment of the safety, efficacy and quality of medicines. our group has tabled amendments to the report to safeguard the member states' powers and to prevent unacceptable penalties which will further affect public health services - already the target of an insidious process of progressive dismantling at the hands of the troika, the occupier and the collaborationist. these amendments were rejected by a majority. so we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − i believe that the main objective of this proposal should be to update and improve the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations incumbent on member states, ensuring the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation, as regards the prevention of delays in decisions on pricing and reimbursement and of obstacles to trade in pharmaceutical products. the need to strengthen the provisions relating to the transparency of the decision-making process and the decisions taken, which represents a growing demand from society, particularly when it comes to the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, should be stressed. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the transparency of measures regulating the prices of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national health insurance systems, as i agree with the commission proposal and its main provisions. the main provisions of this proposal include a detailed analysis of the current conditions on the pharmaceutical markets and of the current context and constraints, including financial constraints, in order to define the framework within which the competent authorities must decide on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. it seems to me to be a well-thought-out and appropriate strategy.
in writing. − the general objective of this proposal for a directive is to update the existing legislative framework by adapting it to the current pharmaceutical framework and keeping the fundamental principles of the directive in force with the following adaptations: clarification of the scope; further clarification of the relationship between pricing decisions and intellectual property rights and the resulting marketing authorisation procedure; introduction of additional requirements ensuring greater transparency (e.g. public availability of information and documents); and adjustments and additions to the provisions on time limits proposed by the commission in order to ensure practical and effective implementation of the provisions envisaged and to give the necessary level of flexibility and autonomy to the national competent authorities. the ultimate objective of the adoption of a framework of minimum procedural requirements is to facilitate access to affordable treatment for all patients in europe by strengthening trust in the responsible authorities at national level. the rapporteur's suggestion of additional measures includes an obligation for the competent authorities to disclose the names and declarations of interests of experts who are members of the decision-making bodies concerned. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the directive on transparency in the regulation of the prices of medicinal products for human use and its inclusion in national systems needs to be updated, as the current directive dates from 1989. this means that the current legislation does not take account of the changes which have taken place in the pharmaceutical sector over the last quarter of a century. although the regulation of prices and the methods of reimbursement of the value of medicinal products are the exclusive competence of the member states, i believe that there should be a minimum regulation common to all countries in order to ensure legal certainty and transparency. such amendments to the directive should also ensure the promotion of the production and entry into the market of generic medicinal products and ensure high levels of research and development by the pharmaceutical industry in relation to new medicinal products and products. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − member states are responsible for the organisation of their health systems and for the allocation of resources allocated to them, including in the area of medicines. that is the way it is and that is the way it should remain. the rapporteur's proposal, following the european commission's proposal, on the pretext of the necessary transparency in the pricing of medicines (which we do not contest) and developments in the pharmaceutical sector with the development of new medicines , ends up subordinating the interests of the member states and citizens to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. if the deadlines now set for member states to decide on the price and the reimbursement system for each medicinal product are not met, the pharmaceutical industry has, at the very least, the power to unilaterally impose its price on the states. the proposal also implies limitations, which we consider serious, on the sovereignty of the member states in the areas of reassessment of the safety, efficacy and quality of medicines.
in writing. − the new reform of the common fisheries policy must ensure genuinely regionalised management, taking into account the diversity of fleets, fishing gear and stocks in each country and fishing zone. it should also respect the rights of regions over their territorial waters, exclusive economic zones (eezs) and adjacent seabed. it is also essential to protect the interests of coastal and small-scale fisheries in a lasting way. as far as the oct are concerned, it is undeniable that the principles and rules of the common fisheries policy are not adapted to the realities of these regions. the commission must bear in mind that these are maritime areas shared with the member states of the union and that, for the outermost regions, maritime areas are shared with the acp states. the reform of the common fisheries policy must also ensure the essential maintenance of the posei-fisheries financial regime and an intelligent link between the emff and posei-fisheries.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy (cfp) has proved ineffective in solving longstanding problems: overfishing, overcapacity, the weak economic situation of many fisheries enterprises, social problems caused by the decline of fisheries in many coastal regions. the new regulation should therefore create an ambitious framework to reverse the persistent negative trend and enable the sustainability and success of the european fisheries sector. the strategy is structured around eight pillars: 1) maximum sustainable yield or msy; 2) obligation to land all catches/no return; 3) a transparent system of individual and collective fishing concessions; 4) reduction of overcapacity; 5) regionalization/consultation of stakeholders; 6) additional stock replenishment measures to oblige member states to close 10 to 20% of their waters to fishing activities within three years; 7) transitional measures for the mediterranean sea; and 8) partnerships with third countries for the purpose of common fisheries management. i voted against this report because it shows that the environmental aspect is still being prioritised, the social and economic pillars are being underestimated, and i do not agree with the requirements imposed under the msy/msy framework and the law banning discarding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy, because it includes measures which will contribute to the recovery of stocks, in particular by preventing overfishing and the return of unwanted catches, with a view to improving the environmental, economic and social sustainability of fishing activities.
in writing. − fisheries are essential to the livelihoods of many populations and fish consumption is increasingly necessary for a healthy diet by consumers. the european commission has repeatedly stated that the objectives of the common fisheries policy are to protect stocks against overfishing, to guarantee fishermen an income, to ensure that consumers and the processing industry are regularly supplied at reasonable prices, and to exploit living marine resources in a biologically, environmentally and economically sustainable way. the mere statement of objectives makes it clear how difficult it is to defend all of them in a balanced way. the european union has been divided, broadly speaking, into 'friends of fishermen' and 'friends of fisheries', a dichotomy that must be overcome. i believe that any common fisheries policy which is inflexible and which ignores its main and most direct target groups is bound to fail. the lack of flexibility in the rules, which were too stringent and burdensome for individual fishermen, did not have this concern. this circumstance, which i regret very much, forced me to vote against.
in writing. - the european parliament (ep) has long called for urgent action to revise the common fisheries policy (cfp) of the european union (eu). our concern for the sustainability of fisheries resources, the preservation of biodiversity and the guarantee of minimum living conditions for fishing communities was at the heart of our request. in fact, it is imperative to stop the dumping of thousands and thousands of tonnes of fish into the sea and to restore endangered species. in addition, there are many other opportunities for exploiting marine species, such as aquaculture, which can ensure the supply of markets without endangering stocks. the report under review, drawn up by mrs ulrike rodust, focuses on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the cfp. i hope that this whole process will be completed during the irish presidency and that by the year 2020 we will have more fishing opportunities and more jobs in the sector.
in writing. - this report is a key part of the future common fisheries policy (cfp). this regulation will have profound implications for the future of the sector, starting with portugal - the eu country with the largest eez. despite the improvements made to the commission's initial proposal, such as the abolition of transferable fishing concessions, the document now adopted does not solve the main problems facing national fisheries and may even create new problems. it insists on a centralised management of the cfp, far removed from the complex and diverse reality of eu fisheries. despite the necessary setting of environmental objectives in line with current scientific recommendations, which we have supported, the socioeconomic dimension of fisheries policy is clearly neglected, which will bring obvious damage to small-scale fishing segments and to countries such as portugal where it is very prevalent. small-scale fishing is treated very unsatisfactorily in this regulation. it is significant that any reference to this segment of the fleet has been removed, contrary to the guidelines contained in the ferreira report on small-scale fishing, recently approved by this parliament. for these reasons, and because we understood that the defence of national interests required it, we voted against.
in writing. - the current common fisheries policy (cfp) has not yet been able to solve some of the problems that have been lingering for some years, such as overfishing, overcapacity, the weak economic situation of many of the fisheries companies, and the social problems caused by the decline of fisheries in many coastal regions. this new basic regulation should help to create an ambitious framework to reverse this situation and enable the sustainability and success of the european fisheries sector. we are facing an ambitious objective which we can only achieve with the help of all those concerned in this important economic sector.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. however, the maximum sustainable yield tax which obliges fishermen to 'ensure that stocks are maintained above levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield' does not strike the balance that the european people's party would like to ensure for voters. as regards the three pillars of the cfp, i would argue that the prohibition of discards and the obligation to land all catches would be impossible to comply with in the case of the mixed fisheries characteristic of southern europe where size selection is difficult and requires a separate study investigating the current situation/impact of discards in each fishery before such procedures can be regulated. in view of the above, and in view of the deadline that the report sets for the implementation of the prohibitions, i voted against the proposal for a regulation, because if it were adopted it would entail the danger of non-compliance, worsening in terms of sanctions for portuguese fishermen, who are not prepared for the implementation of this measure.
in writing. − the reform of the common fisheries policy is one of the most awaited reforms within the european union in the next multiannual period. as an area of exclusive european union competence, the reformed fisheries policy aims at long-term economic, social and environmental sustainability, ensuring a balance between exploiting resources and guaranteeing the quality of life of the population, ensuring the availability of resources and supplying consumers at reasonable prices. the common fisheries policy must contribute to the supply of food of high nutritional value to the union market, reducing food dependence on the internal market, to direct and indirect job creation and to the economic development of coastal areas. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this regulation will have profound implications for the future of the sector, starting in portugal - the eu country with the largest eez. despite improvements over the commission's initial proposal, such as the abolition of transferable fishing concessions, the document now adopted does not solve the main problems facing national fisheries and may even create new problems. it insists on a centralised management of the cfp, far removed from the complex and diverse reality of eu fisheries. small-scale fishing is treated very unsatisfactorily in this regulation. it is significant that any reference to this segment of the fleet has been removed, contrary to the guidelines contained in the ferreira report on small-scale fishing, recently approved by this parliament. for these reasons, and because we understood that the defence of national interests required it, we voted against.
in writing. - i approve this proposal, taking into account that the main objective of the commission proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles is to protect public health and the environment by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. the proposal will introduce a new test method for measuring the noise level of motor vehicles and new limit values for the different categories of vehicles, namely light, medium and heavy vehicles. i also support the general approach of the commission proposal, which represents a major step forward in the fight against the harmful effects of noise emissions from motor vehicles on public health and the environment. however, i believe that the commission proposal would benefit from the introduction of a number of technical additions and adaptations, particularly as regards the creation of incentives for the manufacture and purchase of vehicles with lower noise levels.
in writing. − the main objective of this regulation is to protect public health and the environment by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. in this connection, a new test method for measuring the noise level of motor vehicles and new limit values for the different categories of vehicles will be introduced. for the purpose of promoting low-noise vehicles and to give consumers an informed choice before purchase, a system of vehicle emission labelling should also be introduced. furthermore, since pavement characteristics have a decisive influence on noise emissions, it is advocated that a road classification system be introduced to enable member states and their national and local authorities to better place and assess the surface quality of their roads with a view to reducing their impact on overall noise levels. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles aims to promote the protection of public health and the environment by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles, by updating the limit values for the different categories of vehicles and by introducing a new test method for measuring the level of noise emission in motor vehicles. the rapporteur proposes a number of technical additions and adaptations to this proposal, with regard to creating incentives for the manufacture and purchase of vehicles with lower noise levels, since excessive noise pollution tends to promote the increase of diseases, disabilities and various disturbances in citizens and should therefore be avoided. a system of labelling vehicle noise emissions is also proposed, with a view to enabling consumers to make an informed choice before buying, as well as a classification of roads more or less prone to noise generation. the report also considers that the setting of limit values should be an element to be determined by co-decision (ordinary legislative procedure) and not by means of delegated acts in the commission. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report on 'noise from motor vehicles' because the proposals presented clearly reduce the level of ambition and demand of the commission's legislative proposal, thus falling short of the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of health and the environment.
in writing. − the present proposal aims to achieve a high level of protection of public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles, in particular by introducing a new test method for measuring the noise level of motor vehicles and new limit values for the different categories of vehicles, namely light, medium and heavy vehicles.
in writing. the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles has as its main objective the protection of public health and the environment through the implementation of measures to reduce the noise level of these vehicles. the proposal provides for a gradual reduction in vehicle noise emissions according to the category of vehicle, applying first to new vehicle models and then to all vehicles entering into service. the commission is also proposing to introduce a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions so that consumers can make an informed choice, as is already the case with co2 emissions and fuel consumption. it is also important to take into account that noise emitted by motor vehicles emanates from a variety of sources, including the engine, tyres, pavement and aerodynamics. given that prolonged exposure to high levels of noise increases the incidence of cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment and sleep disorders, i consider it essential to protect the health of citizens and for this reason i voted in favour.
in writing. − noise pollution is the harmful effect on public health and the environment caused by sounds at a certain volume exceeding levels considered normal for humans and other animals. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment, in particular with regard to the noise level of motor vehicles. however, although the report initially contained important provisions to reduce noise emission by 4 db for light vehicles and 3 db for heavy vehicles, the lead of these provisions during the vote in plenary distorted the content of the report and its positive effects. as regards the verification of conformity of vehicle production, the approved report adds 1db to the limit values set out in the annex to the regulation, falling short of the health protection originally intended. we voted in favour of the amendment which makes the installation of vehicle audible warning systems (avas) compulsory (and not optional), particularly for electric vehicles, which emit a 'continuous sound to indicate a vehicle in operation' for the safety of pedestrians and vulnerable road users.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation provides for a gradual reduction in the noise emissions of vehicles according to their category, applying first to new vehicle models and then to all vehicles entering into circulation. the proposal would limit the noise level of cars to 68 decibels (db), below the current limit value of 74 db. the aim is thus to protect the health of citizens, taking into account that prolonged exposure to high noise levels increases the incidence of cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment and sleep disturbances. the introduction of a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions to enable consumers to make an informed choice before purchase is also envisaged. the labelling already exists for co2 emissions, fuel consumption and tyre noise, and a similar label should now be created for vehicle noise levels. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles has as its main objective the protection of public health and the environment through the implementation of measures to reduce that noise level. i voted in favour of the proposal, which is very positive as a whole, but i do so with the reservation that the safety of visually impaired pedestrians must be duly taken into account. in fact, when addressing the issue of audibility of hybrid and electric vehicles, the draft regulation should provide for systems to control these risks, such as equipping quiet vehicles with an acoustic vehicle alerting system (avas) whose sound can easily indicate the state of action of the vehicle (acceleration, braking, reversing, temporary stopping).
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the noise level of motor vehicles updates the limit values for the different categories of vehicles and introduces a new and sophisticated test method for measuring the level of noise emission in motor vehicles. the proposal for a regulation is based on the need to protect public health and the environment, as motor transport is one of the main sources of noise pollution, the incidence of which tends to increase the number of illnesses, disabilities and various disturbances affecting citizens. the rapporteur supports the proposal, considering that the regulation would benefit from the introduction of a set of technical additions and adaptations to encourage the manufacture and purchase of vehicles with lower noise levels; the committee also notes the interest of a system of labelling of vehicle noise emissions, with a view to enabling consumers to make an informed choice before purchase. i voted in favour of this report, agreeing with the rapporteur's position that the setting of limit values is an element to be determined by co-decision by the co-legislators (in the ordinary legislative procedure) and not by means of delegated acts in the commission.
in writing. - this report aims to ensure the protection of public health and the environment with regard to the noise level of motor vehicles by implementing measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. in addition to timing, both for consumers and for the industry itself, this report aims to introduce new methods for measuring vehicle noise in the light, medium and heavy categories. the proposal is for a reduction of 4 db for light and medium vehicles and 3 db for heavy vehicles, in three phases, covering a period of 8 years, covering the whole car fleet and not just new vehicles. finally, i would like to stress the importance of ensuring that so-called quiet cars are equipped with avas to ensure maximum protection for citizens, in particular blind and partially sighted people.
in writing. − noise pollution is the harmful effect on public health and the environment caused by sounds at a certain volume exceeding levels considered normal for humans and other animals. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment, in particular with regard to the noise level of motor vehicles. however, although the report initially contained important provisions to reduce noise emission by 4 db for light vehicles and 3 db for heavy vehicles, the lead of these provisions during the vote in plenary distorted the content of the report and its positive effects. we voted in favour of the amendment which makes the installation of vehicle audible warning systems (avas) compulsory (and not optional), particularly for electric vehicles, which emit a 'continuous sound to indicate a vehicle in motion' for the safety of pedestrians and vulnerable road users.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in some member states the economic and financial crisis has had a severe impact on public finances. while most member states have been forced to take more drastic measures to reduce debt and budget deficits in order to put public finances back on a sustainable path, some countries have been so affected that they have had to resort to eu financial assistance mechanisms. as a result of the enormous financial difficulties, these member states have encountered problems in meeting the co-financing requirements. these difficulties are also evident in the case of the funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. i therefore support the commission's proposal to allow for the possibility of increasing the co-financing rates for member states benefiting from a financial support mechanism. the proposal is designed to allow an increase of 20 percentage points in the union's co-financing rate and, consequently, to reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has had severe effects on public finances in several eu member states, with some countries having recourse to the eu's financial assistance mechanism. this has led to several member states having problems in meeting the co-financing requirements associated with union funding. in view of this, it is proposed to increase the co-financing rates of the european union and consequently to reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned, thus bringing them to 70%. for projects targeting specific priorities and member states covered by the cohesion fund, the rate shall reach a maximum of 95%. it is underlined that the changes in the co-financing rates for member states facing serious financial stability difficulties do not imply an increase in the total amounts of the funds concerned. i supported this report because i agree with the importance of the reduction in the co-financing needs of the member states which have made use of the eu financial assistance mechanism.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur's proposals to increase the co-financing rates for member states receiving financial assistance. in some member states, the economic and financial crisis has had a severe impact on public finances. some countries have had to resort to eu financial assistance mechanisms and have encountered problems in meeting the co-financing requirements associated with union funding.
in writing. − the reception and protection systems of several member states have been severely tested by the arrival at their borders of a large number of people seeking international protection, and a lack of solidarity between member states in dealing with such situations has also been noted. this is why the whole package of measures adopted, with particular emphasis on the general programme on solidarity and the management of migration flows, which includes the four community funds in this area, is so important in order to ensure a balanced distribution of the effort made by the member states in receiving refugees and displaced persons and to bear the consequences of such reception. however, the ongoing financial and economic crisis has put increasing pressure on national financial resources, which in turn have been subject to budgetary constraints, creating enormous difficulties for some member states to meet the co-financing requirements under these programmes. i support this proposal to increase the union co-financing rate in order to reduce the level of funding that falls to the member state (to benefit from a financial support mechanism), as only in this way can adequate implementation of the programmes and effective management of migration flows be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the increase of 20 percentage points in the european refugee fund. this increase will allow member states to have the financial resources needed to respond to the current migratory challenges, as some countries have shown difficulty in implementing european programmes on the ground due to the worsening crisis.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, my colleague nils torvalds, i support the european commission's proposals to increase co-financing rates for member states receiving financial assistance. the principle underlying these funds is the creation of a solidarity mechanism between member states in relation to the management of migration flows. this task is not distributed equitably among the member states and a reassessment of the co-financing requirements is justified in the context of the current economic difficulties. i therefore agree with the commission's proposal to increase the cofinancing rates by 20 percentage points for countries benefiting from a financial support mechanism.
in writing. − some member states (em) most affected by the economic and financial crisis, such as greece and portugal, among others, were forced to resort to external aid, notably the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm), and to adopt drastic budgetary restraint measures which had a huge negative impact on investment and led to an economic recession. on 1 december 2011, the european parliament (ep) adopted a proposal for a regulation of the ep and of the council raising the co-financing rate for the european union structural funds to 95% in order to boost the competitiveness of enterprises and job creation in these member states. the report, by nils torvalds, is based on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending three council decisions of 2007 and aimed at increasing the co-financing rate of the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the reintegration of third-country nationals, as was the case for the structural funds in 2011, for member states (ms) with severe financial stability problems. i welcome this further demonstration of the european union's solidarity and support for the member states which are faced with rigorous and arduous financial support programmes.
in writing. - our vote on this report is inseparable from our position of principle on the funds in question, for which we now want to increase eu co-financing. we have always criticised a policy on immigration which criminalises and represses immigrants, restricts their admission and facilitates their expulsion, exposes them to human trafficking networks and exploitation as illegal labour, imposing on them a situation akin to slavery. the european return fund is one of the building blocks of this policy. we have always advocated a fairer, more humane and more democratic immigration policy, which ensures respect for the rights of all workers, without discrimination as to their national origin and with respect for their dignity and their legitimate aspirations to a better life. we believe that the objectives of the european refugee fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals are different, and despite our differences on some aspects of these areas, we abstained from voting on this report. it should also be stressed that these increases in eu co-financing do not compensate for the path of national collapse being imposed by the troika (occupying and collaborationist).
in writing. − the current crisis has led some member states to face difficulties in meeting their responsibilities for funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. this situation is aggravated in the case of the member states concerned. the present proposal is therefore intended to allow an increase of the union co-financing rate by 20 percentage points and, consequently, to reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned. the co-financing rate will thus be 70%, and for projects targeting specific priorities and member states covered by the cohesion fund, the rate will reach a maximum of 95%. this is the case with the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals, hence my favourable opinion.
in writing. − as a result of the enormous financial difficulties we are experiencing, some of the member states have been facing problems in meeting the co-financing requirements associated with union funding. these difficulties are also evident in the case of the funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. to deal with this situation, the commission has proposed the possibility of increasing co-financing rates for member states benefiting from a financial support mechanism. the funding was split 50/50. it is now proposed that the co-financing rate should be increased to 70%. for projects targeting specific priorities and member states covered by the cohesion fund, the rate will reach a maximum of 95%. in this way, it seeks to ensure that financing does not cease because of the known lack of liquidity in some member states. in agreeing with and supporting this measure, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the economic crisis has disrupted public finances in all eu countries, and some states have even had to resort to eu financial assistance mechanisms to cope with the difficulties. the commission has also decided to extend the period of validity of the financial corrections to the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. i have approved the report, given the importance that the proper functioning of the management of migration flows has for the whole of the european union.
in writing. − in a context where several member states are in recession or economic stagnation, leading to requests for financial assistance as they have been unable to meet their financial responsibilities, it is also necessary to discuss increasing union co-financing under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows', as has already been the case with the structural funds. for these reasons, the commission is proposing, temporarily, to increase the co-financing by 20 percentage points, taking due account of the member states eligible for the cohesion fund. i fully support this measure, since the countries involved need additional support so as not to jeopardise the management of migration flows. we must not accept that the events in greece in various detention centres, due to a lack of human, physical and financial resources, are a reality. european solidarity in this area should not be forgotten, since some member states are more exposed than others.
in writing. - this report is perverse in its reasoning: it uses the policy of budgetary restraint and the destruction of social rights and achievements that is being imposed on countries like portugal to justify the increase in the eu co-financing rate in these funds. there is no solidarity in this decision. firstly, because it maintains an immigration policy that criminalizes and represses immigrants, restricts their admission and facilitates their expulsion, exposes them to human trafficking networks and exploitation as illegal labour, imposing on them a situation akin to slavery. secondly, no increase in eu co-financing in these funds will be able to compensate for the destruction of social and labour rights, the destruction of public services imposed by the troika (foreign and national), the consequences of which will affect not only the workers and the people of these countries, but also immigrants, given their fragile social and labour situation. for our part, we consider it essential to have a fairer, more humane and more democratic immigration policy, which ensures respect for the rights of all workers, without discrimination as to their national origin and with respect for their dignity and their legitimate aspirations to a better life.
in writing. - i approve this proposal, taking into account that in some member states the economic and financial crisis has had a severe impact on public finances. these difficulties are also evident in the case of the funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. i therefore support the commission's proposal to allow the possibility of increasing the co-financing rates for member states benefiting from a financial support mechanism. i note that the changes to the co-financing rates for member states facing serious financial stability difficulties do not imply an increase in the total amounts of the funds in question. i would also point out that similar amendments to the cofinancing requirements have already been adopted for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the fisheries fund and the agricultural fund for rural development. it is therefore reasonable to allow similar changes to be made to the funds related to migration flows. the proposed increase in co-financing rates does not affect the 2014-2020 programming period, which may need to be reviewed.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has had a severe impact on public finances in several eu member states, with some countries having recourse to the eu's financial assistance mechanism. this has led to several member states having problems in meeting the co-financing requirements associated with union funding. in view of this, it is proposed to increase the co-financing rates of the european union and consequently to reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned, thus raising the co-financing rate to 70%. for projects targeting specific priorities and member states covered by the cohesion fund, the rate shall reach a maximum of 95%. it is underlined that the changes in the co-financing rates for member states facing serious financial stability difficulties do not imply an increase in the total amounts of the funds concerned. the failure of a member state to manage migration flows effectively does not only affect the country in question, but also has repercussions in many other states. i agree with the importance of the reduction in the cofinancing needs of the member states which have made use of the eu financial assistance mechanism and therefore i have supported this report.
in writing. − in some member states, the economic and financial crisis has had a severe impact on public finances. some countries have been so affected that they have had to resort to eu financial assistance mechanisms. as a result of the enormous financial difficulties, these member states have encountered problems in meeting the co-financing requirements associated with union funding. these difficulties are also evident in the case of the funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. proposals aiming at an increase in co-financing rates for member states receiving financial assistance should be supported. it is essential that member states facing major economic difficulties remain able to take on the tasks related to the management of migration flows.
in writing. − the reception and protection systems of several member states have been severely tested by the arrival at their borders of a large number of people seeking international protection, and a lack of solidarity between member states in dealing with such situations has also been noted. this is why the whole package of measures adopted, with particular emphasis on the general programme on solidarity and the management of migration flows, which includes the four community funds in this area, is so important in order to ensure a balanced distribution of the effort made by the member states in receiving refugees and displaced persons and to bear the consequences of such reception. however, the ongoing financial and economic crisis has put increasing pressure on national financial resources, which in turn have been subject to budgetary constraints, creating enormous difficulties for some member states to meet the co-financing requirements under these programmes. i support this proposal to increase the union co-financing rate in order to reduce the level of funding that falls to the member state (to benefit from a financial support mechanism), as only in this way can adequate implementation of the programmes and effective management of migration flows be ensured.
in writing. - i agree with the european commission's proposal to increase the co-financing rates for member states receiving financial assistance, so that they can maintain the smooth functioning of migration flows, for the security of the whole eu. the principle underlying these funds is the creation of a solidarity mechanism between member states in relation to the management of migration flows. this task is not distributed equitably among the member states and a reassessment of the co-financing requirements is justified in the context of the current economic difficulties. i think the commission's proposal to increase the co-financing rates by 20 percentage points for countries benefiting from a financial support mechanism is reasonable.
in writing. − some member states (em) most affected by the economic and financial crisis, such as greece and portugal, among others, were forced to resort to external aid, notably the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm), and to adopt drastic budgetary restraint measures which had a huge negative impact on investment, leading to an economic recession. the main objective of the european union (eu) external borders fund (ebf) is to support member states (em) in the costs of an integrated management of their external borders so that we can all share in an area of freedom, security and justice. the report, by nils torvalds, is based on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision no 574/2007/ec and aims to increase the co-financing rate of the eff, as was the case with the structural funds at the end of 2011, in favour of member states experiencing severe financial stability difficulties. i welcome this further demonstration of the european union's solidarity and support for the member states which are faced with rigorous and arduous financial support programmes.
in writing. - our vote on this report is inseparable from our position of principle on the fund in question, for which we now want to increase eu co-financing. we have always criticised a policy on immigration which criminalises and represses immigrants, restricts their admission and facilitates their expulsion, exposes them to human trafficking networks and exploitation as illegal labour, imposing on them a situation akin to slavery. this fund is one of the building blocks of this policy. we have always advocated a fairer, more humane and more democratic immigration policy, which ensures respect for the rights of all workers, without discrimination as to their national origin and with respect for their dignity and their legitimate aspirations to a better life. we could not therefore support this report and therefore voted against it. it should also be stressed that no increase in eu co-financing in this fund will be able to compensate for the destruction of social and labour rights, the destruction of public services imposed by the troika (foreign and national), the consequences of which will affect not only the workers and the people of these countries, but also immigrants, given their fragile social and labour situation.
in writing. − the current crisis has led some member states to face difficulties in meeting their responsibilities for funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. this situation is aggravated in the case of the member states concerned. the present proposal is therefore intended to allow an increase of the union co-financing rate by 20 percentage points and, consequently, to reduce the co-financing needs of the member states concerned. the co-financing rate will thus be 70%, and for projects targeting specific priorities and member states covered by the cohesion fund, the rate will reach a maximum of 95%. this is the case with the external borders fund. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 573/2007/ec, decision no 575/2007/ec and council decision 2007/435/ec with a view to increasing the co-financing rate of the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals, as regards certain provisions relating to financial management, for the benefit of certain member states facing or threatened with serious difficulties in financial stability is based on the same reasons as those i raised in my intervention in case a7-0433/2012, and i therefore voted here also in favour of the proposal to increase the eu co-financing from 50% to 70%.
in writing. − european solidarity is the support and mutual assistance of member states, even if they are not exposed to certain problems. this is the case with the flow and management of migration, to which certain countries such as greece, italy and malta are more exposed. the economic and financial crisis affecting the union is reducing the member states' capacity to co-finance. for these reasons, and in order not to create further imbalances within the countries themselves, the european commission is presenting a plan to increase co-financing for the external borders fund, the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals. we cannot allow financial difficulties to undermine our migration policy and to diminish the protection of the many people seeking europe.
in writing. - this report is perverse in its reasoning: it uses the policy of budgetary restraint and the destruction of social rights and achievements that is being imposed on countries like portugal to justify the increase in the eu co-financing rate in these funds. there is no solidarity in this decision. firstly, because it maintains an immigration policy that criminalizes and represses immigrants, restricts their admission and facilitates their expulsion, exposes them to human trafficking networks and exploitation as illegal labour, imposing on them a situation akin to slavery. secondly, no increase in eu co-financing in these funds will be able to compensate for the destruction of social and labour rights, the destruction of public services imposed by the troika (foreign and national), the consequences of which will affect not only the workers and the people of these countries, but also immigrants, given their fragile social and labour situation. for our part, we consider it essential to have a fairer, more humane and more democratic immigration policy, which ensures respect for the rights of all workers, without discrimination as to their national origin and with respect for their dignity and their legitimate aspirations to a better life.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources are central elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management and are added to the annual and biennial decisions taken on catch possibilities. technical measures set out the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear, as opposed to the quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tac and quotas) authorised. the commission proposal aims to extend the provisions on technical measures for a further transitional period until a regional framework for technical measures is adopted in accordance with the cfp. as the cfp will not enter into force before 1 january 2013, when the transitional technical measures will expire, the commission is once again proposing an intermediate solution, amending the basic legal act, with an uncertain term. however, i would stress that it is regrettable that another proposal for transitional technical measures is being put before parliament again. it would have been preferable to find a permanent solution in due course. european fishermen need legal certainty and the term 'temporary' should not be used in vain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to ensure the sustainability of fisheries resources and also to ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that the ecosystems in which they live are preserved. poorly designed or inappropriate technical measures can lead to unsustainable fishing practices and, in certain circumstances, can endanger the lives and safety of fishermen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the conservation of fishery resources, as it will allow the provisions on transitional technical measures to be extended until a regional framework is adopted, in line with the cfp, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of fishing activities.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that it is preferable to give fishermen and businesses in the sector a stable legal framework as regards the technical measures applicable to them. the maintenance of transitional arrangements in matters of this nature does not contribute to the legal certainty of those actors and is therefore a factor of instability. the subject matter of these technical measures is particularly sensitive. the conservation of fisheries resources is essential for the sustainability not only of marine biodiversity but of fisheries as a human activity that generates income and produces societies and individual crops that need to be protected. without the natural resource underlying them, they would necessarily be doomed to disappear. i hope that the conservation of fishery resources will be carried out with sufficient rigor and flexibility to allow timely and attentive responses to the interests of the main actors and their specific circumstances, whenever this is possible without jeopardising the preservation of ecosystems and the renewal of species.
in writing. - we all know that overfishing destroys marine diversity and reduces the prospects for our fishermen by preventing the replenishment of stocks. to prevent this from happening, we must ensure sustainable management of fisheries resources. the report we have just voted on, drawn up by mr pat the cope gallagher, is based on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 850/1998 on the conservation of fishery resources through certain technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1288/2009. because the european union must be an example to the world, i voted in favour of this report and i believe that fisheries have a future only if they are genuinely sustainable. this requires management plans that avoid the capture of juveniles and preserve their growth to adulthood. this regulation will define the mesh sizes of nets to be used and the periods of protection, so as not to affect the normal replenishment of stocks.
in writing. − technical measures lay down rules on the fishing zones and gears used as opposed to the quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tac and quotas) authorised. the commission proposal aims to extend the rules on technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms for a further transitional period until, in a regionalised framework for technical measures, a new framework is adopted in accordance with the future common fisheries policy. the previous regulation included a measure prohibiting fishing with gillnets at depths below 200 metres, which was very burdensome and discriminatory for the portuguese fleet fishing for cod up to approximately 400 metres deep - measures which lacked a scientific basis. we welcome the rapporteur's willingness to accept our amendment on the use of gillnets in ices subarea ix, subject to certain conditions, with a view to putting an end to this discrimination. we voted for the report.
in writing. − the conservation of fishery resources is essential for the maintenance of species and for fishing activity. for my country, portugal, which has a long tradition in the fisheries sector, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity. maintaining fisheries resources at a good level is important to achieve the numbers needed for consumption and to maintain species with their reproductive capacities and genetic integrity intact. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources define the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear, and are key elements in a regionalised approach to fisheries management. such measures are designed to ensure the sustainability of fishing activities and are essential to achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp). technical conservation measures include the establishment of protection zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, minimum mesh size of nets and minimum landing sizes of species, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and environmental protection measures. in this context, this report proposed an update of existing technical measures and the adoption of specific measures aimed at reducing rejections. the report also confirmed an amendment resulting from a portuguese request to allow the national gillnet fleet to resume fishing for redfish between 200 and 600 metres deep. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the importance of these technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources and the safeguarding of the legitimate interests of the national fisheries sector.
in writing. − technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources are central elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management. technical measures set out the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear, as opposed to the quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tac and quotas) authorised. the commission proposal aims to extend the provisions on technical measures for a further transitional period until a regional framework for technical measures is adopted in line with the common fisheries policy. as it will not enter into force before 1 january 2013, when the transitional technical measures expire, the commission once again proposes an intermediate solution. in addition to the extension of the validity of the current technical measures, the proposed text contains an update of the existing measures, as well as measures to reduce returns in the north-east atlantic, but which have not yet been transposed into union law. for the reasons i have outlined, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this commission proposal aims to extend the rules on technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms for a further transitional period, until, in a regionalised framework for technical measures, in accordance with the future common fisheries policy, a new framework is adopted. the previous regulation included a measure prohibiting fishing with gillnets at depths below 200 metres, which was very burdensome and discriminatory for the portuguese fleet fishing for cod up to approximately 400 metres deep - measures which lacked a scientific basis. we voted in favour.
in writing. − whereas, while gender inequality and discrimination increase the risk of violence, other forms of discrimination on the basis of factors such as disability or membership of a minority group may increase the risks faced by women of exposure to violence and exploitation, and whereas current responses to violence against women and girls and prevention strategies do not sufficiently include women and girls who are victims of multiple forms of discrimination, these are the reasons why i support this proposal. whereas if work to end violence against women is to be effective, international cooperation and action, the firm commitment of political leaders at all levels and the most substantial levels of funding are to be ensured. i therefore think it is important to urge the commission and the member states to review their policies, programmes and resources available to tackle violence inside and outside the eu, and to reinforce their strategies with improved instruments and ambitious targets.
in writing. − violence against women and girls is one of the most serious violations of human rights. this phenomenon is universal and affects all cultures and social backgrounds, with disastrous consequences for the victims, their families and society. in my country, portugal, 36 women died of domestic violence last year. violence against women and girls cannot be tolerated in any form or in any context. the european union should step up its action in this area with the cooperation of the united nations, in particular through the beijing platform for action. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution which underlines the importance of the european union supporting the efforts of the united nations to reach consensus conclusions at the next session of the united nations commission on the status of women on the theme 'preventing and eradicating all forms of violence against women and girls'. it will be a crucial moment for the european union to join the united nations in developing institutional programmes and mechanisms and to ensure that strategies to prevent violence against women and girls are at the centre of all global attention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because violence against women and girls remains one of the most serious violations of human rights at global and structural level and is a phenomenon involving victims and perpetrators of all ages, educational backgrounds, income and social position, and is both a cause and a consequence of inequality between men and women. gender inequality and discrimination increase the risk of violence, violence against women and girls must end. the eu and its member states must step up their domestic efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls.
in writing. − violence against women and girls remains one of the most serious human rights violations worldwide, involving victims and perpetrators of all ages and social strata. there can be no tolerance for this kind of situation and the european union is firmly committed to combating any and all forms of violence. women have thus been the main victims of gender-based violence, which constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights to life, safety, liberty, dignity and physical and emotional integrity. special investment in prevention should therefore be made, focusing on areas such as education, knowledge, networking and partnerships, and the exchange of good practice. it is essential to eradicate all forms of violence against women and girls, which requires a coordinated and multi-sectoral approach, including through the creation of a european strategy. it is equally important to strengthen international cooperation and to promote urgent action to eliminate harmful traditional attitudes, practices and customs, including female genital mutilation, early and forced marriage and honour killings.
in writing. - as i have written many times, i condemn all violence, but especially that which is directed against those who are most vulnerable - socially, economically or emotionally - such as children and, often, women. this is not a local problem but a global issue that deserves an adequate and firm international response. this is why states must seek to eliminate all forms of violence against women and children, including trafficking for sexual exploitation, violations of their sexual self-determination and domestic violence, and the eu must set an example in this regard by implementing strong policies to prevent violence, punish offenders and support victims. respect for human life and dignity is not compatible with the crimes of which many women and children are victims.
in writing. - the present proposal, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5), follows a question with a request for an oral answer by mr gustafsson on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and aims to prevent and eradicate all forms of violence against women and girls. we all know that this violence exists, even in europe. one in five women is a victim of violence. one in ten women is a victim of sexual violence. in india, every 25 minutes, a woman is raped. these are figures which cannot leave us indifferent and which put this issue at the centre of the european agenda. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because we cannot just talk. we have to move quickly. the human rights violation is at issue. it is not understandable that only 17 member states have signed the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women. i am pleased that my country, portugal, was the first and so far the only member state to ratify this convention, which it did yesterday, 5 february, here in strasbourg.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution on the need to prevent and eradicate all forms of violence against women and girls. we stress that the problem of violence against women and girls cannot be isolated from the set of policies and guidelines which are currently dominant in the eu. eradicating all forms of violence against women means combating poverty, unemployment, the increase in marginalization and dependency which leads to prostitution and other intolerable forms of violence against women. combating violence means combating domestic violence, and to do that, we need to strengthen social policies, i.e. public investment that has been crushed by the eu and national governments. eradicating violence against women means eradicating the imposition of exhausting work patterns at work, the low wages that keep women in cycles of poverty and economic dependence, and ending wage inequalities. the attacks on workers' rights, and in particular discrimination against women in the workplace, do not help women to break the cycle of violence to which they are subject. it is not worth preaching equality and putting into practice the inequality that is increasing today, and which has politicians in charge.
in writing. − violence against women and girls remains one of the most serious human rights violations worldwide, and is a phenomenon that involves victims of all ages, educational backgrounds, income and social status. policies are therefore needed to prevent and eradicate all forms of violence against women and girls. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament calls on the eu to support the launch of a global awareness-raising campaign on the prevention of violence against women and girls and gender-based violence, with a view to taking measures that contribute to making our countries and communities safe and to fully respecting the human rights of women and girls worldwide. this campaign should build on existing partnerships between states and other relevant actors, including civil society and women's organisations.
in writing. the 1979 united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) has strengthened the civil and political freedom of all women on a global scale. i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls, and which has the effect of breaching human rights, creating gender inequality and increasing the risk of social conflict. i also believe that it is essential to continue working to put an end to violence against women, and that greater cooperation and concrete action should be taken at international level.
in writing. - we cannot isolate the problem of violence against women and girls from the whole of the cross-cutting policies that are implemented by the eu in the 27 member states. the eradication of all forms of violence against women means fighting poverty, unemployment, the increase in marginalization and dependency which are driving the causes of prostitution, which today increasingly affects women. combating violence means combating domestic violence and this requires the strengthening of social policies, i.e. public investment which is blocked by eu fiscal policies. eradicating violence against women means eradicating the imposition of grueling work patterns at work, the low wages that keep women in cycles of poverty and prevent them from achieving economic independence, and it means ending wage inequalities. the measures to make work more flexible, which so encourage the concept of competitiveness in the 'european institutions', only make it more difficult for women to break the cycle of violence to which they are subjected. breaking with current economic and social policies would be the greatest contribution the eu could make to the fight against violence against women.
the murder of three kurdish activists in paris last january was revolting and cowardly. it was certainly intended to stop the process of negotiations initiated by the government of prime minister erdogan and the kurdistan workers' party, led by abdullah öcalan, which should lead to the gradual disarmament of the pkk. the turkish government and the pkk have a unique opportunity to reach a historic compromise. the dialogue must also lead to the political, cultural and socioeconomic inclusion of the courses in turkish society. turkey has a duty to guarantee the right of its citizens to freedom of expression, association and demonstration, which cannot be achieved without the repression or detention of kurdish leaders or activists. the constitutional conciliation committee, in drafting a new constitution, must set in motion a democratic process which reflects the diversity of turkish society. civil society has to be included. it is imperative that the anti-terrorist and criminal laws be reformed so that they do not continue to target legitimate expressions of kurdish identity. it is imperative that the new constitution enshrines the human rights of the kurdish minority, including the use of the kurdish language in schools, and in this regard i welcome the turkish court which understood this yesterday, making today the first day on which all institutions, including the courts, will be able to conduct their work in kurdish. it is vital that turkish police authorities contain the excessive use of force during kurdish street demonstrations. the armed struggle in south-eastern turkey must end, and i therefore call on the pkk to lay down its arms and on the turkish government to release the kurdish political prisoners. the high representative must assist the turkish government in developing a viable and consistent solution for the integration of citizens of kurdish origin into turkish society in the process of turkey's accession to the european union. finally, i would point out that turkey is often held up as a model for the countries of the arab spring, but without a democratic solution to the kurdish question, turkey's soft power in the region will be weak.
the resolution which parliament will adopt tomorrow is to be read carefully by governments, institutions and diplomats of the european union, in particular those who will be working in the council in geneva. stavros lambrinidis, the european union's representative for human rights, should coordinate the action of the member countries to ensure greater coherence and effectiveness. for that, we have to start working from home. the european union must be held accountable for the responsibilities of its member states for collaborating with the so-called cia flights, the torture flights, because without that it will have no credibility. just yesterday a report by open society was published which talks about european responsibilities in this area. it is regrettable that the human rights council continues to have among its elected members countries such as the newly elected ethiopia and kazakhstan, which are serious human rights violators against their own peoples. it is an opportunity for the european union to denounce these situations and to confront them with their responsibilities. the european union must also condemn israel's refusal to submit to the upr. this is a very serious and intolerable precedent. syria must be the main focus and the human rights council must be asked to get the united nations council to refer the situation of criminals in syria to the international criminal court. western sahara, eritrea, sudan and south sudan, bahrain, iran, sri lanka, belarus, burma, russia and china are situations which should continue or be on the council's agenda. finally, on the thematic issues, violence against women, children and lgbt people has... (the president cut the speaker off)
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr manfred weber, you said this was a bulgarian problem. as you know, we're discussing matters of democracy. i would like you to quote article 2 of the treaty on european union and tell me where you find it in that article 2, which determines our responsibility here in this house to defend democracy, equality, the rule of law, freedom and human dignity, to tell me that this problem, being that of bulgaria, is not a problem of all europeans and whether you, as a member of parliament, are not also representative of bulgarians as european citizens.
the union has a responsibility, it is in article 2, the first substantive words of the treaty: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights. this responsibility lies directly with us, with the institutions here, and with the member states, which have obligations: pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, respect for the rights of minorities. the bulgarian case we are discussing here is emblematic of how these values are in danger in the european union today. election fraud and irregularities have various descriptions, links to corruption, even organized crime, by political elites are documented, are known from embassies in sofia, have the worst ranking in press freedom in the european union - the worst in the developed world - lgbt people live under pressure, the roma community, ghettoized and uneducated. and of course, this is not just happening in bulgaria. each case in europe is a case, but several cases make a trend: in one country it is the separation of powers, in another country it is corruption issues, in another country it is journalists who are in danger. the european union has a serious problem with democracy and civil and political rights and must face reality. we have to face reality! the council comes here and says that it cannot take a decision, it refers it to the commission, the commission refers, with all due respect, madam commissioner, to the commissioner for climate change, and we hear a representative of the european people's party say that this is only a hungarian problem, when the treaty says exactly the opposite and refers it to the socialists, because the socialists do not speak of romania. if each political group passes it on to the others, we will never fulfil our promise to the bulgarian people and the people of europe. our promise is a promise of progress, democracy and peace. that is the promise of europe! progress is failing, democracy is failing, peace will one day fail. we cannot be naive enough to think that in europe these things do not happen. it is in europe that they have happened, it is to prevent them from happening in europe that the european union was made, and that is why we must go forward, for example by asking that if countries have to respect the copenhagen criteria before joining the union, we form a copenhagen committee to monitor the respect of the copenhagen values also after joining the union. i shall end with that, mr president.
the question is "blue cardboard". i listened carefully to my colleague véronique mathieu, and since she is downplaying what happened last weekend, i would like to ask her if she thinks it is normal that a prime minister is silent on this matter for more than a day, if she thinks it is normal that the security authorities did not take any measures to guarantee the security of the political demonstration which, by the way, included international personalities, including colleagues from our parliament who saw what happened and, finally, if she thinks it is normal that this is reduced, in fact, to a question of hooliganism, when we know that it encourages ethnic rivalries in bulgaria?
in bulgaria, there have long been disturbing allegations of links between the prime minister and the mafia. according to europol, organised crime accounts for 5% of bulgaria's gdp. the country dropped ten places in the latest press freedom index, to last in the european union. the authorities have a blacklist of journalists who oppose the government in violation of the most fundamental rights and freedoms. roma and other minorities, including lgbt, are victims of discrimination. the attempted assassination of a turkish-born political leader last weekend has destabilised political life and fuelled dangerous ethnic rivalries. the changes to the electoral code are alarming. bulgaria must follow the osce recommendations and urgently, given that elections will take place as early as next july. the european union cannot remain indifferent to what is happening in bulgaria. the commission must carry out all possible investigations and inquiries and demand that the bulgarian government ensure the basic principles of democracy, the rule of law, free and fair elections and respect for fundamental rights. it is intolerable that, in order to join the european union, the copenhagen principles have to be observed by the applicant countries and that, once inside the european union, they can violate them. as mr van baalen said, all that i have said is not against bulgaria, it is for bulgaria, it is in the interests of bulgaria, it is in the interests of the european union. that is why we call on the commission, the council and the european governments to exercise their responsibilities under article 2 of the treaty and to take action to defend democracy and the rule of law in bulgaria, that is to say within our union. we all feel bulgarian today! (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
blue-card answer. – mr kovatchev, i have not read this in the bulgarian press because unfortunately i cannot read bulgarian. i have read it widely in the international press, including in the press of my country, portugal. these allegations are serious and deserve to be investigated, considering the whole situation in the country, and the relevance of organised crime in bulgaria, as europol attests. i have every respect for the members of this government, including our former colleague nikolay mladenov, whom i count as a friend. so obviously this is not something that i believe taints members of the government. but of course these allegations are important. more important than ever are the serious allegations of basic rights and freedoms that are under threat in bulgaria, as the attempted murder last weekend illustrates.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i think it is useful to start by taking stock of the results of doha. the extension of the kyoto protocol has been positive, but some of the world's largest emitters, such as china and the united states, are still excluded, joined by japan, canada, new zealand and russia. so this agreement covers only about 15% of the world's emissions. this puts into question the objective of limiting the global temperature increase to 2°c. according to a recent united nations study, greenhouse gas emissions levels continue to rise and are 14% above the 2020 targets. if nothing is done, and urgently, there will be a temperature rise of between 3 and 5 degrees celsius this century. another world bank study confirms that global temperatures could rise by 4°c, leading to worsening food crises and extreme weather events, which will particularly affect the poorest. we need to move quickly. no more delays and hesitations. there are also many doubts about funding. in cancun, it was agreed that developed countries would mobilize $100 billion annually to finance climate action in developing countries until 2020. but it is not clear how this funding will be achieved. the eu needs to have a clear and coordinated position on this issue.
madam president, a few days ago the price of a tonne of carbon reached a new low of 2.82 euros. any encouragement to switch to low-carbon technologies was even more distant. according to some analysts, this stimulus would require a carbon price of at least €20 per tonne, seven times higher than the current price. after the frauds it has allowed and after guaranteeing fabulous profits to the polluters, the carbon market reveals once again its essence: to encourage speculation and business as usual in terms of emissions. it's ineffective and it's perverse. now even the "solution" of withdrawing licences from the market - which does not change the essence of the problem - seems to be in jeopardy. it would be good to hear not only from the commission and the council, but also from all those in this parliament who have defended and defend market solutions and the wonderful emissions trading system: from the right to the social democrats, the liberals and even the greens, who are not grey but very grey.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, i welcome the agreement reached in doha to extend the kyoto protocol. although the countries included in the second period of kyoto account for only 15% of global emissions, this is an important decision as the kyoto protocol is the only legally binding agreement to combat climate change. as for the durban platform, progress in doha was limited to discussions on timing and procedural issues and less on content and substance. this is an opportunity for the eu to maintain its leading position by drawing up a solid proposal that takes into account not only environmental concerns but also industrial competitiveness and security of energy supply. i would therefore like to put the following question to the commission: what are the principles, in terms of substance, which the commissioner thinks should be included in the durban platform? is the commission preparing such a proposal? will the commission present its position at the next cop in warsaw on what it wants to see included in the durban platform for a sustainable future, reconciling the environmental side, the competitiveness of the economy and the security of energy supply?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is protected from the risks of fraud and fraudulent practices. as if the dramatic situation in the douro region today were not enough, with thousands of small winegrowers seeing the fruits of their labour without even paying the cost of the harvest, there is now the possibility of usurping traditional names such as vintage, ruby, tawny and others, some of which have been associated with port wine for more than a century. if this were to happen, the laws protecting traditional names, court decisions, industrial property rights and the agreements between the european union and the united states in this field would be used to open the door to the north american wine industry to parasitize the prestige acquired over many years by port wine. it would be yet another intolerable attack on portuguese producers, on consumers, who have been duped, and on the oldest demarcated region in the world, the douro demarcated region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
any authorization of traditional terms, such as the vintage of douro and port wines, by others than the producers themselves constitutes an attack on producers and consumers which deserves our strong reaction and determined fight. it is an attack on consumers because it deliberately and surreptitiously confuses and misleads them into buying cat for a hare. it is an attack on producers because by usurping the legacy of their work and investment, it violently attacks the resources they have built up over time to ensure their competitiveness. the mere possibility of allowing others to use traditional terms runs counter to the european policy of defending consumer rights and the european policies of investing in quality, of promoting designations of origin, of promoting european products. in addition, a previous temporary authorisation in 2006 failed to prevent abuses, which led the commission to notify the united states. it was hoped that this temporary authorization for the use of certain european trade marks by the americans would prevent the use of many other trade marks outside the agreement. the strategy was wrong because not only did it not work, since trademark usurpations persist, but it created a precedent which cannot, under any circumstances, continue to be extended as intended. the problem is not limited to the united states, but threatens to spread to america in general and also to third markets with a great appetite for such designations, in particular the chinese market, which may prefer to import from the united states and thus penalise the european market. i therefore believe that this matter should be closed once and for all and that effective measures should be taken against the usurpation of our trademarks and against the importation of counterfeits.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report was a very important report. he asked what parliament wants to say to the commission and the council when it defines europe's economic policy for 2013. i have put all my energy and effort into finding a clear message, backed by a broad consensus. unfortunately, i find that sometimes the different political priorities of the various groups override the will to achieve this strong and united position of the european parliament. in the midst of an unprecedented crisis and as unemployment explodes in the peripheries of europe, citizens expect more from their elected representatives than mere words of conformity to austerity policies. it would be enough to ease the pace and adjust the austerity measures to what is allowed by european legislation to increase euro area growth by 0.7%. by refusing to recalibrate the econometric models and review the recommendations, we are generating an unstoppable downward spiral. i'm not satisfied with this result. i want it on record, mr president, that i am voting against my own report and that i would like to withdraw my name from its authorship. it is important for the citizens to know that we do not support the continuation of these austerity policies as they are being implemented by the council and, apparently, with the support of the right-wing majority in this house. i said, it was not a good service to the european citizens!
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the eu is currently undergoing a demographic transition. its population is ageing rapidly, and the number of people aged 65 and over will increase from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. whereas in 2010 20% of the population was 60 years or older, by 2050 this percentage will increase to at least 35%. i am therefore fully in favour of a strategy for active ageing which, on the one hand, meets the needs of a large proportion of the older population, which already represents a large proportion of the overall population of the european union, and, on the other hand, considers it of the utmost importance to reflect on and act in accordance with the new scenario presented by the demographic changes in the european territory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the population of the european union is ageing rapidly. the number of people aged 65 and over will increase from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. immigration may slow down the aging process. urban areas are also faced with an ageing population. in the 1970s, 60% of the population lived in urban areas, whereas today 80% of the population is urban. we must question the extent to which the eu and the member states, regions, cities and municipalities are adapted to the needs and capacities of their older populations. studies have already shown the influence of the conditions of a particular place (environment) on the way people mature and age.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which highlights the potential for active and healthy ageing in europe, both socially and economically. promoting and leveraging innovative solutions for health and ageing and responding to real needs offers an opportunity to improve the health and quality of life of our older people, as well as their capacity for social interaction. the increase in average life expectancy in europe is a reality which poses new challenges for us. first of all, i would remind you that active and healthy ageing is a process that covers all stages of our lives and that it is therefore important to strengthen the mechanisms of solidarity between and within generations. i would also stress that the 'crisis' cannot be an excuse for the disinvestment in health care, particularly for the elderly. even in times of austerity, we must be able to assure all care dependents and their families that they will continue to be able to count on them!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a 'european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing', considering it a key project in an ageing europe where it is important to improve the health and quality of life of citizens and to ensure the sustainability and universality of health and social protection systems.
in writing. − population ageing is one of the most important challenges europe is facing and will face. increased life expectancy and improved health conditions now allow people to live better and longer lives, causing the non-active population to grow, while low birth rates do not allow a replacement of the active population, thus creating difficulties for social security systems. in 2050, the percentage of the population over 60 years old will be 35% compared to only 20% in 2010. that is why, in the knowledge that we are 'aging better' today, it is necessary to find ways of ensuring active, autonomous and healthy ageing, by ensuring that people over 65 remain in the labour market or take on other forms of social intervention, whether in volunteering or in the family, thus freeing up public resources and constituting a real asset for societies.
in writing. − the ageing of the population is now a key challenge for the european union (eu). the number of people aged 65 and over will increase from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. moreover, whereas in 2010 20% of the population was 60 years or older, by 2050 this percentage will increase to at least 35%. active and healthy ageing is not just a concept reserved exclusively for our grandparents, but it is also relevant to the younger generations. aging is a process that "technically" begins before birth and ends with death. this report is of great importance because it aims to draw the attention of the european commission to pay particular attention to the multidimensional relationship between older populations and their environment as a precondition for the long-term success of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing.
in writing. the proposal to increase the average number of healthy life years (by 2 years) is the commission's ready response to the increase in average life expectancy, an achievement of civilization, as a result of scientific and technical progress. as we said during the debate, this question lends itself to different and even conflicting approaches. active and healthy ageing creates new social needs and requires investment in a wide range of existing and future public services, starting with health. it also opens up new possibilities for enjoyment and for extending leisure and rest. but the response to the increase in life expectancy in capitalist society seems to be more to increase the pressure on workers, to reduce their rights and to increase the retirement age. this report reflects this tension. the references to the integration of the elderly into the labour market, the flexibility of the labour market, the possibilities of parttime work and providing for different forms of employment contracts suitable for older workers, flexible and partial reforms cannot but raise, even more so in the present political and social context, great concerns.
in writing. - the european union is currently undergoing a demographic transition. the population is ageing rapidly and the number of people aged 65 and over will increase from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. moreover, whereas in 2010 20% of the population was 60 years or older, by 2050 this percentage will increase to at least 35%. it is increasingly important that we initiate policies that lead to healthy and active ageing, in order to avoid high levels of dependency that are becoming increasingly difficult to reconcile with the increasing demands of society.
in writing. - the european union is currently undergoing a demographic transition. its population is ageing rapidly, and the number of people aged 65 and over will increase from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. in fact, in 2010, 20% of the population was 60 years or older, and by 2050 that percentage will increase to at least 35%. from a generational point of view, we must therefore question the extent to which the eu and the member states, regions, cities and municipalities are adapted to the needs and (remaining) capacities of their older populations. this implies that we must also ask whether the conditions in these places actually guarantee people an active and healthy ageing. in this context, all policies contributing to active and healthy ageing are welcome and this report, which i am voting for, presents a number of measures, among which i stress the need for a holistic approach to ageing, for comprehensive development and reforms not only in the field of lifelong learning and the labour market, but also in access to them, particularly in terms of transport, infrastructure and buildings.
in writing. − the population aged 65 and over has been increasing rapidly and widely across the union, with the proportion of the population aged 65 and over estimated to be around 35% by 2050. in addition, urbanisation in europe is increasing the ageing of the population, and these are therefore related phenomena. population ageing is a multidimensional and multidisciplinary phenomenon, involving different competences not only of the union but also of the member states. the european commission must therefore ensure that the phenomenon is properly framed within the framework of the european innovation partnership for active and healthy ageing. it is necessary not only to adapt the environment in which the population is found, but also to ensure that a whole range of measures and initiatives are taken, both in the regulatory and in the infrastructural field, which allow the integration of the elderly population into society, while ensuring their social well-being. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the proposal to increase the average number of healthy life years (by 2 years) is the commission's ready response to the increase in average life expectancy, an achievement of civilization, as a result of scientific and technical progress. active and healthy ageing creates new social needs and requires investment in a wide range of existing and future public services, starting with health. it also opens up new possibilities for enjoyment and for extending leisure and rest. unfortunately, we have seen huge setbacks in public responses to these needs, as a consequence of the constraints imposed on public investment. but the response to the increase in life expectancy in capitalist society seems to be more to increase the pressure on workers, to reduce their rights and to increase the retirement age. this report reflects this tension. the references to the integration of the elderly into the labour market, to 'the flexibility of the labour market', to 'part-time work possibilities and different types of employment contracts suitable for older workers', to 'flexible reforms' and 'partial reforms' cannot but raise, even more so in the present political and social context, great concerns.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that international trade in wild animals and plants must not constitute a threat to the survival of these species in the wild. whereas it is important to put long-term prosperity above short-term economic interests, and whereas it is, in my view, worrying that the exploitation of wild species, illegal trade in wild fauna and flora, destruction of habitats, climate change and human consumption of natural resources are the main causes of the depletion of biodiversity; i therefore call on the european union and the member states to use the precautionary principle as a basic principle for all their decisions on working papers and proposals for registration, taking particular account of the user-pays principle, an ecosystem-centred approach and traditional conservation principles, while the european union and the member states speak with one voice.
in writing. − the increasing urbanisation and industrialisation of the world has removed some populations from the most immediate contact with many ecosystems and wild species of fauna and flora, and at the same time placed them under greater pressure. news reports often report on the loss of biodiversity, the extinction of species and the unsustainable deterioration of their habitats. the 27 member states of the european union should seek to coordinate their action within the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora and to ensure that common positions make a serious contribution to raising global awareness and demand for action on these issues.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution follows the questions for oral answer under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure on the strategic objectives of the european union (eu) for the 16th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in bangkok, thailand, from 3 to 14 march 2013. ensuring the conservation of biodiversity is fundamental to the european union's perspective. it is absolutely essential that the european parliament and the council should have a concerted position on this. we must be aware that there is still a lot to be done to preserve vulnerable species, particularly the polar bear. the preservation of biodiversity must often take precedence over economic interests. this thesis is to be defended at the 16th cipes cop in bangkok. there are several stakeholders represented at the cop, but the european union must speak with one voice. only in this way will it be possible to guarantee the essential conditions for the preservation of biodiversity.
in writing. − the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) regulates international trade in species, i.e. the export, re-export and import of live and dead animals, plants and derivatives. the illegal trade in animals and plants has over the years posed a serious threat to many species and, despite increased control, surveillance and combat in many countries, it remains unfortunately high. we have raised this issue here on several occasions, both in the context of questions to the european commission and in amendments to reports. this resolution addresses a number of concerns, including the transparency of the decision-making process, the financing of cites objectives, the better application of the cites list of marine species caught outside the jurisdiction of any member state, the inclusion of species in annex ii for better control and monitoring, such as certain shark species, and the transfer of annex ii species to annex i (at risk of extinction). this convention has a double benefit, since it protects endangered species and at the same time provides extra protection against invasive species for europe. we voted for the resolution.
in writing. - cites, currently with 177 parties, including the 27 member states of the european union, is the main existing global agreement on wildlife conservation, and aims to prevent the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora species by international trade. it is essential to ensure that international trade in wild animals and plants does not pose a threat to the survival of those species in the wild. the european union should take a leading role in protecting endangered species by actively participating in the cites convention negotiations and encouraging the removal of gaps that worsen the situation. the eu must be at the forefront of protecting wildlife species. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this resolution sets out the european parliament's contribution to the eu's strategic objectives for the 16th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in bangkok, thailand, from 3 to 14 march 2013. i voted in favour of agreeing with the line taken that it is important to put long-term prosperity above short-term economic interests and to promote effective protection of endangered species.
in writing. the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) will take place from 3 to 14 march this year. it is the only international conference, to which all 27 member states belong, which aims to take due account of the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora species by international trade. i believe that we must have a single voice and, given the importance of protecting biodiversity, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) regulates international trade in species, i.e. the export, re-export and import of live and dead animals, plants and derivatives. this resolution addresses a number of concerns, including the transparency of the decision-making process, the financing of cites objectives, the better application of the cites list of marine species caught outside the jurisdiction of any member state, the inclusion of species in annex ii for better control and monitoring, such as certain shark species, and the transfer of annex ii species to annex i (at risk of extinction). this convention has a double benefit, since it protects endangered species and at the same time it is an extra protection for invasive species to europe.
in writing. - i approve this report in solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary conditions that many member states of the european union are currently experiencing. i therefore believe that the european parliament and all the other european institutions should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets without prejudice to legislative excellence and their legal obligations. for my s&d group, we are leading by example, as can be seen by the fact that members' contributions have been frozen at the 2011 level until the end of the current legislature. it should also be noted that other structural reforms have already been agreed in the european parliament, some of which have been in place since 2011 and allow an estimated saving of eur 29 million per year, despite the additional costs of the new member states and the preparation of croatia's application.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the smooth functioning of parliament will be an equally important guiding principle.
in writing. − taking due account of the union's current financial, economic and social situation, there is a growing need for the institutions to respond responsibly and with restraint to the demands of the very serious situation we are facing and to use rigorous budgetary management processes to achieve savings. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new financial perspective to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013, with a view to achieving a balanced budgetary position. parliament should uphold the principle of legislative excellence, respect the principles of good governance and transparency and strive for a spirit of budgetary responsibility.
in writing. - the operating and administrative expenditure of all the institutions of the european union represents only about 6% of the budget of the european union. there is no other institution or organisation in the european union, in any member state, that i know of that has this performance. i would remind you that although the budget of the european union represents only 1% of gdp, it has a huge added value and in several member states it represents more than 50% of national investment. as regards the european parliament's budget, our aim remains legislative excellence, which requires minimal resources. failure to achieve this goal always comes at a cost which is reflected in the lives of each citizen. we are not indifferent to the moment of restraint in most member states. it is also noted that all members' allowances at the 2011 level have been frozen until the end of the current term of office. this has been achieved despite the new competences resulting from the lisbon treaty and the costs of croatia's accession. this rigorousness does not, of course, undermine the objective of legislative excellence or multilingualism.
in writing. − we express our concern at the current limitations on the right of members to speak in their mother tongue, both in official meetings and when tabled amendments in committee. we regret the late and limited access to the translation of documents in the official languages - in particular reports and resolutions voted in committees and in plenary sessions of the european parliament. we reject any kind of hierarchy or subordination of the official languages and demand full respect for the principle of multilingualism. we call for a more rational and democratic use of resources and staff and draw attention to the fact that their reduction leads to a deterioration of democratic rights and limits in particular the scope for action and intervention of the smaller political groups. the dismissals and/or the limitation of the rights of workers in translation and interpretation services lead to a deterioration in the quality of these services and are contrary to the principle of multilingualism. we have defended the principle of permanent employment contracts for permanent posts. these are some of the amendments we tabled to this report which were rejected by the majority. at the same time, they continue to welcome the budget cuts that have caused the problems listed above. for these reasons and others (such as the rejection of the eeas), we voted against.
in writing. the vote on the priorities for administrative expenditure by the european institutions took place on the eve of the council meeting, which was to decide on the amount of this heading. this item represents less than 6% of the eu's annual budget, and of this less than 2% is for employment contracts. it is important to ensure that an eu with more powers and more countries can function properly and guarantee the necessary working conditions and access for citizens and civil society to what is done and decided here. there are savings and improvements that can be made, but it is essential to ensure that, for example, european funds reach the countries on time, that there are no delays because there are not enough translators or interpreters. we abstained on the report because it is still at a very preliminary stage of the negotiations. we voted in favour of amendments which could bring about a significant reduction in burdens, a single seat for the ep, for example; and against proposals for cuts in human resources which, under the pretext of austerity and rationalisation, only increase the precariousness and unemployment of ep workers and reduce the quality of the service provided to all european citizens.
in writing. − the council has not yet reached agreement on the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework for 2014/2020. on the other hand, in a context of high public debt and austerity, and at a time of ongoing efforts at national level to consolidate budgets, the european parliament and all the european institutions must continue to demonstrate budgetary responsibility, control and restraint. the institutions should therefore continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets in solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states, without prejudice to the quality of the institution's core activities, compliance with legal obligations and the need to invest in development. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the guidelines for the 2014 budgetary procedure. i do so because i agree with the strategic direction of the institutions that they should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets without prejudice to the quality of essential institutional activities, compliance with legal obligations and the need to invest in development.
in writing. − the latest council meetings have not yet reached agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020, so there is no defined ceiling for heading 5 of the eu budget for 2014. in the absence of an agreement for the next financial programming period, the 2013 figures, budgeted at eur 9,181 million in current prices, will apply. i would like to stress that the european parliament has been adopting severe budgetary restraint measures, and this has only been possible because of strong budgetary control and planning and the reorganization of work, in particular in terms of cuts in travel items, reduction in the number and duration of missions, increased use of videoconferencing and optimisation of translation and interpretation services. i welcome this report, which calls for continued budgetary discipline and advocates the normal functioning of the european institutions through a serious and prudent management of european money.
in writing. − we express our concern at the current limitations on the right of members to speak in their mother tongue, both in official meetings and when tabled amendments in committee. we call for a more rational and democratic use of resources and staff and draw attention to the fact that their reduction leads to a deterioration of democratic rights and limits in particular the scope for action and intervention of the smaller political groups. the dismissals and/or the limitation of the rights of workers in translation and interpretation services lead to a deterioration in the quality of these services and are contrary to the principle of multilingualism. we have defended the principle of permanent employment contracts for permanent posts. we do not consider that these principles are guaranteed in the report.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering first of all that robust legislation on non-financial transparency will allow investors and citizens to properly assess the true level of corporate social responsibility within companies and businesses operating in the european union. the growing recognition of the role of 'social responsibility' played by business can be interpreted and considered from different perspectives. on the one hand, the process of globalisation and the emergence of 'global' markets favour the development of social and environmental standards by companies; on the other hand, an increasingly attentive and informed society 'demands' that firms behave more responsibly. the dual drive behind the evolution of csr towards an international governance system, defined by some as post-national, reflects the complementarity of interests between business and society at large, which justifies a broader and more forward-looking approach to the subject in order to exploit csr's full potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in assessing the social responsibility of a company, the behaviour of the companies in its supply chain as well as of the subcontracted companies must be taken into account.
in writing. − in line with the reasons for my vote in favour of report a7-0023/2013, i voted in favour of this report on corporate social responsibility (csr) which focuses on responsible and transparent business behaviour. i would like to highlight in this report the proposals to improve the transparency and effectiveness of csr policies. improving self- and co-regulation processes and becoming more 'responsible' are key steps towards increasing the level of citizens' trust in business and thus reducing the gap between citizens' expectations and their perception of business behaviour. however, while it is necessary to consider csr in a broader context, it must remain essentially voluntary. i would like to emphasise once again the important role that smes, representing 90% of the european business community and acting at local and regional level, can play in spreading csr and promoting sustainable growth. i do, however, recognise the enormous challenges they face in the field of csr and therefore support the package of measures to enhance and strengthen the participation of smes in csr proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the promotion of an innovative business model which is capable of strengthening the reciprocity between companies and the social context in which they operate. the commission and the member states need to support innovative solutions that also enable businesses to address social and environmental challenges, such as smart transport and eco-efficient products, as these services or products are not always easily accessible.
in writing. the commission proposes a new definition of csr as 'the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society'. according to this definition, companies should have a set of internal standards that allow them to integrate their social, environmental and ethical concerns into their business operations. the objective of such policies should be to limit any possible negative impacts of business activity by improving and disseminating best practices, to enhance citizens' confidence, and to ensure that high levels of social responsibility are truly recognised and clearly preferred by consumers. such corporate social responsibility rules, however, should always be a form of self-regulation and not an external imposition.
in writing. - the present report, by mr raffaele baldassarre, deals with corporate social responsibility (csr), more specifically with responsible and transparent behaviour by companies in order to achieve sustainable growth. the aim of this initiative is to assess the policies pursued by enterprises in social terms. many companies do not value their social role and are unaware of the benefits - even financial - that can come from being publicly recognised as socially responsible, which will sooner or later lead to increased public confidence. this requires strengthening the links between social responsibility and competitiveness, improving the transparency and effectiveness of social efficiency policies and helping smes not to undervalue their social role but to show them how they can collectively tackle social and environmental problems. i therefore advocate that these programmes should be voluntary and not compulsory, so as not to penalise companies but to make them feel that this is a real improvement in their performance.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that companies can contribute to the development of the so-called social market economy and to the europe 2020 strategy. it considers that csr also and above all means competitiveness and that certain measures can help to create a community of values between the company, its shareholders and society at large. the new definition inherits the concept previously defined by the commission, according to which companies integrate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and interaction with other stakeholders on a voluntary basis. in short, a view that inherits and is subsidiary to the old theories of class conciliation. precarious and low-paid work, flexicurity, relocations for higher profits, the closure of thousands of businesses, millions of unemployed, poverty: this is the reality in europe on which this report is based (even though it tries to ignore it). it is symptomatic that the report, in the present context, does not say a word about the workers and their problems. more than declarations of intent, wish lists and idyllic visions of the world of work, which ignore the sharpening class conflict in it, we need legal instruments that oblige companies to meet their social and environmental responsibilities.
in writing. − the current global economic crisis may have been the result of errors in transparency and accountability, as well as short-term vision. it is the responsibility of all to learn these lessons to avoid a repetition in the future. csr, if properly implemented and practised by all enterprises, makes a major contribution to restoring the lost confidence needed for a sustainable economic recovery and can also mitigate the social consequences of the economic crisis. when companies take responsibility for society, the environment and workers, this creates a win-win situation at all levels, which helps to increase the basis of trust necessary for their economic success. it is therefore important to make csr part of the corporate responsibility strategy and of society as a whole. many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), are setting an excellent example in this respect. hence my vote.
in writing. - since csr is linked to an economic investment whose benefits are not immediately palpable, it is often seen as a burden for companies with limited resources. this fallacy is also justified by the fact that many smes are not usually aware of the positive effects that social responsibility can have on their economic performance and are not informed about good practices that can increase these benefits. this is the importance of this initiative and of promoting the virtues of corporate social responsibility, particularly to smes, which are the engine of the eu economy.
in writing. − in the course of their economic activity, enterprises should do their utmost to reduce the adverse effects of their activity on society. the same goes for the fact that their responsible behaviour as economic agents is the key to sustainable economic growth. corporate social responsibility in the european union is a combination of mandatory and voluntary measures, and this combination should prevail as a way of ensuring that the implementation of environmental and social policies is not done by the private sector. like the rapporteur, i agree that social responsibility policies should always depend on the economic and financial capacities and needs of the companies themselves to implement them. i believe that companies should improve the processes related to the transparency of their activities, as a way to improve the relations between them and their consumers, customers and the general population. the promotion and implementation of mandatory measures should not undermine the competitiveness of enterprises in general and of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. particular attention should be paid to the impact of these same measures on the eu's outermost regions, whose economic and structural environment is already a reduction in their competitiveness. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the 'new' definition of social responsibility advocated here is the heir to the concept previously defined by the commission that 'companies integrate social and environmental concerns into their business activities and interaction with other stakeholders on a voluntary basis'. it is symptomatic that in a report on 'corporate social responsibility' and in the context of a serious economic and social crisis, we do not find a single word addressed to workers and their problems. we believe that what is needed today is not a declaration of intent or a wish list and congratulations to 'good companies', but a legal instrument which will oblige companies to fulfil their social responsibilities in the area of the protection of working conditions, health at work and the environment. it is the duty of states and not a matter of 'good will' and codes of conduct of companies to protect workers against violations of human and contractual rights by companies, to hold companies accountable, to support freedom of association and collective bargaining, to provide workers with access to justice. it is the duty of the states to criminalise tax evasion or the use of tax havens.
in writing. - i approve this report, supporting a wide range of other actions proposed in the communication. i suggest that greater importance be attached to integrating csr into the curriculum of traditional business schools, promoting csr in small enterprises through the sectoral approach and establishing an 'audit' to ensure that the planned csr awards are in line with world and european best practice. i would highlight the ideas recommended in the report for people inside and outside companies to work together to achieve this, such as the launch of corporate citizenship initiatives in the framework of the '2013 european year of citizens', the investigation of the cumulative impact of csr in solving social and environmental problems, in order to highlight the urgency of the challenges and the need for a proposal for a new 'covenant' with civil society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european parliament's resolution on the eu 2020 strategy affirms the existence of an inextricable link between corporate responsibility and corporate governance.
in writing. − we are committed to building a strong and competitive europe, geared towards sustainable growth, in order to consolidate economic recovery. at the heart of this process must be a social perspective as a driver of growth. the question of extending social responsibility to enterprises at european level is therefore a major challenge. in fact, the strategic analysis of corporate social responsibility is an increasingly important element of business competitiveness. it should thus contribute to risk management, cost containment, capital raising, consumer relations, personnel management and innovation capacity. in this way, by promoting social responsibility, companies are encouraging workers, consumers and citizens to have more confidence in them. i agree that care must be taken not to create an overly rigid definition of social entrepreneurship for the whole of europe, resulting in overly strict regulation with no room for flexibility. i therefore support the creation of common principles which take account of the political, economic and social strategies and the conditions of the various member states. i also hope that a whole range of corporate citizenship initiatives can be launched as soon as possible in the context of the european year of citizens in 2013.
in writing. - corporate social responsibility (csr) can be defined as the set of actions resulting from the awareness of their impact on society at the social, environmental, ethical, human rights, consumer protection level, which companies voluntarily undertake in their current practices and which go beyond their legal obligations to society. i believe that the current need to restart sustainable growth in europe has highlighted the added value of csr in the eu, demonstrating that restoring confidence in business is vital to restoring confidence in the recovery of the european economy, so i voted in favour of this report. i would add that we must bear in mind the role and contribution of european companies to sustainable development outside the european area and that in a global economy the chains of production and value are transnational. i therefore support the rapporteur's suggestion for the inclusion of a clause on social and environmental responsibility in all bilateral trade and investment agreements signed by the eu and the development of concrete proposals for the application of internationally agreed csr principles in the framework of eu trade policy.
in writing. the commission proposes a new definition of csr as 'the responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society'. according to this definition, companies should have a set of internal standards that allow them to integrate their social, environmental and ethical concerns into their business operations. the objective of such policies should be to limit any possible negative impacts of business activity by improving and disseminating best practices, to enhance citizens' confidence, and to ensure that high levels of social responsibility are truly recognised and clearly preferred by consumers.
in writing. - the present report, by mr richard howitt, is about corporate social responsibility (csr), more specifically about promoting the interests of society and the way forward towards a sustainable and inclusive recovery. i welcome the broad consensus around this initiative, which i voted for, and which shows that the european parliament (ep) recognises the role that business plays in overcoming the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing. a year and a half after the debate on this issue began, we have completed this legislative project which will bring more visibility to businesses and greater confidence to citizens and workers. i have no doubt that socially responsible companies are more efficient and more competitive in the medium term. i welcome the concern expressed by the various institutions to coordinate their positions, to speak with one voice, and to do everything possible to avoid small and mediumsized enterprises having to bear more costs because of new administrative burdens. finally, i urge the european union and the member states to take action against those exporting countries to europe whose business sector does not respect the three pillars of entrepreneurship: social, economic and environmental.
in writing. - another report on corporate social responsibility, this time from the committee on employment and social affairs. we reaffirm what we said about the other report on this same subject, which was also voted on in this sitting. the big issue that this report avoids is that workers are being brutally attacked for their rights - wage cuts, breaches of collective labour agreements through the imposition of deregulation of working hours and working time, dismissals and relocations in pursuit of maximum profit and increased exploitation, etc., etc. - and that the eu is a key player in this attack. so the debate is tainted from the start. what is needed today is not pious and inconsequential vows, declarations of good intentions, but strict compliance with the legal obligations of companies in terms of labour rights, social protection, working conditions, health and safety at work. and it is the duty of the states to ensure that. it is also necessary that it immediately stops the attack on labour legislation, aimed at subverting it, as is happening in portugal.
in writing. − the current global economic crisis may have been the result of errors in transparency and accountability, as well as short-term vision. it is the responsibility of all to learn these lessons to avoid a repetition in the future. csr, if properly implemented and practised by all enterprises, makes a major contribution to restoring the lost confidence needed for a sustainable economic recovery and can also mitigate the social consequences of the economic crisis. when companies take responsibility for society, the environment and workers, this creates a win-win situation at all levels, which helps to increase the basis of trust necessary for their economic success. it is therefore important to make csr part of the corporate responsibility strategy and of society as a whole. many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), are setting an excellent example in this respect. this is the path we must take to achieve sustainable growth and to avoid future crises. hence my vote.
in writing. - i naturally voted in favour of the howitt report on corporate social responsibility, which is a remarkable step forward in defining the concept and its implications and in making it politically visible. three points in particular should be emphasised: (i) the inclusion of the social dimension in the concept of csr, alongside and in the same vein as the traditional environmental dimension; (ii) the importance of establishing and generalizing an obligation for companies to report on the fulfilment of their csr obligations; (iii) the importance of csr in external trade relations and foreign direct investment. csr is to be considered as an essential component of the concept of social market economy, which characterises the economic order of the european union (in accordance with article 3 (3) of the treaty on european union), and of the concept of sustainable economic, social and environmental development, which is to guide the union's action in external relations (article 21 (2) (d) teu).
in writing. the commission's latest communication on corporate social responsibility incorporates corporate social responsibility into european thinking, a policy area in which the european parliament has played a decisive role. it also represents a major step forward in responding to the dialogue with parliament and stakeholders in the debate on corporate social responsibility since the previous communication. it puts corporate social responsibility in the context of the current economic crisis and stresses its indispensable role in restoring confidence in business and in a sustainable economic recovery. i agree with this line of action and with the considerations made in this report, and therefore i have voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - corporate social responsibility in the european union is a combination of mandatory and voluntary measures. as a matter of corporate social responsibility, it is understood that in the course of their economic activity, companies should do their utmost to reduce the adverse effects of their activity on society. like the rapporteur, i agree that social responsibility policies should always depend on the economic and financial capacities and needs of the companies themselves to implement them. however, where voluntary or mandatory social responsibility policies exist, they should follow minimum standards such as the guidelines defined by the oecd and the guiding principles defined by the un. transparency in the business community should be encouraged to the maximum extent possible, and i therefore support the rapporteur in supporting the commission in formulating a legislative proposal on disclosure of the non-financial interests of companies. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the question is: in times of crisis, what are the real problems of workers? the reduction of wages, the breach of collective agreements by the imposition of deregulation of working hours and working time, the dismissals and relocations that only serve to increase the profits of the entrepreneurs... in other words, what is needed today is not declarations of good intentions but simply strict compliance with the legal obligations of companies in terms of labour rights, social protection, working conditions, health and safety at work. and it is the duty of the states to ensure that. in this way, these concepts only serve to whitewash the failure of companies and the lack of state control in relation to labour rights. on the other hand, we do not accept the notion that the staff of the european institutions should be available to promote european policies through 'volunteering' which would, in theory, serve as an example for other staff. this would constitute an unacceptable exploitation and exploitation of the staff of the european institutions.
in writing. - i approve this report, very much supporting this proposal as a pragmatic and useful approach to combating vat fraud, in particular 'carousel' fraud, in times of budgetary restrictions and austerity. in my view, the proposal provides a real european added value and responds to the requirements of the 'green paper on the future of vat' and to the earlier calls by the european parliament to step up efforts to combat tax evasion and tax fraud. vat fraud is thought to cost the eu and national budgets several billion euros annually. vat fraud also harms legitimate and law-abiding businesses. in 2005/06, fraud involving the 'carrousel' type of dummy operator in the eu amounted to some eur 14.8 billion. the commission proposal would allow member states to react more 'quickly and effectively' to vat fraud.
in writing. − on 31 july 2012, the european commission presented a proposal for a rapid response mechanism (rrm) which allows member states to react to vat fraud more quickly and effectively. the european union loses several billion euros a year to this fraud, and the system for combating it is time-consuming and very bureaucratic. the new procedure will allow member states to react to fraud almost immediately, while more permanent measures are being created. it thus becomes a key mechanism in the fight against tax fraud and evasion, while safeguarding public revenues at a time of fiscal constraints and austerity. the commission is also proposing some improvements to the ec proposal, such as the introduction of a prior consultation period, ensuring that the new legislation does not harm compliant businesses or taxpayers, and the involvement of this proposal in a long-term strategy to combat vat fraud. the proposal represents an important step forward in this area and i support it.
in writing. − on 31 july 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a rapid response mechanism (rrm) which allows member states to react to vat fraud more quickly and effectively. by acting more quickly and by charging the beneficiaries of the goods/services concerned, countries will be able to combat complex and linked fraud schemes more effectively. the european union loses several billion euros a year to this fraud, and the system for combating it is time-consuming and very bureaucratic. the new procedure will allow the member state to react to fraud almost immediately, while more permanent measures are being created. it thus becomes a key mechanism in the fight against tax fraud and evasion, while safeguarding public revenues at a time of fiscal constraints and austerity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the proposal provides real added value in these areas and i therefore support it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. vat fraud is estimated to cost the eu and national budgets several billion euros annually. we cannot allow vat fraud to harm legitimate and law-abiding businesses.
in writing. − vat fraud costs national budgets several billion euros annually and in some cases, such as during the period from june 2008 to december 2009, vat fraud in relation to greenhouse gas emission allowances resulted in an estimated loss of five billion euros. in june 2012, the commission put forward a proposal for a rapid response mechanism (rrm) which will allow member states to respond to vat fraud more quickly and effectively. under the mrr, a member state faced with a serious case of sudden and large-scale vat fraud may apply certain emergency measures in a way that is not permitted under current vat legislation. this is all the more relevant at a time when several member states are going through difficult periods in their economies and are undertaking difficult fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stabilisation measures, and the fight against vat fraud should be an eu priority.
in writing. − the shortage of financial resources at european level, resulting from the economic and financial crisis which has led to a sharp decline in consumption and the bankruptcy of many companies, has led to a significant reduction in public revenue, particularly in value added tax (vat), with direct implications for both national and community budgets. on the other hand, there is an increasing number of tax evasion by crossborder companies issuing bogus invoices or engaging in 'carousel' fraud, which harms not only the public purse but also the companies that are doing the right thing and are faced with this unfair competition. i welcome the commission's initiative to implement a rapid action mechanism against vat fraud - a fraud that costs member states billions of euros every year - which complements other existing anti-fraud instruments. because this is the greatest form of tax fraud, i welcome the adoption of this report by mr david casa and hope that it will be implemented quickly, because this is a fight for the honest citizen, for good business practices and against unfair competition.
in writing. - vat fraud reduces national budgets and the eu's own by several billion euros. it should be remembered that the so-called austerity policy, by reducing the purchasing power of workers by reducing wages and raising taxes (including vat itself) also reduces this revenue. the creation of the rapid reaction mechanism, enabling member states to react and deal with new forms of fraud, can have positive consequences. currently, if a member state wishes to respond to vat fraud by taking measures not provided for in eu vat legislation, it must submit a formal request for a derogation. the commission then draws up a proposal to this effect, which it sends to the council for unanimous approval so that the measures can be implemented. this process can be slow and complex, causing delays for the member state concerned in taking the necessary measures to prevent fraud. if there is a genuine concern about combating tax fraud and tax evasion, then measures should be taken to put an end to the free movement of capital. measures such as the end of tax havens genuine wastehouses of millions of public funds. its maintenance (as a dogma) renders ineffective measures that appear to be well-intentioned.
in writing. - this proposal is very relevant as a pragmatic approach and useful in the fight against vat fraud, especially 'carousel' fraud, in times of budgetary restrictions and austerity. this proposal is a real european asset, since it responds to the requirements of the rapporteur in his previous report on the 'green paper on the future of vat' and to the earlier calls made by the european parliament to increase efforts to combat tax evasion and fraud. vat fraud costs the eu and national budgets several billion euros a year, so this proposal with the rapid reaction mechanism is designed to strengthen the fight against tax fraud in the eu and to safeguard public revenues. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european union loses several billion euros annually to vat fraud. the current system for combating vat fraud is time-consuming and very bureaucratic. on 31 july 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a rapid response mechanism (rrm) which allows member states to react to vat fraud more quickly and effectively, acting more quickly and burdening the beneficiaries of the goods/services concerned. with this system, countries will be able to combat complex and linked fraud schemes more effectively. the new procedure will allow the member state to react to fraud almost immediately, while more permanent measures are being created. it thus becomes a key mechanism in the fight against tax fraud and evasion, while safeguarding public revenues at a time of fiscal constraints and austerity. in agreeing with this mechanism and with the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, in particular the inclusion of this proposal in a long-term strategy to combat vat fraud, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − at the end of july 2012, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive on the common system of value added tax as regards the rapid reaction mechanism against fraud. i support this report which aims to contribute to increasing the efficiency of vat in the context of fiscal consolidation, and tax collection and the fight against tax evasion must be improved. i believe that public revenue could increase if there is a continuous fight against carousel fraud which is perpetuated on an international scale due to the rigid reaction of the european authorities. faced with ineffective action at european level, member states may be tempted to take immediate action without an adequate legal basis in eu law and may later be challenged in court for lack of a legal basis. it is essential that there be a reinforcement of the supervision of vat collection systems in the european union and that integrated measures be taken to combat tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. - vat fraud reduces national budgets and the eu's own by several billion euros. the so-called austerity policy, which reduces the purchasing power of workers by reducing wages and raising taxes, also reduces this revenue. the creation of the mrr, enabling member states to react and deal with new forms of fraud, can have positive consequences. currently, if a member state wishes to respond to vat fraud by taking measures not provided for in eu vat legislation, it must submit a formal request for a derogation. the commission draws up a proposal to this effect and submits it to the council for unanimous approval so that the measures can be implemented. this process can be slow and complex, causing delays for the member state in taking the necessary measures to prevent fraud. this possibility should not, however, be an exception but rather an inalienable sovereign right of all member states. if there is a genuine concern about combating tax fraud and tax evasion, then measures should be taken to put an end to the free movement of capital. its maintenance (as a dogma) renders apparently well-intentioned measures ineffective.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that the commission needs to change its position on the annual growth survey. there is no growth in europe at present and only 0.1% growth is forecast by the european commission. we must ask ourselves how long the european commission and the member states, who are seeing the devastating effects of budgetary and fiscal austerity, will remain in the same position on growth? in my view, that is not acceptable. the commission and the member states themselves present a major contradiction when they say that austerity will 'save' the economic and financial situation of the member states and at the same time they talk about economic growth, while they only take counterproductive measures in relation to economic growth. finally, i would like to stress that if the imf itself has already lowered its growth expectations, i think that is a clear signal for the european union to take alternative measures.
in writing. − this report is part of the european semester process for the coordination of the economic policies of the eu member states. it contributes to the european parliament's opinion on the 2013 annual growth survey (ags) prepared by the european commission. the commission proposal is generally supported. parliament nevertheless considers it important to emphasize a few essential points. it considered it essential that the process of economic and financial adjustment in the member states be accompanied by a growth-friendly strategy adapted to the specific characteristics of each country. it stresses the strategic benefits of using the flexibility of economic adjustment as set out in the stability and growth pact. the recommendation is also left to control public spending so that it does not exceed the level of economic growth, to manage excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the member states (deficits and surpluses) and to promote sustainable, environmentally friendly growth, supported by the promotion of a flexible labour market that helps to combat youth unemployment. i support this report, which recognises the important contribution of the european parliament in the development of the economic governance processes of the european union.
in writing. − the annual growth survey marks the start of the so-called european semester a practice introduced in 2010 and which, in the parlance of the institutions, translates into the method of policy coordination to enable member states to align their economic and budgetary policies with the stability and growth pact and the europe 2020 strategy. the objective of the european semester is not only to ensure the financial stability of the eu, but also to stimulate sustainable growth through reforms, in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore vote in favour of this own-initiative report. the commission's recommendations in its growth survey 2013 are based on five fiscal, economic and social priorities for member states. in particular, the promotion of sustainable growth and competitiveness, combined with the fight against unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, the modernisation of public administration, the reduction of national debts without undermining growth and the restoration of normal lending practices to the economy. i would stress, in view of the situation in my country, that fiscal consolidation which is growth friendly seems to me to be necessary to overcome the crisis, but, and i emphasize this, the measures implemented so far are finally beginning to have positive and encouraging effects.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it was not possible to include in the final proposal measures which would help to readjust the austerity effort by making the time of the budgetary consolidation exercise more flexible. the position of the right-wing political groups in the european parliament, which have rejected proposals to soften the austerity measures that are having a devastating effect on several eurozone economies, is regrettable.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of the report, i believe that it could have gone further in line with the rapporteur's proposals. fiscal consolidation must be smart to allow growth. i voted in favour of amendment no 2 which referred to the possibility that a possible adjustment of the deadline for correcting excessive deficits in specific cases could be justified, in full respect of the spirit and letter of the stability and growth pact, as amended by the six-pack on economic governance, which the member states respect. i also voted in favour of amendment no 3 which called on the council and the commission to monitor and assess the process of fiscal adjustment and its impact on the economic situation of the member states and, on the basis of the principle of differentiated, smart and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, to monitor intensively the effects of the adjustment deadlines on growth and consolidation, to recognise the strategic benefits that the flexibility of the sgp confers in periods of severe economic recession and to take these elements into account when analysing the medium-term budgetary objective.
in writing. the differences between the right and the social democrats in the process of drawing up and discussing this report, which were also expressed in the final vote, do not hide the essential point: it is the consensus between these two families that has guided the essential process of european capitalist integration, including the lines of response to the crisis in which the eu is immersed. it is not pointless disagreements on incidental aspects that hide the joint support for the budgetary treaty, economic governance and the european semester and what these instruments mean as an attack on democracy and the sovereignty of the peoples. the consensus extends to 'budgetary consolidation', 'structural reforms' and other jargon which means nothing more than a brutal attack on the civilizational achievements of the workers and peoples and, to that extent, represents a civilizational retreat. even on the question of debt mutualization, the consensus between the two is clear in support of the "stability bonds" an instrument of extortion and domination of the centre over the periphery, far from any idea of solidarity sharing the burden of debt. we have voted against this report. not because of any punctual and opportunistic demarcation of the results of these policies, but because we consistently condemn and combat them.
in writing. − to overcome the crisis, activities and sectors that promote sustainable growth and generate green jobs are needed. solutions specifically targeting the current sovereign and financial debt crisis, including appropriate structural reforms, should be accompanied by measures that foster the competitiveness and long-term growth of the european economy and restore confidence. only with the right austerity measures and economic incentives can we find a way out of the crisis we are going through.
in writing. − parliament considers it important to highlight some key points in the european commission's proposal on the annual growth survey (ags) 2013. this report considers it essential that the process of economic and financial adjustment in the member states is accompanied by a growth-friendly strategy, tailored to the characteristics of each country, and also emphasises the strategic benefits of using the flexibility of economic adjustment as set out in the stability and growth pact. this report is part of the european semester process for the coordination of economic policies in the eu member states. i voted in favour of this report because i also agree with the recommendation that public spending should be controlled so that it does not exceed the level of economic growth, that excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the member states (deficits and surpluses) should be managed and that sustainable, environmentally friendly growth should be promoted, supported by the promotion of a flexible labour market that helps to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. − this report is a contribution by the european parliament to the european semester process, containing its opinion on the 2013 annual growth survey (ags). the commission proposal is generally supported, but parliament considers it important to emphasize a few essential points. it considered it essential that the process of economic and financial adjustment in the member states be accompanied by a growth-friendly strategy adapted to the specific characteristics of each country. it stresses the strategic benefits of using the flexibility of economic adjustment as set out in the sgp. it also recommends controlling public spending, managing excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the member states and promoting sustainable, environmentally friendly growth, supported by the promotion of a flexible labour market that helps to combat youth unemployment. i think that this is a balanced report, which equates the need for a growth strategy and points to the flexibility of the budgetary adjustment procedures, and i therefore voted in favour. i cannot, however, fail to regret the fact that some of the rapporteur's proposals, which emphasized these aspects and ensured greater adaptation to the realities of the countries under adjustment, were not adopted.
in writing. - i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that further fiscal consolidation is necessary to achieve sound public accounts and to reduce public debt, since above 90% of debt there will be no sustainable growth. at the same time, however, member states should introduce the structural reforms needed to avoid future government deficits and to achieve sustainable growth. i am therefore in favour of intelligent differentiation and flexibility, according to the needs of each member state, taking into account the stability and growth pact. i would therefore like to stress the need to make labour markets more flexible so that young people can enter the labour market more easily. the single market, a source of growth and jobs in the european union, where smes play a major role, also needs to be completed. call for political union in the member states to take the necessary structural measures which in the short term may have negative effects on the lives of citizens, but which in the medium and long term will bring sustainable growth, based on eu2020. coordination of the european semester with national fiscal policies is essential for true economic governance.
in writing. - our people say that "when the comadres are angry, the truth is revealed". a wise popular wisdom that could be perfectly applied to the split between the right and the social democracy in this vote. not that any previously unknown secrets have been revealed, but the process of this report has certainly made clearer the two versions of the same policy. despite different votes, both propose to maintain the course of economic and social disaster that has been implemented in the eu, in particular in countries such as portugal, promoting the concentration and centralization of capital in the large economic and financial groups and the great powers. there is no such thing as 'european solidarity'; this is demonstrated by processes such as the european semester. the solution for countries like portugal is not through the so-called 'fiscal consolidation' which is destroying social and labour rights, public services and productive capacity. this can only lead to more crises, inequalities, social injustices. nor does it go beyond the so-called 'mutualization of debt', which will translate into less sovereignty and the strengthening of the power of the great powers and of big financial capital. the debt in portugal is renegotiated and the speculative part cancelled, and national production is increased and defended.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing first and foremost that the european commission must face up to the facts and re-evaluate its economic development models. europe will not be able to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020 if it does not move beyond short-term austerity policies, which are degrading in terms of recent employment and growth figures. what europe needs are investment targets and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, taking better account of the specific situations of each member state. i also stress the role of parliaments, which must be more involved in order to overcome the lack of democratic accountability of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies.
in writing. − 2012 was a disastrous year for employment in europe. in the 27 member states, almost 26 million european citizens are out of work. unemployment rates have reached historic highs, especially for young people. in my country, portugal, more than one in three young people are looking for a job and have no prospect of finding one. economic growth and job creation must be the european union's top priorities. i therefore supported this report on the annual growth survey for 2013 which sets out what the european union's priorities should be for the next 12 months in terms of reforms and fiscal, economic, social and employment policies. member states should pursue gradual and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation in order to avoid negative short-, medium- and long-term effects on growth and employment.
in writing. − job creation through structural reforms and growth-oriented investment, as well as the fight against poverty and social exclusion, must be central to eu social policies and national agendas. i therefore vote in favour of this own-initiative report. in 2012, the employment situation deteriorated in the eu, bringing the unemployment rate to 10,5%. but this high figure conceals more worrying realities, including a wide discrepancy between the real situation in the various member states and youth unemployment. today, about one in four of our young people is unemployed, but in some member states the proportion rises to one in two. it is urgent to make youth unemployment a priority in the eu and member states. the development of global strategies to combat the problem, including investment in education and training and encouragement of cooperation between education and business, is essential to better meet the needs of a labour market that is also more adaptable, dynamic and inclusive, and that responds with better quality jobs. to this end, fiscal consolidation must be pursued in a differentiated and proportionate manner, in a way that is favourable to growth and ensures economic recovery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for urging the european council to make youth unemployment a priority of the political guidelines for 2013. the unemployment situation is worrying, especially among young people. it is urgent that member states take action to combat youth unemployment and address the problem of skills mismatches in the labour market.
in writing. - the european semester is now seen as an essential pillar of the new economic governance framework. in its annual growth survey for 2013, the commission identified as priorities for 2013 (i) pursuing growth-friendly differentiated fiscal consolidation; (ii) restoring normal lending practices to the economy; (iii) promoting growth and competitiveness; (iv) addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and (v) modernising public administration. like the rapporteur, whom i welcome, i believe that it is essential to tackle the problem of unemployment by reforming and making the labour market more flexible, making it more dynamic, adaptable and inclusive, and by pursuing a growth strategy based on specialisation and the competitiveness of the three productive sectors for job creation.
in writing. − our colleague veronica lope fontagné reports on the european semester for economic policy coordination: social and employment aspects in the 2013 annual growth survey by the european commission. the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing must be seen as a challenge for the european union (eu), an opportunity to take action against wasteful spending and to focus on productive initiatives that promote economic growth and job creation, especially youth employment. this requires member states to adopt structural reforms, such as tax harmonisation and the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, simplification of bureaucratic procedures and greater flexibility in social, economic and financial policies. only in this way will we be contributing to reducing youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. i voted in favour of this report because it goes along with the need to achieve a balanced budget, if we are to demand that the member states make a greater commitment to measures to promote economic growth in order to achieve the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − in view of the presentation by the european commission of the annual growth survey (ags) for 2013 at the opening of the european semester, the committee on employment and social affairs decided, with this report, to make some recommendations on social and employment issues. we know what the aac's 2012 recommendations were for portugal: we need to lay off more and more easily, we need to reduce the price of labour more. this in the country with the lowest wages in europe and the highest unemployment rates. this report, although it raises concerns about the consequences of the crisis and the impact of fiscal consolidation policies on employment in several member states, does not propose, as was supposed, any break with the neoliberal policies that brought us into the crisis. on the contrary, it advocates continuing fiscal consolidation policies, but in a growth-friendly way. the miraculous reconciliation that reality has shown is nothing more than a grotesque contradiction. the solution to the crisis and the social problems in the member states is a fairer distribution of income, an increase in workers' wages and their rights, and the social fair use of increased labour productivity.
in writing. − to overcome the crisis, activities and sectors that promote sustainable growth and generate green jobs are needed. solutions specifically targeting the current sovereign and financial debt crisis, including appropriate structural reforms, should be accompanied by measures that foster the competitiveness and long-term growth of the european economy and restore confidence. only with the right austerity measures and economic incentives can we find a way out of the crisis we are going through. we need to find mechanisms to stimulate economic growth if we are to achieve good results in reducing unemployment, which is very severe in some member states, particularly those in receipt of assistance. hence my vote.
in writing. − the european union's priorities for the next 12 months in terms of fiscal, economic, social and employment reforms and policies have been set out in five points: pursuing differentiated growth-friendly fiscal consolidation; restoring normal lending to the economy; promoting growth and competitiveness now and in the future; addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and modernising public administration. the increase in poverty and unemployment across all age groups requires that the fight against poverty and unemployment be a central element of eu and national social policy agendas. member states should implement active and integrated inclusion strategies and make new commitments to address this situation, in particular working poverty, poverty of people with little or no connection to the labour market and poverty of older people. these problems can only be tackled by perfect coordination between all european political actors, making the most of the scarce resources available. i believe that these views are correct and i agree with the political strategy which has been set out here to combat this situation, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the priorities set out in the 2013 csf are the same as those presented in 2012, a dark year for the european economy in economic and social terms, with unprecedented levels of unemployment. the eu2020 objectives are further away from being achieved by individual member states, so more than a one-size-fits-all policy is needed, but rather specific and individual recommendations for each member state for the correct adoption of national reform programmes. there should be a balance between fiscal consolidation and measures to support growth and employment, including through support for entrepreneurship, increased access to finance for smes, and wage and productivity alignment. the aim is to combat youth unemployment and poverty reduction in europe by making labour markets more flexible and by increasing mobility between regions and countries in the union. i would also like to congratulate the adoption of the youth guarantee facility.
in writing. − in view of the presentation by the european commission of the annual growth survey for 2013 at the opening of the european semester, the committee on employment and social affairs decided, with this report, to make some recommendations on social and employment issues. however, despite concerns about the consequences of the crisis and the impact of so-called fiscal consolidation policies on the increase in unemployment rates in several member states, no break with so-called austerity policies is proposed. on the contrary, this report, which was adopted by the right-wing and social democratic majority in the commission, advocates continuing cuts in public investment, lowering wage levels and unit labour costs, further withdrawal of labour rights, raising the retirement age and cuts in the contribution of companies to social security systems. although the report is awash with intentions about the need for growth and job creation, what is certain is that if there is no break with the policies that have been implemented, it will not be by any 'magic touch' that the same policies will lead to different results.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that a well-functioning single market economically, environmentally and socially is a basic issue for the european semester. i therefore believe that to achieve real improvements, we need clearer and more rigorous governance of the single market. to this end, it is particularly important to establish a transparent and predictable framework that adequately and regularly reflects any positive and negative results achieved by member states in terms of implementation. the single market governance cycle should be considered in the light of the european semester, which already addresses not only economic and budgetary aspects but also employment-related aspects. given the economic importance of the single market, regular assessment of its situation would add value to these assessments and complete the picture. in this sense, in my view, the european semester should serve as a platform and cycle to provide the above-mentioned policy guidance. to this end, it is suggested that a pillar of the single market be created alongside the economic and budgetary aspects.
in writing. − to revitalise the european economy, boost growth and competitiveness and create jobs, europe needs a functioning, effective and barrier-free single market, which will contribute to an additional 4% of gdp growth over the next ten years. to achieve this objective, the commission needs to carry out in-depth impact assessments that substantiate the need to legislate on the single market and should give priority to the regulation rather than the directives as a legal instrument for legislation. member states should transpose directives in a consistent manner and adopt all new provisions relating to an eu legislative act jointly and simultaneously. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. stronger governance of the single market will help to remove remaining restrictions and allow all players to reap the full benefits of the four freedoms. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that concrete action is still needed, at member state and union level, to fully achieve the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital in the european union. whereas the opening up of new business opportunities for enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), notably through a rigorous application of the sme compatibility test in the context of impact assessments undertaken by the commission and parliament, the rapid advancement of the smart regulation agenda and legislation adapted to different types of enterprises, where appropriate, without prejudice to overall objectives such as health and safety at the workplace, can also contribute to the revitalisation of european economies.
in writing. - 20 years after its creation, the single market is still not fully implemented, because member states, contrary to their initial commitments, have not yet transposed or fully implemented the acquis of directives and regulations. i believe that the single market has a key role to play in the social cohesion of the eu and that to achieve real improvements in its governance, it needs to be more transparent and rigorous. i therefore vote in favour of this own-initiative report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the member states. improving the functioning of the single market means improving the conditions of competition for our businesses, in particular smes, which is why it is essential to improve the transposition of legislation, the enforcement and monitoring of compliance with the common rules, and the enforcement measures against offenders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the governance of the single market, considering that the proper functioning of the single market, balanced from the economic, social and environmental points of view, contributes, within the framework of the european semester, to growth, employment and social cohesion.
in writing. − in 2012, the single market turned 20 years old, during which many steps were taken towards its realisation, with the development of various tools and instruments. as a result of this 20-year journey, the single market is now a key engine for economic growth and employment in the european union. especially at this time of severe economic and financial crisis, the internal market is indeed the best tool we have to restore growth to the eu economies and it must be used correctly, effectively and decisively. putting the single market at the service of citizens and businesses is essential to boosting the european economy, creating jobs and improving competitiveness.
in writing. - the creation of the single market (sm) is a wish that everyone has. however, its substantiation requires member states to adopt policies and measures which not all are willing to implement. it is not enough to say that we are in favour of certain initiatives if they are not implemented. i therefore urge the european commission, as the 'guardian of the treaties', to do everything possible to ensure that the member states apply swiftly the rules and directives adopted by the european institutions, and in particular by this parliament. we cannot disappoint the citizens in their expectations by preventing them from using their rights, particularly cross-border rights, and by calling into question the single market. better coordination between the ms is therefore required. i voted in favour of the report by mr andreas schwab on the governance of the single market because i agree that the european semester is a vital instrument for dealing with the challenges we face in the fight against unemployment and austerity. economic growth and competitiveness will necessarily require fiscal consolidation, increased credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, economic growth, the fight against unemployment and the modernisation and flexibility of public administration. we must reverse the situation which has thrown about 2.5 million people into unemployment in the last few months alone.
in writing. - the european parliament intends to make recommendations to the european commission on the governance of the single market. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, which will be adopted by the council on 1 january. the single market is here presented as essential for job creation, growth and economic and social cohesion. finally, the usual rhetoric that decades of 'free competition in the single market' belies the complacency. the single market has gone hand in hand with the weakening of the economically most vulnerable countries, the destruction of productive capacity and the increase in their external dependence. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that is the driving force behind the process of european integration. reasons enough to vote against.
in writing. − the financial crisis that started in 2007/2008 and the current global economic recession are having a huge economic and social impact on eu citizens and businesses. after several debates and recriminations between sectors, member states and individual actors, there is a need for coordination and stronger economic governance at eu level, to be put into practice with the so-called 'european semester' in 2011. in this context, the single market plays a key role for citizens and businesses, as it is considered to be the main driver for the promotion of growth and employment, the single market should serve as a basis for restoring competitiveness and fostering sustainable growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. this requires clearer and more rigorous governance of the single market. stronger governance of the single market will help to remove the remaining restrictions and allow all players to reap the full benefits of the four freedoms. hence my vote.
in writing. − the commission has presented a communication on the governance of the single market, in which it proposes a two-pronged approach combining improving the implementation and effective application of single market rules. on the one hand, it aims to achieve rapid progress in key areas. it also proposes to improve the 'governance cycle' by taking into account the way in which single market rules are designed and applied. to achieve concrete improvements, clearer and more rigorous governance of the single market is needed. to this end, it is particularly important to establish a transparent and predictable framework. the single market governance cycle should be considered in the light of the european semester, which already includes employment-related aspects in addition to economic and budgetary aspects. the economic importance of the single market should justify regular assessment of its situation. this will be an added value for the framework of the semiannual evaluations and the evaluation of growth processes, which are to be inclusive and cover all countries and regions, without neglecting one of the main objectives of the european market which is to be truly 'single'.
in writing. - this owninitiative report by the european parliament aims to overcome the shortcomings of the internal market and thus develop a genuine single market, creating growth and jobs, in line with the european semester cycle, with the effective participation of the european parliament and national parliaments. the commission's proposal for 'better governance for the single market' contains key measures, but greater coordination and genuine economic governance are needed, as there is untapped market potential. new instruments need to be assessed, and the adequacy and impact of single market legislation need to be understood. member states should apply the directives properly and for better evaluation of the directives correlation tables should be drawn up more frequently to identify where there is non-transposition or even non-compliance, also applying the eu sweeps and eu pilot instruments. the continuing evaluation of the single market may also lead to specific recommendations to the member states. it is therefore essential that the single market and the eu's economic policies, in particular the european semester, are linked for the effective development of the single market and, consequently, for the improvement of the quality of life of european citizens.
in writing. the ep calls on the commission to present a legislative proposal to strengthen the governance of the single market. the legislative proposal would, among other objectives, have as defined objectives the implementation and enforcement of the transposition of directives by the member states, the obligation for member states to draw up and submit to the commission national action plans aimed at implementing the objectives of what they consider to be 'improving the functioning of the single market' and the definition of a single market pillar in the european semester. the concept of the 'single market' as essential for job creation is supported here. but what has been demonstrated, and what we have always said, is that the single market has gone hand in hand with the weakening of the economically most vulnerable countries, the destruction of their productive capacity and the increase in their external dependence. and always guaranteeing more profits to the big economic and financial groups of the european powers. in other words, the single market does not mean the 'natural balance of the market economy' as liberals insist on trying to demonstrate, but rather the exacerbation of inequalities between countries and between social strata.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, starting by strongly reiterating the importance of the eu's active participation in un human rights mechanisms, including the unhrc, and thus encourage member states to do so by co-sponsoring resolutions, actively participating in interactive debates and dialogues and issuing statements; i strongly support the eu's increasing use of transregional initiatives. i also stress the importance of the creation of the post of eu special representative for human rights (eusr), which in turn should increase the effectiveness, coherence and visibility of eu human rights policy in the context of the unhrc and develop close cooperation with the ohchr and the special procedures. i would remind the potential effectiveness of eu action when it and its member states collectively promote their influence, stressing the importance of further strengthening coordination and cooperation between member states. call for bolder and more ambitious action and concrete commitments; i encourage the eeas, in this context, in particular through the eu delegations in geneva and new york, to increase its coherence through substantive and timely consultations.
in writing. − considering that respect for, and the promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights form part of the legal and ethical acquis of the european union and constitute one of the foundations of european unity and integrity, i express my full support for this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i am pleased to note that the agenda of the 22nd ordinary session of the united nations human rights council includes topical debates such as the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of rights and the right of children to quality health services. eu member states are expected to contribute actively to these debates and to declare unequivocally that human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent.
in writing. − concern and commitment to human rights are one of the founding marks of the european union and one of the things that best define it today. the union's territory fortunately has a high level of respect for and observance of human rights, and externally the union must not abdicate or diminish its efforts to try to attract its partners to the same observance. for the sake of their own equilibrium, the security of their frontiers and the necessary solidarity with the peoples most affected by the disregard for the most elementary values of civilization and decency, the european states must maintain and strengthen their leading position in this matter. there is still a lot to be done, but the efforts already made by the union are commendable. the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council is another opportunity for the member states of the union to coordinate their positions and to seek to promote a demanding global agenda on those rights. it is not enough for the union to be satisfied with its internal standards.
in writing. − the united nations human rights council is the forum where all situations of human rights violations are discussed. the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4), concerns the preparation of the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council. the award of the 2012 nobel peace prize to the european union (eu) is the highest international recognition of the eu's work in defence of human rights over the past decades. at the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council, which will take place on 25 february in geneva, switzerland, it is essential that the eu speaks with one voice and denounces all human rights violations wherever they occur: syria, pakistan, iran, laos, burma, mali, etc. i therefore urge eu representatives to denounce all situations that conflict with eu values and principles, including the persecution of minorities, whether on ethnic or religious grounds, and all forms of freedom of expression, association, information and digital.
in writing. - the majority of parliament's position on the 22nd session of the un human rights council is based on the traditional narrow and instrumental conception of human rights and the usual rambling of arguments which always reveal gross contradictions. the attack by the eu on the rights and achievements of workers and peoples, particularly the portuguese, in terms of their wages and pensions, with serious effects on the limitation of access to food and water, health, housing, education, culture, etc., is an attack on human rights. nevertheless, the majority of this parliament wants to give the world lessons in human rights again. there is no legitimacy or credibility for a majority which has supported and is supporting aggression in libya, afghanistan and iraq, where people continue to die every day because of these wars. a majority that shuts its eyes to the continuing israeli occupation of palestine and the real apartheid regime imposed by the latter, with successive attacks on the most elementary rights of the palestinian people. a majority that remains silent in the face of the targeted killings carried out by drones, commonly known as drones, that kill in central asia, the arabian peninsula, the middle east, the horn of africa and north africa.
in writing. − the promotion and safeguarding of the universality of human rights are part of the european union's legal and ethical acquis and constitute one of the foundations of european unity and integrity it is of the utmost importance that the agenda of the 22nd ordinary session includes debates on the integration of human rights, the negative impact of corruption on the enjoyment of human rights and the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the vienna declaration and programme of action, as well as interactive debates such as the debates on the rights of persons with disabilities, as well as wide-ranging meetings on various issues such as the right of the child to health guaranteed by the highest health standards. it is essential that the european external action service and the eu member states contribute actively to these debates and that they state unequivocally that human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it of the utmost importance that the european union should actively participate in the un mechanisms in the field of human rights, in order to ensure that the same approach and action are pursued in the various areas of intervention.
in writing. − respect for and promotion of human rights are two of the european union's fundamental values, both in its internal and external policies. in september 2012, 18 new members were elected to the united nations human rights council, taking office on 1 january 2013. it is important to highlight the work of the human rights council, particularly in its most recent activities in the context of the arab spring. parliament stressed the importance of this 22nd session, stressing that the situation in syria was still far from what it should be, but that joint efforts were needed to stabilise the situation. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the european parliament's majority position on the 22nd session of the un human rights council is, as usual, hypocritical. a majority that is partly responsible for the profound attack on the rights and achievements of workers and peoples, particularly the portuguese, in wages and pensions, food and access to vital resources such as water, health, housing, education, culture, etc., has no legitimacy or credibility to defend human rights. there is no legitimacy or credibility in a majority which has supported and is supporting aggression in libya, afghanistan and iraq, where people continue to die every day as a result of these wars; a majority which closes its eyes to the continuation of the israeli occupation of palestine and the real apartheid regime imposed by the latter, with successive attacks on the most elementary rights of the palestinian people. a majority that remains silent in the face of the targeted killings carried out by drones, commonly known as drones, that kill in central asia, the arabian peninsula, the middle east, the horn of africa and north africa. murders pre-approved at the highest level, which do not spare civilian populations, including women and children. it is estimated that over 3,000 humans have been killed by it during the past decade.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by drawing attention to the potential benefits of the development and exploitation of e-learning and new technologies, especially search engines, for the economy and, in particular, for small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that the professional development of lawyers should emphasise the need for common standards of professional ethics, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and a diversity-friendly approach to european regulation, as this is the only way to achieve genuine mutual trust. however, noting that the legal systems of the member states, despite their diversity, are based on common principles and share the same origins, and recalling that in europe, until a few centuries ago, legal practitioners were considered a unified body of professionals entitled to give advice, prepare legal documentation and challenge before courts anywhere in europe, i believe that the legal training policy of the european union should be inspired by this fact, which demonstrates the feasibility of full mobility of legal practitioners.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i believe that this is only one of many aspects of european judicial culture; that new training methods and new curricula emphasising language learning and promoting the study of comparative and international law should be extended to universities and law schools; the erasmus programme (for law students and judges) was only a first step.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'judicial training', arguing for the need for a holistic approach to law and a european judicial culture, in order to avoid duplication of effort and to promote quality training projects through greater interconnection between member states in the management of knowledge of union law.
in writing. - european law is part of the legal order of the member states and must be taken into account in the courts. it is clear that the judiciary and the other actors in the judicial system need to be familiar with this branch of law. the purpose of sharing information and experience between judges and the desire to make the application and enforcement of european law more effective and to raise awareness of this new legal dimension are welcome. i hope that the mechanisms now proposed will contribute to this improvement in the application of the law and i appeal to the judges that, despite these new facilities for information which are presented to them, they resist the temptation of excessive uniformity of judicial decisions and preserve intact their judicial function in what is most noble and profound. 'doing justice' means adapting it to the case and to the concrete societies and doing so independently and in compliance with the law. the construction of a 'european judicial culture' cannot be achieved by ignoring or replacing national legal systems, their sovereignty, rules, traditions, practices and judicial practices. the path of justice once again leads to unity in diversity.
in writing. - european citizens are becoming increasingly aware of their rights. as 2013 is the european year of the citizen, awareness of the european charter of fundamental rights is expected to increase, which will lead to increased recourse to the courts. the resolution proposes to make life easier for citizens by improving the provision of judicial services. to do this, all judges and lawyers must be experts not only in european legislation but also in national legislation. it is therefore imperative that they dominate the application of the law in all member states (ms) so that there is no discrepancy in their interpretation from ms to ms. training is an advantage in order to achieve greater equity between all citizens. judges and judicial officials should work on the basis of subsidiarity in order to improve access to information via the web and improve their knowledge of community law and establish a network of grassroots coordinators to allow for the exchange of experience. i voted in favour of this report and i urge the commission to continue with the installation of court coordinators and with the provision of training in order to achieve the objective of having all judicial professionals trained in this area by the year 2020.
in writing. the resolution is part of the stockholm programme, which calls for the creation of a 'european area of justice'. the intention to promote and sponsor the existence of european law coordinators in national courts, as well as the emerging interconnection of national networks of court coordinators, is a step towards the construction of this european area of justice. we have a critical view of the stockholm programme, which extends to this particular aspect of it. justice is one of the pillars of the sovereignty of states and must remain so. this is a condition of democracy itself. improving accessibility to information resources on european law through web-based technologies, promoting knowledge of european law among judges and officials and the existence of european law coordinators in national courts are several dimensions, of varying importance and significance, of the attack on this pillar of sovereignty.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this european parliament resolution on judicial training. identifying needs and suggesting improvements in eu legal training practices, creating a common judicial culture among members of the judiciary, promoting core values in the profession by discussing a common professional ethic, avoiding the politicization of the judiciary, promoting the necessary mutual trust are key factors in making the common judicial area a reality. i welcome the pilot projects presented in this resolution, and i am sure that the future of legal education in europe will increasingly be characterized by high standards. it is now necessary to foster the existence of european law coordinators in national courts, as well as the emerging interconnection of national networks of court coordinators, by encouraging and promoting the ideas set out in the recitals of this resolution and in previously adopted resolutions.
in writing. - considering that all national courts are courts of eu law and that there is no justification for national judges to ignore european law, since they are and should be european judges called upon to play a key role in a context where the notion of more europe is becoming even more necessary, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution of the european parliament on judicial training coordinators in the courts. the promotion of a european judicial culture in which diversity is recognised as a common good is necessary. to this end, it would be important to foster the existence of european law coordinators in national courts as well as the emerging interconnection of national networks of court coordinators, encouraging and promoting the spirit of a european judicial culture.
in writing. − the legal systems of the various member states have some specificities, which make it difficult for citizens or professionals from other countries of origin to acquire legal knowledge. this is all the more so when most companies already operate at european level and find it difficult to deal with the legal systems. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is necessary to promote and support greater coordination between the legal systems of each member state and to encourage increased judicial training for the professionals concerned. finally, i believe that better judicial coordination will be beneficial for the european economy, in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises, as well as the development of training capacities and new technological tools to support training, such as e-learning tools.
in writing. the resolution calls for the creation of a european area of justice, a project which we regard as one of the greatest attacks on one of the central pillars of the sovereignty of states: justice. the resolution calls for the improvement of accessibility to information resources on european law through web technologies, the 'promotion of knowledge of european law among judges and officials' and the 'existence of european law coordinators in national courts'. we believe that the intention to promote and sponsor the existence of european law coordinators in national courts, as well as the emerging interconnection of national networks of court coordinators, is another step towards the construction of the european area of justice, which will be irrevocably linked to the standardisation of matters relating to law and justice, which, in our opinion, must be unconditionally linked to the history, reality and will of each member state.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by showing my support for the decision of the eib's shareholders to increase the fully-capitalized part of the bank by eur 10 billion, which should allow the eib to allocate some eur 60 billion of additional long-term loans. i reiterate the importance of the eib voluntarily complying with the current basel ii capital requirements and suggest that it comply with the future obligations of the basel iii directive, taking into account the specific nature of its business. i think it is very important for the eib to maintain its aaa rating. i would however point out that the overall level of credit risk in the bank's credit portfolio has increased, on the one hand, due to increasing pressures on the solvency of counterparties resulting from the lingering effects of the economic crisis and, on the other hand, due to the increase in credit risk embedded in new operations, and therefore i recommend that the eib take appropriate measures to avoid a deterioration in its credit portfolio in order to support more effectively those businesses and member states that have been harmed by severe austerity policies.
in writing. − the european union is in a period of recovery from the economic crisis, the end of which is not yet clearly in sight, and measures to support strong and sustainable economic growth are needed. the eib's role in the demand for job creation, productivity and competitiveness is of paramount importance and this report recommends closer cooperation between the european commission and the eib, opening the possibility for the eu to subscribe to the capital of the eib. the report focuses on three key points about the eib's activities, which i value and support as a means of promoting the achievement of european objectives. from a financial point of view, it is essential that the bank increases its capital allocation, manages to mobilise private capital in support of priority projects and launches the project bonds project. the priorities for action are support for smes, projects in the social, education and cultural fields, and infrastructure, environment and human rights. as regards transparency of operations, the provision of information on financing, a regulatory framework for monitoring the eib's activities and appropriate supervision by the ecb are called for. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − as the european union is in a period of recovery from the economic crisis, with no clear end in sight, there is an urgent need for measures to support strong, assertive, sustainable economic growth with a focus on innovation, the knowledge industry and infrastructure. the eib's role in the demand for job creation, productivity and competitiveness is of paramount importance and this report recommends closer cooperation between the european commission and the eib, opening the possibility for the eu to subscribe to the capital of the eib. the report focuses on three key points about the eib's activities, which i value and support as a means of promoting the achievement of european objectives. from a financial point of view, it is crucial that the bank increases its capital allocation, manages to mobilise private capital to leverage priority projects and launches the project bonds project. the priorities for action are support for smes, projects in the social, education and cultural fields, and infrastructure, environment and human rights. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. - in the widely known context of the european crisis, which has led the union to progressively impose strict measures to increase discipline and supervision of national debt and budgets, the european investment bank (eib), in supporting growth and employment, has asserted itself as a vital element for the european project and its citizens. the lack of finance, especially for smes, is a barrier to investment and a condition for job creation and wealth generation in the eu. i am voting in favour of this report, stressing the importance of the eib in developing innovative financial instruments to support smes, but also in projects in the social economy, health, culture, education, research or innovation, enabling the union to grow in a sustainable and competitive way. finally, despite the climate of austerity and internal discipline, the union must maintain its action on a global scale through a coherent strategy that balances the political, financial and commercial dimensions. and once again, with its proven project financing capacity and experience, the eib can play an important role as a natural partner of the ec/eea in achieving the union's external cooperation and development policy objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'european investment bank annual report 2011', because it includes proposals to strengthen the eib's role in promoting the european union's growth and employment objectives.
in writing. − first, i would like to congratulate the eib on all the work it has done in 2011 and on the important role it has been playing in the european union's objectives of growth and jobs. in particular, i consider it an important sign that in 2011 the eib targeted 18% of its lending to smes, and i see the new european progress microfinance facility, the pilot phase of the project finance bonds initiative and the agreement to establish a new risk sharing facility (rsf) to support innovative and start-up smes as important signals.
in writing. - mr mauro presents a text on the annual report of the european investment bank (eib) for the financial year 2011. as the bank of the european union (eu), the eib should play a special role in boosting the economy and fighting unemployment. to this end, it is essential that the member states (ms) provide the eib with all the necessary means, including by increasing its capital. i welcome the work done by the eib in support of sectors most affected by the cuts made by the member states, such as the cultural sector, the social economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, research, innovation, energy resources and the fight against climate change. i would like to congratulate the president of the eib, mr werner hoyer, on the results achieved, in particular the maintenance of the 'triple a' rating, and on his contribution to helping europe emerge from the crisis. at a time when the ems are tightening investment, it is essential to improve the eib's relations with the european institutions so that it can continue to support the less developed regions and provide credit to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is essential if we are to emerge from the crisis through economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − the report assesses the activity of the european investment bank (eib) in 2011 and makes a number of proposals on the bank's future orientations. in addition to repeating the tired rhetoric of the balance between austerity and growth and employment (which thus conceals the destruction of existing productive capacity, jobs and public services), the report advocates the subjection of the eib - a bank made up of public funds from the member states - to the competition rules as compared to commercial banking. what could be an instrument of financial solidarity and support for the economic development of the member states to combat the growing inequalities between countries and within each country is thus tied to the neoliberal dogma of non-intervention by public entities in the economy to favour an even greater concentration and centralisation of capital in the large economic and financial groups. in addition, we disagree with the ecb's regulatory control of the eib (with its false independence) and with a policy of the bank subordinated to the maintenance of its aaa credit rating. other negative aspects are to be highlighted, such as its subordination to the europe 2020 strategy, the financing of public-private partnership projects (public investment, private profit) and support for the deepening of the eu internal market.
in writing. − europe needs to take active measures to increase growth, strengthen innovation capacity, create a knowledge-based industry, scale up investment in infrastructure and networks and strengthen social, welfare and environmental policies. europe needs high-profile employment opportunities, a higher employment rate and improved productivity. if we do not take any action, europe will have to face increased competitiveness from our trading partners. the eib's role is thus becoming crucial for the future of the eu in advancing the european union's objectives of growth and jobs. the eu has already taken strong measures to increase discipline and supervision of national debt and budgets. however, the european project, and above all the european citizens, need some measures to support strong and steady economic growth. in view of the high level of austerity in place and the difficulty of finding the funds needed to stimulate growth, it is important that the eib be involved in obtaining these funds.
in writing. − in the current economic period of the european union, there is an urgent need for measures to support strong and assertive economic growth, which is sustainable and focuses on innovation, the knowledge industry and infrastructure. in this context, the eib's role is of paramount importance. the creation of jobs, the enhancement of productivity and competitiveness are fundamental and require investment. greater cooperation between the european commission and the eib opens up the possibility for the eu to subscribe to the capital of the eib. this report highlights key points about the eib's role as a catalyst for the achievement of european objectives. from a financial point of view, it is crucial that the bank increases its capital allocation, manages to mobilise private capital to leverage priority projects and launches the project bonds project. the priorities for action are support for smes, projects in the social, education and cultural fields, and infrastructure, environment and human rights. as regards transparency of operations, i agree with the rapporteur's call for the provision of information on financing, the presentation of a regulatory framework to monitor the eib's activities and appropriate supervision by the ecb. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib) is crucial in boosting economic growth and job creation on the european continent because of its ability to lend capital to companies and institutions wishing to invest in new projects. last year alone, the eib lent more than eur 61 billion to various entities, a figure which was down by eur 11 billion on the previous year due to the severe economic and financial crisis felt in the european union. i support this report and would also like to congratulate the member states on their decision to approve a eur 10 billion capital increase for the eib as early as 2013. i understand that this action will enable the bank to take a more proactive stance in the european economic recovery, and to be able to grant over eur 60 billion of credit for projects in eu countries. i would also stress that this operation is one of the key points in the strategy outlined by brussels to promote growth in the eu.
in writing. the report makes a number of proposals on the bank's future direction. the text repeats the jargon of the need to balance austerity policy with growth and employment, as if the former not only prevents the latter and constitutes a recipe for the destruction of existing productive capacity, employment and public services. it advocates that a bank set up with public funds from the member states should be subject to the 'competition rules' in relation to commercial banking. what could be an instrument of financial solidarity to meet the needs of economic development in the member states and to combat the growing inequalities between them and between social classes is tied to the neoliberal dogma of non-intervention by public entities in the economy, to favour a greater concentration and centralisation of capital in the large economic and financial groups. in addition, we disagree with the ecb's regulatory control of the eib (with its false independence) and with a policy of the bank subordinated to the maintenance of its aaa credit rating. other negative aspects include its subordination to eu2020, the financing of public-private partnership projects (public investment, private profit) and support for the deepening of the eu internal market.
author. - virtually everyone has managed to eradicate polio. the only three countries where it's still endemic are pakistan, afghanistan and nigeria. now, in pakistan, the epidemic continues to spread and the insecurity generated by the groups commonly called the taliban has forced un agencies and other international organizations to suspend polio-related activities throughout the country. pakistani authorities have also halted vaccinations in some of the worst affected regions in pakistan. unfortunately, most of the victims of attacks on medical personnel are women, brave women, not only because they worked in a country where, unfortunately, this can still be fatal to them, but also because they dedicate their lives to children's and public health in their country. just yesterday 24 000 mosques in the country condemned the recent killings by issuing religious decrees in favour of vaccination campaigns and i quote: neither tradition nor islam permits or supports such actions, these women have done nothing wrong, they are martyrs of islam because they have rendered a service to humanity and muslims, there is no reason for the polio immunization campaign to be criticized. these statements demonstrate that religion cannot be an excuse for this kind of criminal attacks. nor can it be excused, but it cannot be minimized, that the cia used as a pretext, as a cover for its actions, a campaign against polio in its efforts to gather the information that led to the execution of osama bin laden. it is a tactic that has had dire consequences, that cannot be whitewashed, that cannot be used as a justification for the taliban attacks. the european union must support, both financially and with human resources, a robust information campaign so that the pakistani authorities...
we all share the diagnosis that austerity policies have the most serious impacts on women, that's simple. what we do not share are the causes and the people responsible for the backward situation in which women are living today in various countries of the european union and especially in the countries involved in the troika. if the majority of this parliament and the european commission have supported foreign intervention in countries, then they have also approved the deregulation of labour laws, that is, they have encouraged parttime work, the weakening of collective bargaining, they have supported cuts in wages and social benefits, dismissals from public office, which they now admit to affect women. the european parliament has adopted the recommendations of the european semester for 2013, but it has also approved the development of flexible working arrangements and the reduction of unemployment benefits and wages, which affect women so much. not because we say so, but because it's what's written there. the majority of the european parliament has approved these recommendations, the same majority regrets the consequences it has itself caused, but women will resist and will be in the fight.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner oettinger, we are coming to the end of a long legislative process, but i believe it will end well. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their involvement and contribution, and i would also like to thank the opinion reports of the other parliamentary committees and the support of the chairman of the itre committee, and especially the support of the commission and the support of the council under the cypriot presidency, as they all contributed to a positive outcome. this regulation implements measures to create a european energy market. it comes at a time when it is no longer feasible for member states to close their energy markets in a logic of self-sufficiency and protectionism. the transformation underway in our energy system requires interdependence at european level as a way of exploiting synergies that create a true european market, allowing the integration of renewables to be accelerated and thus made more sustainable, and generating solidarity and security of supply, avoiding islands and bottlenecks. it is essential to remove physical and interoperability barriers between different countries and to end the geographical isolation or near-isolation of certain european regions in terms of interconnections. this process has been extremely slow and fraught with obstacles. for example, the economic downturn makes infrastructure investment difficult; the positive externalities of infrastructure do not in themselves constitute an incentive for private investment; the construction permit processes have been excessively long, on average 10-12 years. the regulation now agreed proposes a boost to the development of energy infrastructure, a meagre investment of five billion from the mff will leverage some two hundred billion in gas and electricity infrastructure by 2020. a set of geographical corridors and priority areas, smart grids, electricity highways, co2 transportation for infrastructure development have been identified. the selection of projects of common interest shall be made on the basis of criteria in line with the objectives of the european energy policy and shall include a cost-benefit analysis. in the creation of the european energy market, special emphasis is placed on the elimination of the isolation of certain regions. projects of common interest will benefit from simplified and accelerated licensing, including specific spatial planning, allowing for their authorisation within a period of up to four and a half years and subjecting non-compliant member states to infringement procedures by the commission. a mechanism for cross-border cost leasing has been defined based on the benefits of implementing the project with appropriate and risk-proportionate incentives. parliament also proposed a new operational coordination mechanism for the system, which aims to collect and share real-time information on the continuous operation of the network by operators. the central objective will be to ensure security against the possibility of blackouts. the adoption and entry into force of this regulation is therefore urgent. it will promote public and private investment, helping to create the economic growth and jobs that europe so badly needs today.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you agree to this legislative proposal, then we will take the following steps: firstly, we will conclude the work with all the parties involved, entso-e and entsog, the transmission system operators, in the coming weeks to present our draft list, our proposal for projects of common european interest. this pci label has several functions. on the one hand, it is a guarantee that the member states concerned will develop their transfrontier networks in exactly the same way. that means one doesn't plan against or without the other. it is a common priority of two or more neighbouring countries, and the route, timetable and capacity issues are coordinated. the bemip process is certainly an example. we are working very closely with the three baltic countries, finland and poland. we also include existing links kaliningrad and russia . we have a consensus on electricity, but the last open question in the gas sector is where the lng terminal will be built, and, in addition, which transmission lines will be needed for gas. this list will then be checked with you. it is then practically the benchmark for us to determine which projects should be implemented as a matter of priority. secondly, the pci label will certainly also create an even better opportunity to get justice in court. this means that we will not fail in court with planning and approval, but - as they have been defined as priorities by the european institutions and by several member states - the building permit will also be confirmed in court. many pcis do not require public funding. we continue to prioritise the financing of energy infrastructure by the market - through network charges, user fees and pragmatic, good regulation, with a decent return and low risk for the investor. the fact that we have developed these plans on a european basis has also aroused great interest, particularly from long-term investors. what do i mean? life insurance companies, in particular, and insurance companies in general, are ideal partners. an insurance company wants to invest the money of its customers, its partners, in the long term, to have a fixed return and the least possible risk. this is precisely what cross-border investments in gas or electricity transmission lines can do. we have no dispute in the commission on the subject of project bonds, but there have been reservations in the council for a long time. the member states have long refused to give us this instrument of indirect indebtedness. it is only a year ago that we first received approval from the member states, in a trial phase of free resources in the current budget, to issue project bonds to test their merits. we will evaluate this experience and i am sure that the whole commission will then accept project bonds in the energy sector as a financing instrument for the next few years and project bonds will be issued on a larger scale because they are ultimately a very efficient form of financing. direct financing is co-financing, i.e. covering 20, 30, 40, 50 or even 60% of the cost of an infrastructure. then the €5 billion or a little more, depending on the outcome of the discussions in connecting europe would be used up very quickly. in many cases, however, interest rate subsidies or even guarantees that never work are sufficient. that is why we want to present a wide range of instruments. for one infrastructure, a particular instrument, for another infrastructure, a very different instrument will be the most efficient form of investment, and then we expect that the 5 or 6 billion euros in implementation will be good for far more than this budget amount. there was a call about nabucco. so what is the general status of the southern corridor? we are confident that 2018 will be the first year that the shah deniz ii gas field will produce gas. the consortium will decide this year who gets those gas supplies. two candidates are in the short list. it is clear that this amounts to 16, 17, 18 billion cubic metres, of which 6 to 7 billion are destined for the turkish market and 10 or 11 billion for the european union market from 2018 onwards. the network in azerbaijan is clear. georgia is clear. in turkey, they are working with tanap, which is a consortium of socar and the turkish gas network operator, and presumably consortium members like bp or total or statoil from the shah deniz ii consortium will go in as co-shareholders. it is clear how the pipelines from the turkish border to the european union will be connected. one concept is called nabucco west, which means bulgaria, romania, hungary, austria and thus the central european market, the other tap, which means greece, albania, italy. the igas have closed, and now it is up to the shah deniz ii consortium to decide who, in their view, has made the more viable, better offer. we expect that decision to be taken in july or september at the latest. we would accept both decisions: both lead to the european internal gas market, both meet our strategic objective of diversification, and the opening of the southern corridor to azerbaijan to supply not only oil but also gas is of high strategic value, so we are anxiously awaiting the direction of the decision this summer. thank you very much for your comments and suggestions. we look forward to continuing our cooperation with you on energy infrastructure.
the rapporteur. - i would like to telegraph a few points. firstly, the president of the commission wrote to the president of parliament about a year ago asking that this report be voted on at first reading. we complied with that request. secondly, we must take account of our main energy requirement: consumers. we know that prices will rise naturally because of the large investment we have to make. the market certainly finances but it is the final consumer who pays and we cannot forget the good use of these resources. third, there's a lot of research to be done, a lot of research on renewables, a lot of research on integrating renewables into smart grids. fourthly, we have to admit that some redundancy of networks will be essential. security of supply requires it. fifthly, we must link these laws and regulations to energy efficiency. these are not separate matters, they are linked and finally i would also like to thank the commission for accepting parliament's recommendation on network coordination. the coordination of networks was once seen as something nebulous, today it is less nebulous, today it is an essential reality and it is thanks to the openness of the commission that it has accepted parliament's recommendation.
the discussion on transeuropean energy infrastructures cannot be dissociated from the context of liberalisation and privatisation of this strategic sector. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, and the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption, are both of particular relevance to the present debate. the insistence on the miraculous virtues of market openness and competition does not hide the real consequences of this option. experience shows it clearly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. monopoly concentration is advancing on a european scale, and workers' and consumers' rights are being eroded. the constraints on the less developed economies are increasing. the other side of the coin of the fabulous profits of the industry's economic groups - to whom publicly funded infrastructure is handed over on a platter - is the heavy energy bill imposed on businesses and households and the increase in energy poverty, which is affecting more and more households in europe.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i too would like to thank my colleague for her work. it was a very difficult negotiation indeed. mrs tzavela knows that we could not support her proposal, and we do not agree with the commission's proposal. and for very simple reasons. i think this proposal ignores all the priority issues of energy policy in our time. when we have the problem of scarce resources, we abandon binding targets for renewable energy. when we have the central problem in europe of lack of growth and job creation, we abandon energy efficiency, which was fundamental to boosting the economy. when we have the problem of climate change, of sustainable energy, the role of nuclear energy in europe continues to grow, not only to grow, but to grow, even though we are discussing this report two years exactly after the fukushima tragedy. and finally, when we have such severe situations of energy poverty. we are talking about all this, but we are betting on the liberalisation and privatisation of energy, leaving the member states no room to define any action in such strategic sectors as this. and therefore, we cannot support.
mr president, planning is an exercise of freedom. only with freedom can you master the future. having a long-term policy allows us to find our place in the global market of the energy industry and energy efficiency. we must make europe more competitive in this area. all energy policy has a social dimension. it affects our future life. we must ensure fair prices for consumers and find non-discriminatory mechanisms to mitigate the severity of the increases we know are inevitable.
mr president, i would like to stress the importance, also mentioned in this report, of the need to align this long-term strategy with all the regions of europe. the challenges facing energy systems in the most isolated regions, in particular in the outermost islands, where dependence on fuels is exacerbated by distance and geographical isolation, also need to be addressed appropriately. in this connection, i would like to make parliament and the commission aware once again of the need to develop more specific approaches in these cases to find the appropriate answers, not only to solve the particular problems they present but above all to be able to expand the full potential of renewable energies, as in the case of the azores, which are already in full development today, even exceeding the targets set by the union for 2020. however, commissioner, they are still faced with an overly standardised energy policy which does not yet respond adequately to them, and this is something we must also address in this energy road map for 2050.
mr president, we strongly disagree with the market approach taken by the european union in the field of greenhouse gas emissions. the limitations and contradictions of this approach are now clearly visible in the functioning of the carbon market. we therefore reject the idea that measuring and reporting the carbon flow can in any way feed into this market logic underlying the whole approach to the problem of climate change. but we recognize the importance of improving our understanding of carbon flows and the role of soils in these processes. soil is the largest reservoir of organic matter on earth, and this organic matter is essential to its fertility. the preservation of this carbon, as well as the study and monitoring of the mechanisms underlying its fixation and its flows, the anthropogenic impacts, are very important. the efforts to promote an international research and cooperation programme in this field could make an important contribution to filling the knowledge gaps that exist today.
mr president, today marks the 38th anniversary of a major date in portugal's recent history. the project of independent and sovereign progress and development to which the april revolution opened doors required a banking system at the service of the people and the country. this requirement was met on 11 march with the nationalisation of the banking sector. almost four decades later, the banks, although they have been reprivatised, are not only far from fulfilling their social function but have become a veritable drain on the resources of the people and the country. the financial capital raised billions of euros, via the eu/imf programme and speculation on the interest of sovereign debt. money extorted from the pockets of the portuguese workers and people in a process made possible by the treaties and the policies of the european union. it is necessary and possible to stop this robbery. the nationalization of the banks, with public and democratic control of the entire financial system, is an imperative of justice and a necessary step to overcome blockages and put the country back on the path of progress, development and social justice.
mr president, the financing of development cooperation is more than a gesture of solidarity, it is a duty, an imperative of justice. it represents the recognition of the responsibility of the richer countries to correct the asymmetric interdependence which has marked the development of the historical process and which characterizes the dominant economic system on a world scale. it would therefore be intolerable if the next multiannual financial framework were to imply a reduction in the resources available in this field and, in particular, a reduction in the european development fund. we insist, on the contrary, on the need to increase the amount of development aid, to make it more visible, more predictable and to improve democratic control. we also insist that this does not mean that the sectoral policies of the european union must be radically changed, so that they are consistent with the declared but not implemented objectives of development aid.
mr president, commissioner, the establishment of a level playing field for economic and social development in the geographically most remote regions of the union - the outermost regions and the overseas territories - is a merit. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on the decision to establish an overseas association. in this way, the european union is demonstrating the value of the solidarity on which it is based, while also benefiting from the added value of the specific characteristics of these regions. the objectives of this declaration - increasing competitiveness, strengthening resilience, reducing vulnerability and promoting cooperation with other partners - are essential for our territories as well as for the octs. in this context, i would stress the importance of enhancing the brand image of specific products, especially when these economies are harmed by eu agreements with third countries, and also the need to redefine a differentiated european strategy that strengthens the competitiveness of these regions in the areas of tourism, transport, fisheries and agriculture. all these wishes are, however, met with negative discrimination by the european commission in imposing a 150 km limit for crossborder cooperation, which must be changed urgently.
mr president, i thank you and my colleagues díaz de mera and iacolino for the change in the order of the entries, and i would like to begin by reaffirming that racism and xenophobia are a clear violation of the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and the rule of law. that is a violation of the common values on which the european union is founded. the charter of fundamental rights prohibits all forms of discrimination and obliges member states to actively combat hate crime, i.e. crimes motivated by racism, xenophobia, religious or ethnic intolerance, disability, sexual orientation or gender. unfortunately, discrimination, intolerance and hate crimes continue to be felt daily throughout europe. we need a more active fight at european level against racism, intolerance and xenophobia. this requires that policy-makers in the member states demonstrate greater political will to combat widespread prejudice against certain groups and to redress any harm that may have been caused to victims. as such, i hope the council will not waste any more time and finally adopt the equal treatment directive. i hope that we can also start the process of reviewing the 2008 framework decision soon, hoping that this time it will not take the council six years to reach a political agreement. an effective fight against hate crimes requires that we are able to make these crimes more visible and to hold their perpetrators accountable. we must also break down the wall of silence, encouraging victims and witnesses to report such situations, and ensuring that they have the opportunity to obtain redress.
madam president, as the rapporteur on the situation of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy in hungary, i would like to thank all our colleagues. mr verhofstadt has quoted article 7 of the treaty on european union, mr szájer article 4. i would like to quote article 2, which is the first substantive article of the treaties. it says that the union is founded upon democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. not only the member states, but also the union’s institutions, have to respect these values: that means that we too have a direct responsibility to protect these fundamental values of the union. the constitutional amendments do indeed affect some of these fundamental values, from the independence of the judiciary, including the prerogatives of the constitutional court, to freedom of expression. in the context of the report on hungary, we have already produced four working documents, including one co-signed with the epp on the independence of the judiciary. we will also focus, in the upcoming report on hungary, on the fourth amendment, which we will thoroughly assess. meanwhile, we would ask the commission to focus its efforts intensively on the dialogue with hungary on fundamental rights. there is no other issue that merits our attention more than this one.
madam president, very briefly, i promise, and it is a real request for clarification, on what can only be a clerical error or a drafting error. because it says in recital c that, and we are supposed to vote, the credit crisis which is the origin of the current recession was a man-made catastrophe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and to say that the international crisis is the fault of men, if it is not a matter of editorial error, would simply be ridiculous and a disrespect for great women like hillary clinton, dilma rousseff, angela merkel, catherine ashton, and so many others who, in their own right, have risen to prominent places in humanity. and that, madam president, is the question of whether it is a mistake or simply ridiculous.
in writing. - i would like to draw attention to the fact that the outermost regions continue to face an overly standardised energy policy which is not yet adequately responsive to their needs. it is not only important to solve the particular problems they have, but above all to enable them to expand their full potential for renewable energy, and the definition of matters relating to european energy infrastructures must take this into account. the plan for this report should take account of the need to integrate peripheral energy markets. regional groups should be set up to propose and re-evaluate projects of common interest with a view to establishing regional lists of projects of common interest. those regional groups shall ensure close cooperation between member states, national regulatory authorities, project promoters and stakeholders. projects of common interest which have been completed or which no longer fulfil the criteria and requirements laid down in this regulation shall not be included in the following union list. existing projects of common interest to be included in the next union list should be subject to the same selection process for the establishment of regional lists and for the establishment of the union list as the proposed projects.
in writing. − sustainable, safe and affordable energy is one of the major challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to policy-makers, industry and environmentalists. the objectives of the european energy policy clearly set targets to be achieved by 2020. these objectives are: (i) 20% reduction in greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions; (ii) 20% of final energy consumption from renewable energy sources; (iii) 20% increase in energy efficiency. this proposal lays down rules for the timely development and interoperability of the trans-european energy networks in order to achieve the energy policy objectives set out in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is important to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market, to ensure the security of supply of the union and to promote energy efficiency, the development of new and renewable forms of energy, and the combination of energy networks. the new regulation is a positive and important initiative, as it aims to accelerate the establishment of the internal energy market and deliver concrete results for eu energy policy and climate objectives. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'trans-european energy infrastructures', which presents proposals to strengthen the integration of the internal energy market and to respond to the energy isolation of certain geographical areas, in order to ensure the achievement of the objectives set by the union in terms of competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and decarbonisation.
in writing. − green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the development of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence. it is essential that europe should achieve energy independence, which can only be achieved in two ways: (i) greater diversification of sources which is absolutely necessary in gas; and (ii) increased energy produced in the union. to achieve this, it is necessary to continue to focus on renewable energy, with particular emphasis on wind power, whose offshore potential may be under-exploited, and to redefine european policy for the exploitation of nuclear energy, while ensuring high standards of safety and reliability.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr antónio fernando correia de campos, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructures and repealing decision no 1364/2006/ec. the aim of this regulation is to contribute to the creation of a genuine european energy market supplying some 500 million consumers. this requires that member states do not close themselves in on their own interests but instead pool their synergies around a common objective. this regulation will encourage further investment in the improvement of energy transport networks, particularly gas and electricity, thus increasing the safety and quality of the service provided to the european consumer. in addition, the investments made by the jobs generated will contribute to the revival of the european economy. through a partnership between the eu, the ems and industry, an intelligent and integrated pan-european structure can be created, guaranteeing the quality of the service provided and price stability. i voted in favour of this report, which brings a long legislative process to an end, and i hope that it will be implemented quickly, because it is a positive step forward in this area by removing physical and non-operational barriers between member states.
in writing. - this is another step in the definition of the so-called european energy policy, based on the liberalisation of the energy market and the creation of a european energy market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the private sector. the intention is to establish a european network for the transport of energy between member states and for supply with the outside world. funding will be allocated to so-called projects of common interest, limited to projects aimed at europeanisation networks, proposed by energy transmission system operators, which safeguard the common european and international strategic interest. questions, some of them pertinent, concerning the rationality and security of energy supply are invoked in favour of the implementation of a policy option of liberalization which does not safeguard them. this is yet another example of how public funds are channeled into investments that the energy monopolies will enjoy, reaping fabulous profits. member states have to comply with the rules of the european energy market and the guidelines of the european energy policy in order to receive any funding under the mechanism (thus undermining the possibility of public ownership of this strategic sector). we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − significant efforts are needed to modernise and extend european energy infrastructure and to interconnect networks across borders in order to meet the union's key energy policy objectives of competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. this regulation aims at: fully integrating the internal energy market, in particular by ensuring that no member state remains isolated from the european grid; contributing to sustainable development and environmental protection, enabling the union to meet its targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%; increasing energy efficiency by 20% and achieving a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in final energy consumption by 2020, while ensuring security of supply and solidarity between member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that sustainable, secure and affordable energy is needed throughout europe, as provided for in the objectives of european energy policy, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. at the same time, i believe that the implementation of such a policy has been very slow, and that more rapid, more incisive action is needed where a stronger role for europe in coordinating and integrating national efforts is imperative, without jeopardizing its competitiveness vis-à-vis other producers and other markets. i therefore agree that this process can be improved in the four main areas mentioned: the selection process for projects of common interest shall be directed to europeanisation networks; the proposal must provide effective instruments for the use of infrastructure; the proposal should also promote cooperation and coordination between network operators to deliver the expected benefits; and reinforce investments in this sector.
in writing. − the completion of the single market also requires the creation of a true trans-european energy network through a concerted energy policy at european level that supports security of supply, sustainability and the decarbonisation of energy sources, thus achieving the union's 2020 objective. the problems facing the establishment of the energy market are numerous, including obstacles to the development of crossborder infrastructure, too long licensing procedures and lack of investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as i come from an outermost region, i tabled several amendments which were included in the document, not only on the isolation of the island and remote regions from the single market, but above all on the potential these regions can offer in terms of renewable energy. it is all too important that the more remote regions that are more dependent on fossil fuels receive special attention and support in the search for alternatives.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the case of the expansion of vienna airport, which according to the investigation started without an environmental impact assessment, and with 27 organisations opposed to this work. i agree with the aim of harmonizing the clear parameters for the independence of expert studies and advocating the adoption of a general regulation on administrative procedures in the union, which strengthens the position of the complainants. i believe that this should serve as an example of the transparency that should be promoted in all administrative procedures, both in the member states and in the european union as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission should reconsider its approach to the handling of the infringement complaint concerning vienna airport. the commission should follow the ombudsman's recommendations for addressing this issue and take into account the obligation of national authorities to ensure that complainants have access to an appeal procedure and that measures are taken to address a conflict of interest in the application of directive 85/337/eec.
in writing. - article 228 tfeu ensures that citizens can complain to the eu ombudsman about issues concerning possible maladministration by the european institutions. it is on this basis that a group of european citizens have lodged a complaint concerning the process of enlargement and improvement of vienna airport in austria, claiming that an environmental impact assessment has not been carried out. in the absence of such an assessment, the commission agreed with the austrian authorities not to pursue its infringement procedure, provided that austria carried out an ex post eia which best simulated an ex ante environmental impact assessment (eia) and allowed the full environmental impact assessment of the projects. i am pleased to see that this report states that neither the european commission nor the austrian authorities have breached any european rules when carrying out the ex post impact assessment. this case, however, shows that clearer rules are needed in relation to infringement proceedings.
in writing. − vienna airport started a set of infrastructure improvements in 1999 without consulting the public, thus violating directive 85/337/ec which required an environmental impact assessment (eia). this special report by the epo follows a complaint lodged with the commission in 2006 in which the complainants complained about the lack of iac. the commission has carried out an infringement investigation. however, considering that the works were in the final stages, it decided to suspend the procedure provided that austria carried out an ex post met assessment. the citizens complained that the commission had not acted correctly and lodged a complaint with the epo. after examining the case, the epo considered that in the circumstances, the commission's decision to ask austria to carry out an ex post eia was in principle not only appropriate but also reasonable. however, the eip found some errors that should have been avoided. i therefore agree with the epp recommendations that the commission should address the shortcomings identified, in particular by ensuring access to an appeal procedure for complainants and by taking measures to avoid conflicts of interest in the application of directive 85/337/ec.
in writing. − the european ombudsman is responsible for receiving complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of eu institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. it also checks the application of the codes of good administrative behaviour and the charter of fundamental rights. this special report deals with the commission's handling of a complaint lodged in 2006 by 27 citizens' initiatives against what they considered to be the negative consequences of the expansion of vienna airport, in particular at the environmental level, as no environmental impact assessment (eia) had been carried out for the said project, in particular with regard to noise pollution. the ombudsman points out that this report corroborates and highlights that the solution found by the commission was not the most appropriate. the commission considers that the measure in question is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. the opinion, like the report, raises some pertinent questions from the point of view of defending the interests of citizens who complain.
in writing. − the role of the european ombudsman is very important in dealing with complaints from union citizens concerning maladministration in the activities of the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. in this particular case, it is a complaint by austrian citizens against the way the commission handled the infringement procedure against austria, namely by failing to ensure either that the authority issuing permits for works without a mandatory impact assessment was not responsible for carrying out the ex post eia or that the complainant had access to a judicial remedy against that assessment. the european bodies are there to give answers to the citizens of the eu, and here is another good example of that. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the special report of the european ombudsman on the vienna airport case, which concludes that clearer procedures are needed for infringement proceedings, preferably through the adoption of a general regulation on administrative procedures for the eu administration, thus strengthening the position of the complainant. i think this is important, because such a regulation would be an appropriate means of clarifying the obligations of the authorities when communicating with complainants in an infringement procedure, or with bodies representing european citizens, such as the committee on petitions and the ombudsman, for example by introducing an obligation to respond as quickly as possible to the ombudsman's recommendations in order to avoid misinterpretations, such as those which have occurred in this case.
in writing. − the european ombudsman is responsible for receiving complaints from any citizen of the union concerning maladministration in the eu institutions or agencies. the environmental impact study of vienna airport carried out by the austrian authorities, as a result of an agreement with the commission, has two irregularities which the ombudsman considers to be serious, namely: conflict of interest on the part of the body responsible for the expansion of the airport being the same one responsible for the environmental impact study; and lack of access to the procedure for the review of the study by the public. in addition, after the first inquiry carried out by the ombudsman, he found that the commission had not implemented his recommendations. i therefore join the rapporteur in stressing the need to review the environmental impact assessment directive in order to avoid similar situations, especially those relating to the existence of conflicts of interest and the inability of the public concerned to access environmental impact assessments and their compliance with existing european legislation.
in writing. − the european ombudsman is responsible for receiving complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of eu institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. this special report deals with the commission's handling of a complaint lodged in 2006 by 27 citizens' initiatives against what they considered to be the negative consequences of the expansion of vienna airport, in particular at the environmental level, as no environmental impact assessment (eia) had been carried out for the project. the ombudsman considers that this report corroborates and highlights that the solution found by the commission was not the most appropriate. the commission considers that the measure in question is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. we agree with the report's view.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that all sectors contribute to combating climate change, but that, as late as 1997, when the kyoto protocol was signed, there was no scientific capacity to measure and monitor greenhouse gas emissions from land use, soil changes and forest soils. today, with the development and scientific progress achieved, it is possible to measure and monitor emissions in this sector. in this sense, the adoption of these rules, which require monitoring by all member states of soil activities and emissions of greenhouse gases from soil, we can say that the european union's policy package as a world leader in environmental footprint is consolidating its position. if all other sectors have already been identified and measures taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as far as soil is concerned, its change, use, use should not be put aside but considered equally as all other sectors of activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use and forestry activities' because it is necessary that the climate change dimension be included in all union policies and that all sectors contribute to the union's efforts to combat climate change. it is welcome that technical progress now allows us to include emissions accounting more systematically, but also the removal of emissions linked to land use, land reuse and forestry. agriculture and forestry have a huge potential to contribute to climate change mitigation and adaptation. portugal has been a pioneer in this area and it is important that the union continues to support projects that allow farmers to be compensated for the provision of the environmental carbon sequestration service, which will be counted towards the member states in the kyoto protocol. it seems important to me, however, to stress that emissions from natural disturbances are excluded in certain exceptional circumstances, in particular in the case of forest fires.
in writing. − accounting for land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element of energy policy with the potential to, among other things, contribute to mitigation, adaptation, biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of natural resources. lulucf accounting in the european union should be guided by objectives such as: ensuring policy coherence with existing and planned union legislation on future coordination and integration, including but not limited to the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and ensuring that accounting practices and methodologies are in line with the accepted principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy not only in member states but among them as members of the european union. i therefore agree with this proposal, which i consider to follow the european commission's proposal and even strengthen it in several respects.
in writing. − accounting for land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) contributes to mitigation, adaptation, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of natural resources. member states (ms) should explore actions to reduce emissions and maintain or increase removals from the categories of activities covered in this report. these activities should, inter alia, identify trends and explore further integration into other european union (eu) policies. the commission should also provide guidance and technical assistance to member states and have the power to issue recommendations for further action. public participation and transparency, as required under eu law, should also be considered. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the content of the lulucf action plans should be clarified to include recent trends, emission and removal forecasts and measures to integrate the lulucf sectors into other eu policies. in these matters, and in view of the durban convention, i consider it essential that there should be coherence between eu legislation and international regulations. the european union has a key leadership role to play in climate matters and, where harmonisation is preferable or required, it should seek understanding among its member states.
in writing. − this decision establishes accounting rules for anthropogenic greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and removals resulting from land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) activities. these rules are intended to be a first step towards the inclusion of these activities in the eu's commitment to reduce emissions as defined in the kyoto protocol and the united nations framework convention on climate change. it also establishes an obligation for member states to provide information on their lulucf actions to limit or reduce emissions and to maintain or increase removals of carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and methane. member states shall prepare and maintain accounts accurately reflecting all emissions and removals resulting from activities carried out on their territory and falling under the categories of afforestation, reforestation, deforestation, forest management. despite our disagreement in principle on the eu's approach to climate change and in particular to emissions trading, we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting public policy making.
in writing. − agriculture and forestry are a vital part of the response to the challenges of today and tomorrow due to their significant contribution to the bio-based economy. the european union should seek to find ways of reducing emissions whilst at the same time allowing highly productive land use to continue. the only way forward for european farmers, cooperatives and foresters is an approach based on the efficient use of natural resources, focussing on the future challenges of increasing demand for food and renewables. farming and forestry are the only economic sectors that naturally sequester carbon in soils and biomass during the production process. the european agricultural model and sustainable forest management take full advantage of the natural capacity for sequestration and storage. to exploit the full mitigation potential of both sectors, scientific knowledge and monitoring methods need to be improved in order to increase confidence in greenhouse gas emissions inventories linked to forestry and agricultural soils. both their accuracy and consistency need to be improved and it is important to examine mitigation options from a holistic point of view using an integrated approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (ghg) to be of vital importance, since all this monitoring and control will provide member states with more and better information, giving them tools to see if they are on track to meet the objectives set and allowing the creation of different and technically sound policies to combat climate change.
in writing. - land use accounting, land use change and forestry (lulucf) is a key element of energy policy. the commission proposal, as amended by the rapporteur, aims to include lulucf sectors in efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the eu and to ensure complementarity between union policies by establishing robust accounting rules for emissions and removals from lulucf activities. like the rapporteur, i agree with the european commission's position, as i believe that it is necessary to establish sound and comprehensive accounting rules for the lulucf sector and to enable future policy development with a view to the full inclusion of the lulucf sector in the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i believe that the existence of such a legal framework will contribute to the development of a more sustainable and efficient european energy and environmental policy, and in view of this i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this decision establishes accounting rules for anthropogenic greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions and removals from land use activities. these rules are intended to be a first step towards the inclusion of these activities in the eu's commitment to reduce emissions as defined in the kyoto protocol and the united nations framework convention on climate change. it also establishes an obligation for member states to provide information on their lulucf actions to limit or reduce emissions and to maintain or increase removals of carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide and methane. despite our disagreement in principle on the eu's approach to climate change and in particular to emissions trading, we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting public policy making.
in writing. - i approve this report, as it aims to improve the monitoring system for greenhouse gas emissions in order to meet the european union's international commitments and obligations and not to jeopardise future international climate change agreements, not to mention the fact that this is required by the requirements of the climate and energy package. i therefore support this report which supports the development of climate change adaptation and mitigation instruments at european union level. in my view, it is important to monitor the evolution of these commitments with transparent and comparable data on greenhouse gas emissions, to know whether the european union and its member states are on track to meet environmental objectives and to develop new and more robust policies against climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other relevant information on climate change' because, if the european union is to meet the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets it has set not only internally but also internationally, under the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol, reliable, accurate and comparable data are needed, which will enable us to assess the way forward and to develop and implement appropriate climate policies.
in writing. − in order to establish harmonised reporting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions monitoring and other information relevant to climate change policy, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the european commission. it is therefore of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level. the commission, when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council. the objectives of this regulation, namely the establishment of a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and for reporting other relevant information at national and union level in relation to climate change, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states. however, they can be better achieved at union level. i am glad that the ep has stuck to the text drawn up by the commission for this proposal.
in writing. − the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (mmr) replaces the mechanism established under decision no 280/2004/ec. this mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions is essential for reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data to be available in a timely manner. this data is crucial to whether the european union (eu) and its member states (ms) are on track to meet the objectives set and to create new and robust policies to address the challenge of climate change. the improvements set out in this report are intended to assist member states in implementing the climate and energy package; to improve the timeliness, transparency and comparability of data reported; to ensure compliance by the union and its member states with international monitoring and reporting obligations; and to facilitate the establishment of new community instruments to combat climate change.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a mechanism to ensure the timeliness, transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and completeness of the information reported by the eu and its member states to the secretariat of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), by providing for the reporting and verification of information on commitments under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol and decisions taken thereafter and progress made towards meeting those commitments. the mechanism provides for the monitoring of all anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases (ghgs) not controlled by the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer in the member states. also included are reports on carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from shipping, use of revenues generated from the auctioning of emission allowances, and other information. despite our disagreement in principle on the eu's approach to climate change and in particular to emissions trading, we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting public policy making.
in writing. - i agree to improve the monitoring and reporting system to ensure compliance with the obligations and commitments undertaken by the union and the member states under current and future international agreements on climate change, reflecting the obligations arising from the united nations framework convention on climate change, the kyoto protocol and subsequent decisions adopted under these instruments with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and financial and technological support to developing countries.
in writing. − the timely provision of reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data is essential to know whether the european union and the member states are delivering on the targets set and to create concrete and efficient policies to meet the challenge of climate change that is and will be occurring in europe. given the growing importance of addressing the challenge of climate change and taking into account the socioeconomic consequences that it entails for the eu, i support the european commission's proposal as it aims to: assist member states in implementing the climate and energy package; improve the compliance with deadlines, transparency and comparability of reported data; ensure compliance by the union and its member states with international obligations in the field of monitoring and reporting, in particular reporting on support to developing countries; and facilitate the creation of new community instruments to combat climate change. i believe that the proposals put forward will enable the eu to act as a single agile body in combating and implementing concrete measures with regard to climate change.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a mechanism to ensure the timeliness, transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and completeness of the information reported by the eu and its member states to the secretariat of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), by providing for the reporting and verification of information on commitments under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol and decisions taken thereafter and progress made towards meeting those commitments. the mechanism provides for the monitoring of all anthropogenic emissions by sources and removals by sinks of all greenhouse gases (ghgs) not controlled by the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer in the member states. we believe that what is at stake here is the collection and reporting of information useful in supporting the formulation of public policy, which we regard as positive.
in writing. − i support this report, agreeing to the launch of an online dispute resolution platform to support consumers seeking to find an alternative way to resolve a dispute and to achieve access to the courts more easily and more quickly. according to this proposal, this platform is the entry point for consumers facing disputes arising from cross-border online purchases or provision of services. i think this is a considerable benefit for all consumers and i think it is the commission's duty to inform consumers of the existence of this platform.
in writing. − this regulation aims to create a european online dispute resolution platform in the form of a website to act as a single entry point for consumers and traders seeking to resolve a dispute arising from an e-commerce transaction out of court. the platform will aggregate/index the alternative dispute resolution (adr) schemes of the member states that are in compliance with the adr directive. it will be available in all the official languages of the european union and will be free to use, acting as an intermediary between the consumer and the trader, thus facilitating their relationship with the most appropriate adr centre. the platform will thus facilitate dispute resolution by allowing adr entities to handle all procedures electronically and in accordance with a set of common procedural rules, which provide for the appointment of national contact points to act as 'advisers' in their respective member states. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of the creation of a european platform for online dispute resolution which will enable consumers and traders to resolve certain disputes out of court. it is necessary to ensure, in view of cross-border transactions, that this platform functions correctly in any language combination.
in writing. − the commission is proposing the establishment of a european platform for online dispute resolution, which takes the form of an interactive website with a single entry point for consumers and traders who wish to resolve certain disputes out of court, such as disputes arising in the context of the sale of goods or the provision of transnational services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. many of these issues now flood the courts of the member states and are not particularly complex in legal terms or of economic importance and can be resolved by alternative dispute resolution methods which are more effective and less complex. that is why we welcome all initiatives in this direction.
in writing. − the european union (eu) is made up of 500 million consumers, most of whom have access to new information technologies. the global business sector, aware of the potential of the online marketplace, has increased its range of offers, benefiting from being more convenient for buyers and from lower prices. however, this economic potential is under-exploited and can help the economy grow and create jobs if there is an increase in demand. this requires increasing the confidence of cyber users by ensuring greater security in these transactions. according to data provided by the european consumer centre (ecc), fraud on the net is increasing, which corresponds to the increase in sales. the creation of a supranational platform for resolving consumer disputes in a fast and low-cost way is an excellent measure which in the future should cover all online services and not just benefit consumers. i welcome the adoption of this regulation of the european parliament and of the council on online consumer dispute resolution which will help to increase consumer confidence and make dispute resolution much more convenient, faster and cheaper.
in writing. the commission's draft proposal aims to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (odr platform). this mechanism takes the form of an interactive website with a single entry point for consumers and traders seeking to resolve certain disputes out of court, such as disputes arising in the context of the cross-border sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the platform is free to use and can be consulted in all the official eu languages. there are clearly positive aspects to this proposal and an attempt to fill a gap that exists today. it should, however, be assessed together with the draft proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes (the adr directive), even though the burdensome provisions concerning the sovereignty of national courts are not included here.
in writing. the commission's draft proposal aims to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (odr platform). this mechanism takes the form of an interactive website with a single entry point for consumers and traders seeking to resolve certain disputes out of court, such as disputes arising in the context of the cross-border sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the platform is free to use and can be consulted in all the official eu languages. while we are not against the general idea of dispute mechanisms, there are several gaps in this proposal, so we abstained.
in writing. − this proposal aims at the establishment of a european platform for online dispute resolution. this mechanism takes the form of an interactive website with a single entry point for consumers and traders seeking to resolve certain disputes out of court, such as disputes arising in the context of the cross-border sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the platform is free to use and can be consulted in all the official eu languages. this is an important step towards the settlement of minor disputes which often stand in the way of the proper development of the internal market. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i considered that there should be a european online platform for the settlement of disputes arising from transactions within the european single market. this problem-solving modality allows for greater accessibility to all european citizens, regardless of their member state, in business situations where they realise that their rights have not been respected and do not intend to resolve such a situation through the courts. in conclusion, i consider this mechanism to be very important because it defends european citizens by providing easy, quick and efficient access to a platform that will allow for the resolution of disputes.
in writing. − the new online consumer dispute resolution package will allow european consumers to submit their complaints more cheaply, quickly and without red tape. the adoption of this legislative package is one of a number of measures aimed at improving the single european market. an interactive website will be created with a single entry point for consumers and traders who wish to resolve certain disputes out of court. the platform is free to use and can be consulted in all the official eu languages. this dispute settlement mechanism will play a key role for both consumers and traders, as it will apply to all electronic transactions, regardless of where the seller is located. in view of the advantages that such a platform brings to european consumers by protecting their interests, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the commission's draft proposal aims to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (odr platform). this mechanism takes the form of an interactive website with a single entry point for consumers and traders seeking to resolve certain disputes out of court, such as disputes arising in the context of the cross-border sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the proposal should be assessed together with the draft proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes ('the adr directive'). this draft directive aims to promote redress for consumers by ensuring that all their complaints can be submitted to an adr entity (e.g. an arbitrator, conciliator, provider or complaints committee) for an out-of-court resolution. although we do not agree that there is a transfer of powers at the level of commercial dispute settlement to supranational bodies, we think that this mechanism can be of practical use to consumers as long as it does not override national legislation which may even better protect consumers.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing that the obligation to establish quality mechanisms for alternative dispute resolution within all member states of the european union is a concrete way of strengthening consumer rights and ensuring affordable and rapid solutions for redirecting consumer commercial disputes. efficient alternative dispute resolution systems will generate more consumer confidence and thus allow for greater economic growth within the european single market.
in writing. − the alternative dispute resolution (adr) directive aims to address three issues: - gaps in the coverage of adr mechanisms; - insufficient information to consumers and professionals about adr mechanisms; - advantages and differing quality standards of adr entities in the member states. it is intended to provide a simple, fast and low-cost way of resolving disputes involving the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union. this will allow any eu-based consumer to have access to a quality adr entity if they have problems purchasing goods or services from a trader established in an eu member state. adr mechanisms should operate on the basis of the principles of transparency, impartiality, effectiveness, independence, speed and fairness. empowering consumers is key to revitalising the single market and thus fostering growth and job creation. the implementation of adr for consumers is also part of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes in a simple, fast and low-cost way to the resolution of disputes involving the sale of goods or the provision of services in the eu. once implemented, the directive will allow any eu-based consumer to have access to an alternative dispute resolution body for consumer disputes if they have problems purchasing goods or services either domestically or cross-border from a trader established in an eu member state.
in writing. − this proposal on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumer disputes aims to provide a simple, fast and low-cost way to resolve disputes involving the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union. once implemented, this directive allows any consumer resident in the eu to have access to a quality adr entity if they have problems purchasing goods or services either domestically or cross-border from a trader established in an eu member state. many of these issues now flood the courts of the member states and are not particularly complex in legal terms or of economic importance and can be resolved by alternative dispute resolution methods which are more effective and less complex. that is why we welcome all initiatives in this direction.
in writing. − the creation of an area of free movement of persons and goods (schengen area) has led to a significant increase in crossborder mobility, which can be explained by several reasons: tourism (due to the increase in the average standard of living of european citizens and their longevity), professional, academic and cultural. on the move, all citizens make purchases which boost the development of international trade but which could be even greater if there were no consumer distrust of the guarantee of the products purchased. often, the cost of litigation far exceeds the value of the product purchased. the existence of a fast (90-day resolution), efficient and low-cost (with residual costs) system is an important milestone in encouraging cross-border business with clear advantages for both the consumer and the trader. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes, amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2009/22/ec (the adr directive) because i believe that the new regulation will contribute to economic growth and job creation in the european union, while strengthening and consolidating the single market.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumers is a reaction to the conclusion that the internal market is not functioning properly. the proposal lays down measures aimed at improving the functioning of the retail market, particularly with regard to improving the channels of redress for consumers. the proposal is closely linked to the online dispute resolution (odr) proposal. the report goes further than the commission proposal. while the commission proposal refers to the harmonisation of dispute procedures only in cross-border situations, the report includes national disputes. this directive will thus prevail over existing national legislation on this matter. the idea of a rapid procedure for the settlement of crossborder disputes between traders and consumers, which does not preclude the parties from having recourse to any other judicial remedy, is not at all negative (despite some of the concepts underlying it, notably the deepening of the single market). however, it is not acceptable to require national legislation to be governed by this directive when it already provides for such situations.
in writing. − this proposal on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumer disputes aims to provide a simple, fast and low-cost way to resolve disputes involving the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union. once implemented, this directive allows any consumer resident in the eu to have access to a quality adr entity if they have problems purchasing goods or services either domestically or cross-border from a trader established in an eu member state. this directive is another step towards the development of the internal market. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, because i recognise the importance of the existence of a mechanism/entity which would enable the rights of european consumers, irrespective of the member state to which they belong, to be defended in transactions carried out within the limits of the european single market, in which it is envisaged that there are no barriers or internal borders and that the free movement of goods and services is ensured. the importance of this report is underlined by the fact that the internal mechanisms of each member state are proving insufficient to deal with the growing problems associated with the increase in transactions on the european market. this body solves the problem of many citizens who do not have access to an alternative dispute resolution system for consumer disputes in their sector or region.
in writing. − the dispute resolution package will enable european consumers to submit their complaints more cheaply, quickly and without red tape. the adoption of this legislative package is therefore one of a number of measures aimed at improving the single european market. complaints concerning a trader will be submitted to an alternative dispute resolution body instead of the courts. complaints can be against traders in goods and services, whether the purchase was made online, within a country or across borders, and the dispute should be resolved within 90 days. in view of the advantages that such a platform brings to european consumers by protecting their interests, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − on 29 november 2011, the european commission adopted a proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumers. the proposal is a reaction to the view that the internal market is not 'functioning properly' as a consequence of the failure of alternative dispute resolution regimes. the proposal therefore lays down measures with the express objective of improving the functioning of the retail market, particularly with regard to improving the channels of redress for consumers. the proposal is closely linked to the online dispute resolution (odr) proposal. the ep report goes further than the commission proposal. while the commission proposal refers to the harmonisation of dispute procedures only in cross-border situations, the report includes national disputes. this directive will thus prevail over existing national legislation on this matter. the idea of a rapid procedure for the settlement of crossborder disputes between traders and consumers, which does not jeopardise the parties' ability to seek judicial redress, can be a positive one. however, it is not admissible to want to impose that national legislation which already provides for such situations be governed by this directive.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the current 2001 overseas association decision linking the overseas territories and countries and the european union supported the legal framework for promoting the economic and social development of these territories and their economic relations with the european union. i welcome the renewal of this decision with a special focus on the importance of the competitiveness of the overseas territories and countries and the proposed package of measures to help these territories overcome their competitive disadvantages, and on better cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific countries and the outermost regions, with a view to better use of european union funds and financial instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union, because i consider that the renewal of the overseas association decision is essential to promoting the social and economic development of the octs and their economic relations with the eu, in particular by strengthening cooperation in areas such as tourism, agriculture and sustainable transport.
in writing. - i agree with my colleague patrice tirolien when he says that the overseas countries and territories (octs) are a gateway to europe and are therefore called upon to contribute to the role that europe intends to play at international level. situated in the atlantic, indian and pacific oceans, or in the caribbean, they are in direct contact with the new challenges that europe is also facing, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and the risks associated with climate change. the current overseas association decision (oau) of 2001, which links the octs and the european union, sets out the legal framework for promoting the social and economic development of the octs and their economic relations with the eu. this decision shall expire on 31 december 2013. the review of the aar for the period 2014 to 2020 started in 2008. for the octs, but also for the eu, the renewal of the association framework is of paramount importance and must be implemented swiftly.
in writing. - mr patrice tirolien presented a report on the proposal for a council decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories (octs) with the european union. the european union and the octs are bound by the overseas association decision which lays down the conditions for the establishment of economic relations with the eu and lays down the framework for supporting the development of those territories. since 2007, octs have had access to european sectoral programmes, increasing the visibility of the eu in these territories. as this saa expires on 31 december 2013, the process of renewing the association framework was launched in 2008 with the following objectives: to increase the octs' competitiveness; to strengthen their resilience; to reduce their vulnerability and to promote their cooperation with other partners. the establishment of a level playing field in the octs and the outermost regions is highly commendable, as it promotes their specificity and enshrines the genuineness of their products. i voted in favour because the eu must continue to support the development of these countries by ensuring jobs with high social protection and respect for the freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. − a review of the current overseas association decision (oda) is planned for the period 2014-2020. the saa sets out the legal framework for promoting the social and economic development of the overseas countries and territories (octs - islands in the atlantic, antarctic, arctic, caribbean, indian and pacific oceans) and their economic relations with the eu. these islands are not sovereign states but depend on four eu member states: denmark, france, the netherlands and the united kingdom. the association of the octs with the union is the result of the constitutional links between those countries and territories and the four member states. in general, the octs enjoy a wide autonomy in economic, labour market, public health, internal affairs and customs matters. defence and foreign affairs remain, in general, the responsibility of the member states. the octs are not part of the customs territory of the union, being outside the internal market. therefore, union legislation does not apply to them. the association decision aims to strengthen cooperation with the octs, taking account of the economic and social problems they face. the rapporteur makes a number of proposals with which we generally agree. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the overseas countries and territories (octs), as a vehicle for promoting their standards and values and their added value, are a gateway to europe and are called upon to contribute to the role that europe intends to play at international level. situated in the caribbean and the indian, atlantic and pacific oceans, they are in direct contact with the new challenges that europe is also facing, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges and the risks associated with climate change. in this respect, it is necessary to ensure their sustainable development. thanks to their natural advantages and the opportunities for action they provide, the octs can become a key part of the european union's strategies and contribute in an innovative way to international negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i consider that the establishment of a level playing field for economic and social development in the geographically most remote regions of the union - the outermost regions and the overseas territories - is a merit. in this way, the european union is demonstrating the value of the solidarity on which it is based, while also benefiting from the added value of the specific characteristics of these regions. the relationship between the octs and the octs must be evident in a synergy built for the development of joint projects, benefiting from the european development fund, as well as in the octs' access to the oct-eu forum and the octs' entry into the biannual octs forum. all these wishes are, however, met with negative discrimination by the european commission in imposing a 150 km limit on crossborder cooperation, which must be changed urgently.
in writing. − the relationship between the member states and the overseas countries and territories (octs) is an asset for the european union in that these are in more direct contact, given their geographical position, with the union's main economic and trade partners and are therefore key players in the union's strategies as a global actor. the revision of the legal framework for the association of the octs with the eu is essential, as the framework aims not only to increase the competitiveness of the octs, reduce their vulnerability and strengthen their economic resilience. the union is responsible for improving coordination and synergies between cooperation programmes supported by different eu financial instruments. special attention should be given to the role of octs as local eu ambassadors promoting access from the outermost regions (ors) to the octs and vice versa, in order to create local geographical socio-economic synergies. in view of the economic and social potential for both the octs and the eu, and with particular attention to the outermost regions, i voted in favour of the report submitted in the context of the review of the overseas association decision.
in writing. − a review of the current overseas association decision (oa) is planned for the period 2014-2020. the saa sets out the legal framework for promoting the social and economic development of the overseas countries and territories (octs) (islands in the atlantic, antarctic, arctic, caribbean, indian and pacific oceans) and their economic relations with the eu. these islands are not sovereign states but depend on four eu member states: denmark, france, the netherlands and the united kingdom. the association of the octs with the union is the result of the constitutional links between those countries and territories and the four member states. the octs are not part of the customs territory of the union, being outside the internal market. therefore, union legislation does not apply to them. the association decision aims to strengthen cooperation with the octs, taking account of the economic and social problems they face. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the existence of potentially toxic elements resulting from radio-nuclear activities. i therefore support this proposal which aims to change the current legal basis of the tfeu in order to strengthen human protection by differentiating monitoring requirements for natural or man-made sources of radioactivity as well as for exposure of certain groups such as children and young people. this will bring european legislation into line with the current recommendations of the international commission on radiological protection.
in writing. − citizens' access to drinking water is a major concern of policies in the fields of human health and environmental protection. the commission proposal aims to incorporate the requirements for the control of radioactive substances into specific legislation under the euratom treaty in order to maintain the uniformity, consistency and completeness of radiation protection legislation at eu level. to protect public health in europe effectively and consistently, it is necessary to distinguish between what results from natural radioactivity and what results from the normal operation of nuclear installations (artificial and/or man-made radioactivity). it is recommended that the polluter pays principle be followed for the costs of sampling and monitoring in the event of artificial pollution. it is important that citizens are informed about the quality of water intended for human consumption. member states should therefore include in their triennial reports on the quality of water intended for human consumption and on nuclear safety information on radioactive substances present in this type of water. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − contamination of drinking water by radioactive substances can be caused by accidental release of radioactivity or improper disposal practices, and therefore it is essential that there is strict monitoring, particularly of water systems most vulnerable to this type of contamination, to ensure that water remains fit for human consumption. although council directive 98/83/ec of 3 november 1998 on the quality of water intended for human consumption lays down general rules and contains indicator parameters for radioactivity and tritium and corresponding control provisions, it is of concern that the requirements for the control of radioactive substances have not been applied to date. the aim of this proposal is to define harmonised requirements for the protection of the health of the general public with regard to radioactive substances such as radon and tritium in water intended for human consumption. in the event of non-compliance with this directive, it is also essential to provide for a whole range of measures to be taken immediately by the member states in order to restore water quality and reduce the potential danger to public health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption because i consider it essential to ensure that citizens are protected from the long-term effects of any radioactive substances in water. member states should ensure that consumers have access to transparent information on the potential risks of radioactive contamination of drinking water and share good practices to strengthen controls on these substances and on radioactive waste in general.
in writing. − this directive concerns water intended for human consumption. radionuclides in water intended for human consumption are currently treated under directive 98/83/ec (drinking water directive), which sets parametric values for tritium and total indicative dose. the commission should have adopted measures on the frequency and methods of controls in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (planned for 2000). if radionuclides were treated under the euratom treaty, while all other carcinogenic contaminants, such as chemicals, were treated under the treaty, the cumulative consequences of side effects would not be taken into account. i therefore believe that the provisions on radiation protection should be dealt with in the light of the treaty.
in writing. − the quality of water intended for human consumption is currently governed by council directive 98/83/ec, including the regulation on pollutants such as toxic chemicals and radionuclides. access to drinking water is a major concern in the fields of human health and environmental protection. this proposal aims to incorporate the respective requirements not in the said directive but in specific legislation based on the euratom treaty. we must treat radionuclides in the same way as we treat all other carcinogenic pollutants, so that the cumulative consequences of the adverse effects of the different pollutants can be taken into account. having regard to the belet report (p7_ta(2011) 0055 of 15 february 2011, the provisions on radiation protection should be addressed in accordance with the treaty. i therefore agree with the amendment of the legal basis for the relevant provisions relating to environmental protection, namely article 192 (1) of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − water for human consumption requires the observance of stringent criteria that ensure a high level of protection of public health, for which it is essential to maintain public water services and to consider water as a public good. the report addresses two main issues: the legal consistency of the legislation on drinking water, which implies treating radionuclides in the same way as other carcinogenic pollutants, taking into account the cumulative consequences and adverse effects of the different pollutants; the inclusion in the proposal of important distinctions established by the international commission on radiological protection for natural and man-made sources of radioactivity, as well as for the different effects of exposure, in particular by age. the legal basis for the article on the environment and public health in the tfeu is to be amended on the basis of the precautionary principle and preventive action, which seems to us to be correct. the natural impact and human activities are further distinguished according to the recommendations, further changing values that take into account more exposed groups or critical ages of exposure such as infants and pregnant and breastfeeding women, this update representing a reduction in the values existing until then and therefore a higher level of protection of public health.
in writing. − water intake is one of the ways in which harmful substances are incorporated into the human body. the ingestion of radioactive isotopes or radionuclides can cause a number of health problems. in accordance with council directive 96/29/euratom of 13 may 1996 laying down basic safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers arising from ionising radiation, the contribution of practices involving a risk from ionising radiation to the exposure of the general public, taking into account cumulative long-term exposure, should be kept as low as possible. in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health, it is necessary to establish common standards of quality for water intended for human consumption which have an indicative function and to provide for monitoring of compliance with those standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering it to be a matter of paramount importance for human health from the point of view of the regulation of water intended for human consumption. the setting of parametric values, frequencies and methods for the control of radioactive substances (radon, tritium and other radioactive substances) in water intended for human consumption is undoubtedly a step forward in the protection of the health of the general public, which has not been applied so far and could lead to situations of concern from the point of view of human health. implementation of this directive is therefore equally urgent.
in writing. − water systems are extremely vulnerable to radioactive contamination, and it is therefore of vital importance that water intended for human consumption is completely safe from any potential or actual risk of contamination. the commission has therefore put forward a legislative proposal to monitor the levels of radioactivity in water intended for human consumption. i support the rapporteur in her view that the commission proposal, instead of being adopted by a non-legislative procedure, should be adopted by the ordinary legislative procedure, by changing the legal basis underlying it. moreover, the council cannot accept only the metric values of certain metals and extend them to other radioactive substances. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − water for human consumption requires the observance of stringent criteria that ensure a high level of protection of public health, for which it is essential to maintain public water services and to consider water as a public good. the report addresses the issue of legal consistency of legislation on drinking water (advocating that radionuclides should be treated in the same way as other carcinogenic pollutants) and the inclusion of important distinctions established by the international commission on radiological protection for natural and man-made sources of radioactivity, as well as for the different effects of exposure, in particular by age. the legal basis for the article on the environment and public health in the tfeu is to be amended on the basis of the precautionary principle and preventive action, which seems to us to be correct.
madam president, not only did i vote against the two-pack and against this report by mr gauzès, but i think we have bad news here today, sad news for all european citizens. from the stability pact to the budgetary treaty, this was truly the missing nail. the increased supervision of the economy and budgets of the eurozone countries in difficulty is nothing but the promise of endless austerity. the citizens, who are paying for the crisis, are told that if they think they have too much austerity now, they should wait for the next one. i would therefore like the european institutions which have joined this project to explain to the portuguese citizens, the greek citizens, the spanish citizens, the european citizens, what is being planned, because it is once again adjustment by means of wage cuts, it is the destruction of public services, the few that still exist, unfortunately, in europe, and it is an attack on the welfare state. and that's why i could never support this project.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by pointing out that the recent italian elections, or even one of the largest demonstrations ever held in my country in march, have once again shown that european citizens reject austerity policies. if there is more control of budgets at european level, this must necessarily lead to more solidarity within the euro area. as a complement, it is important that the european commission is available to find various solutions, such as debt mutualisation, as well as ensuring the continuity of the euro. the commission is also expected to present a proposal to make taxation conditions in the eu fairer and more equitable.
in writing. − on 20 february 2013, the agreement between the council and the european parliament on the 'two pack' was finalised, following a period of negotiations which began in july 2012. the report sets out measures to strengthen the supervision of euro area countries supported by financial assistance and/or threatened by difficulties or instability, ensuring their legal protection and restoring budgetary normality, avoiding contagion between countries. the level of supervision will depend on the severity of the financial difficulties and the assistance provided to the countries. it is set against the backdrop of the financial and sovereign debt crisis facing the european union today, drawing lessons from it and proposing solutions. it is assumed that preventive action at an early stage is preferable to corrective measures which intervene later in the process and may no longer avoid disastrous effects. i support measures such as the speedier adoption of commission decisions vis-à-vis member states under the enhanced surveillance procedure, the inclusion of the measures of the budgetary treaty in secondary legislation, among others, and i am therefore voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area', as i considered it necessary to reconcile greater budgetary control with greater solidarity in europe. i welcome the european commission's commitment to study the feasibility of issuing common debt bonds of the euro area countries.
in writing. - the second economic governance package was approved today by a large majority in the european parliament, which i am very pleased to see. the package includes two regulations aimed at further strengthening the economic and budgetary monitoring of the euro area. i would stress that this new regulation allows the european commission to carry out a more intensive monitoring of a member state which is facing serious financial and budgetary difficulties and is intended to enable the council to decide whether a member state should request financial assistance. the conditions are thus created to prevent the governments of the member states from indefinitely protecting a request for financial aid, as happened with the socialist government of josé sócrates, which subsequently made the conditions attached to an agreement significantly more burdensome and onerous for that state. another important innovation is that financial aid programmes are now part of european legislation, allowing the process to become more democratic and more respectful of the rule of law in which we live. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès, on the excellent work he has done.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has forced the european union (eu) and its member states (ms) to redouble their efforts to control their deficits and to combat tax fraud and evasion in order to avoid any damage to the financial stability of the euro area. in 2010, the commission, aware of the serious consequences of the instability of the euro, put forward a proposal for the creation of an economic and budgetary surveillance mechanism for member states experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. however, the council considered that its implementation was not timely and delayed its approval, which had dire consequences for the european economy. we all know that the consequences of over-indebtedness in one member state can have repercussions in other member states and even worldwide. as the financial situation of several member states worsened, prompting them to ask for help, it became inevitable to adopt a regulation which, by defining clear procedures, would guarantee the financial stability of the euro area and protect member states. i voted in favour of mr jean-paul gauzès' report because it is urgent to implement a financial stability mechanism which, in line with the community method, will enable the member states to absorb asymmetric shocks and to emerge from the crisis in which they find themselves.
in writing. - this report is part of the so-called two-pack, which is in turn one of the components of the so-called economic governance. it is no coincidence that the president of the european commission called it a silent revolution. the commission is given the power to decide, through a restricted debate, without the participation of national parliaments, without a proper public debate on its scope and necessity, without the information and participation of citizens, to subject a member state to enhanced surveillance when its economic and budgetary situation calls into question the euro and the neo-liberal and federalist dogmas on which it is based. in the case of portugal, given the serious economic situation in which it finds itself and the policies which are being implemented, it means the attempt to perpetuate the neocolonial interference of the troika and the policies against the workers and the people associated with it. the member states are bound by their sovereignty and are obliged to consult the commission when taking measures to eliminate the causes. the eu is not responsible for the measures which destroy productive capacity, for the unemployment created, for the effects of emu in the service of the liberalisation of capital movements which has created the existing macroeconomic imbalances, debts and deficits.
in writing. − with the adoption of this report and that of ms elisa ferreira, parliament completes the package on european governance adopted at the end of 2011. the continuation of this crisis which is affecting the whole of europe requires the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance by the states in order to safeguard the stability of europe and especially of the euro zone. the adoption of these rules will strengthen the eu's power to intervene, allowing it to intervene when necessary and to have the most appropriate means at its disposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, since it sets out measures to strengthen the supervision of european countries which are receiving financial assistance or are threatened by financial difficulties or instability. in order to prevent contagion between countries, it is important, as the report says, to ensure legal protection and the restoration of normalcy in the budgets of the countries concerned. the introduction of flexibility in supervision, adjusted to the severity of financial difficulties and assistance to countries, is a positive factor, as it places each of these aspects within the scope of the respect by each member state, since, in the current context of the financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis facing the european union, the focus on prevention is crucial, which justifies the need to strengthen such supervision.
in writing. the report aims to strengthen the stability and growth pact, which is itself a reinforcement of the six-pack. it therefore calls for increased surveillance in the euro area member states, since the legal basis now adopted is article 136. as we have seen in the course of this crisis, the excessive indebtedness of one member state is putting the overall reputation of the euro area at risk. we therefore need to equip the union with early instruments and/or actions that work in a preventive manner. the report, which largely follows the union's guidelines, calls for stronger supervision in euro-area member states when they are threatened or hit by financial problems. the member state concerned is obliged to take action and to step up the transmission of information to the european commission. the situation may lead to the request for financial assistance and the preparation of a macroeconomic adjustment programme. the decision-making process is also intended to be speeded up by reversed simple majority voting. the integration of the union depends on the effects of economic governance. we can't compete in world chess alone. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the decision which has just been taken in adopting this report is of enormous gravity. the european parliament's majority decided to support the 'strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of the member states' through a restricted debate, without the participation of national parliaments, without the proper public debate on its scope and need, without the people's information and decision-making on a central matter that affects their lives. this report gives the commission the power to 'decide to subject a member state to increased supervision' when its economic and budgetary situation calls into question the euro and the neoliberal and federalist dogmas on which it is based, which in the case of portugal, given the serious economic situation in which it finds itself and the policies being implemented, means the attempt to perpetuate a neocolonial power of the troika, with external interference and policies against the workers and the people associated with it. the eu is not responsible for the measures which destroy productive capacity, for the unemployment created, for the effects of emu in the service of the liberalisation of capital movements which has created the existing macroeconomic imbalances, debts and deficits.
madam president, i voted against this report because it completes a cycle. i cannot in any way be in favour of prior approval and monitoring of national budget plans in the terms in which they are defined or in any other terms in this context of crisis and austerity-oriented economic policies. because this prior visa, which is now being presented and approved in this house, means that countries are being told that they have no choice but to go along with endless austerity, with the policy of austerity. and it is therefore, as has been said here, in an understanding of completing european integration, but a european integration which is only voted for by the financial markets, which has no social cohesion and which does not take into account the peoples who make up europe. so, madam president, i think that with the adoption of these reports one thing is clear: on the brink of the abyss, the european institutions always decide to take a step forward.
in writing. - i approve this report. the eu's making of such provisions must take into account, as the report emphasises, article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which tells us that in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall take into account requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the financial sector, in particular the financial services sector, and to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the financial services sector.
in writing. − on 20 february 2013, the agreement between the council and the european parliament on the 'two pack' was finalised, following a period of negotiations which began in july 2012. this report aims to ensure that member states have sound public finances and that their economic policies do not adversely affect other member states and the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union. to this end, the commission will monitor national budgets more closely. it will draw up guidelines for a harmonised structure of the member states' budget plans and may intervene if they deviate from the sgp. the draft budgets will be submitted to the commission at the same time, in line with the development of the european semester process. the need for sound public finances is emphasised as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth supported by financial stability in order to achieve the union's objectives of sustainable growth and employment. i support this report because it contributes to clearer and more transparent budgetary monitoring and to increased confidence in the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and the correction of the excessive deficit of the euro area member states, as it introduces greater control and transparency in the european commission's powers of intervention over national budgetary processes, ensuring full respect for national practices of social concertation and wage negotiation. it is essential, however, to reconcile public investment, which supports growth and employment, with the objectives of budgetary discipline.
in writing. - the second economic governance package was approved today by a large majority in the european parliament, which i am very pleased to see. the package includes two regulations aimed at further strengthening the economic and budgetary monitoring of the euro area. the purpose of this regulation is to ensure that the european institutions monitor more closely the drawing up of draft national budgets and the definition of the medium- and long-term objectives they set. in particular, if it is felt that the measures to achieve a particular objective may not be the most appropriate, or even the most burdensome, then the european institutions will have the opportunity to invite the member state to review them. another new feature of this regulation is the reinforced monitoring of a member state in an excessive deficit procedure. in this case, the member state will incur additional obligations, including the obligation to submit an intensive assessment of budgetary implementation for that year, both at the level of the general and local budgets, including all measures that may pose financial risks to that state and contribute to the existence of an excessive deficit. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, elisa ferreira, on her work.
in writing. - mrs elisa ferreira presented a report on the proposal of the european parliament (ep) and the council establishing common provisions for the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and for the correction of the excessive deficit of the euro area member states. the economic and financial crisis has forced the european union (eu) and the member states to redouble their efforts to control their deficits and to combat tax fraud and evasion in order to avoid any damage to the financial stability of the euro area. budgetary discipline has been the main concern of the european institutions, namely the commission, the ecb and the imf, neglecting economic growth and employment. it is against this background that these measures to improve the financial situation at eu level arise. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the two measures adopted, which follow on from the proposals for budgetary control and the rescue mechanisms included in the six-pack, will help to catapult economic growth and job creation. i hope that the next summit of heads of state at the end of march will approve the new growth package and the creation of a genuine financial and budgetary union.
in writing. - we reiterate our condemnation of what we consider to be an unacceptable attack on democracy. in addition to interfering in national policy choices and openly confronting the constitutional powers of national parliaments - the power structures closest to the citizens and which they (better) control - this report calls into question the pursuit of policies that are in line with the interests, aspirations and needs of each people. the possibility of applying financial sanctions is advanced when a country is not complying with the dictates imposed by the eurocracy and the powers it serves. other unacceptable provisions include the provision of information by independent bodies on the budgetary situation of each country; the mandatory provision of information to the eu on the issuance of public debt by each member state; the possibility for the commission to request the revision of a budgetary plan when it does not correspond to the priorities defined at eu level. and member states which do not comply and are subject to an excessive deficit procedure will be subject to stricter monitoring. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − with the adoption of this report and that of mr jean paul gauzès, parliament completes the package on european governance adopted at the end of 2011. the continuation of this crisis which is affecting the whole of europe requires the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance by the states in order to safeguard the stability of europe and especially of the euro zone. the adoption of these rules will strengthen the eu's power to intervene, allowing it to intervene when necessary and to have the most appropriate means at its disposal. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as it contains important indications that it seeks to ensure that member states have sound public finances and introduces the precautionary principle so that their economic policies do not adversely affect other member states, thereby safeguarding economic and monetary union. the commission's monitoring of national budgets by structuring the draft budget plans of the member states in an organized manner so that they are in line with the sgp is certainly acceptable and desirable. the reference to strong sustainable growth, supported by financial stability, with a view to achieving the european objectives of combating unemployment and economic growth deserves a positive reassessment.
in writing. − this report is part of the so-called 'two-pack' and aims to strengthen responses to prevent a future sovereign debt crisis. the stability and growth pact (sgp) must therefore be strengthened, as in the report by mr gauzès. in order to monitor and evaluate european budgetary plans and to correct the deficits of the euro-area member states in good time, the commission proposes to harmonise the timetables for drawing up budgets: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. the enhanced surveillance may also be initiated as soon as the excessive deficit warning is issued. in order to make the european dialogue a more transparent process and with effective involvement of parliament, it can now invite members of the council, the commission, member states and other parties. the commission should inform parliament of its economic models and the macroeconomic programmes should be made public. finally, the commission will examine in another document the creation of a redemption fund and so-called eurobonds.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering it extremely useful to create risk capital investment instruments at european level, which can help economic growth in the european union, especially by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, by creating an alternative financing bank. the regulation creates a european brand to help the fund attract money for investment. like my group, i agree that a balance must be struck between the need to ensure alternative ways of raising capital and the need to reduce speculative behaviour.
in writing. − venture capital funds provide finance to companies, generally small, that are in the early stages of development and show strong growth and expansion potential or to established companies that need transformative investments. in addition to capital, the company benefits from the investor's knowledge and skills, business contacts and strategic advice. these investments are very important in the current crisis context because of their impact on economic growth, job creation and capital mobilisation, by encouraging the expansion of innovative companies and promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the conditions for the use of the designation 'european venture capital fund' and for cooperation in the supervision and administration of such funds are hereby established. the aim is to ensure that its activities are reliable and transparent and that all market participants act on an equal footing. the european parliament also wanted to ensure that neither the funds nor their beneficiaries were operating in tax havens and that the money made available was not used for speculation but benefited the real economy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces a set of measures which will help to make venture capital funds more effective in providing finance to companies, especially smes, which are in the early stages of their development and which show a strong potential for growth and expansion. although venture capital funds are subject to monitoring, there is a risk that the funds may be used for improper purposes. this should be borne in mind by the supervisory authorities and requires analysis to ensure the correct and efficient use of these funds.
in writing. − this proposal, presented together with the social entrepreneurship fund, aims to implement efficiently in the european union a financing model for companies which, at a very early stage, have an ambitious business model. the aim is to create the conditions for investors with venture capital funds to do so, in accordance with the participation requirements, for example by allowing them to benefit from a european passport, and thus boost the financing of smes. i reiterate my conviction in the feasibility of this project and hope that it will be decisive, or at least give a major boost, to start-up funding throughout the union and thus contribute to increasing levels of employability.
in writing. the report by philippe lamberts on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on european venture capital funds. economics textbooks teach that when you launch a business, no matter how many market studies you've done, success is not always guaranteed. there's always a margin of risk that every investor takes. in a context of strong economic growth, most entrepreneurs are willing to take that risk, knowing that if one business area does not meet initial expectations, another will compensate for the financial effort made. however, in the current crisis, it is essential to provide extra support for entrepreneurship, especially for those aiming at growth and innovation. i therefore welcome this initiative to create european venture capital funds, as it is a measure to encourage investment, especially in small and mediumsized enterprises, by putting finance at the service of people with the aim of boosting the economy, promoting growth and creating jobs.
in writing. − venture capital funds provide financing to companies, generally very small, which are in the early stages of their development and which show a strong potential for growth and expansion. the initiative is therefore aimed at companies which financial capital holders consider to have growth potential and to generate the desired rate of profit. in the context of the deep crisis which is destroying smes at a dramatic rate, this measure, considered in isolation, will have extremely limited and circumscribed effects. but positive. the continuing closure of smes has economic and social consequences in terms of employment, production and increased social security costs for states. commercial banks continue to refuse to provide credit to smes, despite having access to credit lines from the ecb at extremely low interest rates, and without any state intervention to counteract this situation. monopolies in key sectors such as energy and telecommunications continue to impose unbearable prices on smes. in countries like portugal, a brutal and unbearable tax burden continues to be imposed on many of them. all these problems persist.
in writing. − businesses are finding it increasingly difficult to find banking entities to support their business investments. there are, however, other forms of financing which are more prevalent. these include venture capital funds which provide financing to companies, generally very small, which are in the early stages of their development but which show strong growth and expansion potential. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that such funds can offer companies new solutions to their financing problems, contribute to job creation and capital raising, encourage the creation and expansion of innovative companies, increase their investment in research and development and promote entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness in line with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i consider it essential to set up and subsequently support venture capital funds for european smes, as defined in this report as the 'european venture capital fund'. aspects such as the supervision and administration of resources, in order to ensure the reliability, transparency and fairness of the functioning of the fund, are fundamental to the proper implementation of the fund. another aspect which i consider very positive is the creation of mechanisms to ensure that the beneficiaries of these funds do not operate in tax havens and the introduction of mechanisms to control speculative activity, thus benefiting the real economy by contributing to job creation and capital mobilization, aspects of greater importance in view of the crisis europe is going through.
in writing. − in december 2011, the european commission presented a proposal on european venture capital funds, the main objective of which is to establish a uniform concept of what constitutes a qualifying venture capital fund. i agree with this report because i believe that it is a good thing that uniform rules are introduced on the composition of the portfolio of european venture capital funds, that new investment instruments are created and that the investment objectives that will be eligible for funding are defined. it should be noted that this report also aims to ensure the harmonious marketing of these funds throughout the european union and to facilitate access by small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to new forms of financing, thus enabling economic growth and job creation. in this respect, the european investment bank and the european commission itself should encourage the european investment fund to support european venture capital funds by improving their market conditions and support for the real economy.
in writing. − venture capital funds provide finance to companies, generally very small, which are 'in the early stages of their development and which show a strong potential for growth and expansion'. this initiative is not aimed at established smes but only at those which the financial capital holders consider to have growth potential and to generate the desired rate of profit. this so-called support measure is extremely limited. the continuing closure of smes has economic and social consequences in terms of employment, production and increased social security costs for states. commercial banks continue to refuse to provide credit to smes, despite having access to credit lines from the ecb at extremely low interest rates, and without any state intervention to counteract this situation. monopolies in key sectors such as energy and telecommunications continue to impose unbearable prices on smes. in countries like portugal, a brutal and unbearable tax burden continues to be imposed on many of them. until these problems are solved, any measure of limited scope, such as this one, although apparently positive, will be only a palliative.
in writing. - i support this report because i support the creation of a european investment facility to support economic growth in the european union. in this case, it creates a voluntary brand making it easier for the fund to attract money for investment, just like venture capital funds. i think this is an example of a mechanism that generates alternative sources of investment like others that we must create to overcome the severe depression that we are experiencing in europe, although i am of the opinion that as long as the european union is not solidary within itself, it can never play the role in the world that it is meant to play, and countries that insist on austerity should perhaps think about how this is seriously affecting them.
in writing. - a social investment market has emerged in the european union, predominantly consisting of investment funds geared towards social enterprises where investment is still in its infancy. this regulation is part of the social entrepreneurship initiative presented by the commission in october 2011. the social entrepreneurship funds provide funding to social enterprises that act as drivers of social change and economic growth as they operate, thereby contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. this legislation takes into account the special characteristics of social enterprises whose main objective is to achieve a positive social impact. this regulation lays down uniform requirements for managers of collective investment undertakings wishing to use the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund' (esif) and the conditions for marketing collective investment undertakings under that designation, thereby contributing to the proper functioning of the internal market. it also lays down the rules for cooperation in the supervision of these funds in order to ensure that they operate in a transparent and effective manner. the european parliament considers it essential that the investments of these funds be made clearer and more transparent and that it be easier to invest in social entrepreneurship. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − it is essential to support the market for social enterprises, which play a key role as drivers of social change and economic growth, making a decisive contribution to overcoming the social challenges facing eu societies and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in order to encourage their growth, the effectiveness of the mobilisation of funds by funds targeted at these enterprises, i.e. social entrepreneurship funds, should be improved. despite the high interest of investors in social investment strategies, existing regulatory and market gaps ultimately limit the growth of social entrepreneurship funds. the fragmentation of national rules and the lack of adequacy of those rules to the needs of these funds leads to increased burdens and less effective access of these funds to the capital markets, and i therefore support the creation of a specific legislative framework. it will thus contribute to greater clarity, transparency and effectiveness by creating uniform requirements across the eu, with a level playing field for all players in the social enterprise financing market, and thereby contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces a set of measures which will allow wider access to european funds related to social entrepreneurship. such investment funds, which provide finance to social enterprises, make an important contribution to addressing the social consequences of the financial crisis and can act as drivers of social change and as such make a valuable contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - this proposal, together with the proposal on european venture capital funds, is designed to promote and finance projects of social interest within the framework of the commission's initiative for social enterprises. the aim is to harmonize the means of access to and redistribution of funds for social entrepreneurship by creating a mechanism to link companies with interested investors, the composition of the portfolio of such funds, the investment instruments to be used and the categories of eligible investors. it should be noted that these enterprises, which are usually smes, account for 10% of european enterprises and employ some 11 million people. it is therefore essential not only to harmonise the new rules but also to ensure that investors and enterprises are properly informed. i would like to congratulate my colleague, sophie auconie, on her excellent work in an area which can make a great contribution to the emergence of more smes.
in writing. - mrs sophie auconie reports to us on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european social entrepreneurship funds. social enterprises need sustainable growth based on innovation, and solidarity investment is already very significant in some member states. in the context of the economic crisis we are going through, with millions of people losing their jobs, wages falling sharply, poverty and social exclusion increasing, a measure of this nature is of vital importance to ensure a minimum standard of living for citizens. i welcome the adoption of this regulation and the creation of european venture capital funds, as i believe they are essential for the financial sustainability of companies pursuing social objectives, by supporting and creating links with the most vulnerable people, such as the elderly, the disabled, children and all citizens at risk of social exclusion. this regulation responds to the challenges facing society today: promoting solidarity-based development and diversifying the sources of funding for social enterprises, which are increasingly seeing their traditional sources of funding - such as subsidies - reduce their support.
in writing. − this proposal implies that member states are prevented from taking what they call divergent measures which have an impact on the proper functioning of the eu's internal market. this is another area where the eu overrides the sovereign will of individual countries and their institutions in taking the measures deemed to be most in line with the interests and needs of individual peoples. the framework given to the role of these funds and the financing of what they call social enterprises cannot be dissociated from the dominant neoliberal thinking and practice in the eu, requiring less state and the destruction of their social functions, in the shadow of which business opportunities in the social area flourish. the process of liberalization and privatisation of enterprises and basic public services, subordinating fundamental rights to the logic of profit, is part of this logic. this is not about philanthropy. it is the profit that investors seek from this financing, with all the consequences that this will have on the quality and nature of the goods and services provided. the poorest, least populated and therefore least profitable regions will also be left out. nevertheless, efforts and funding that help to alleviate the human suffering in europe, which is the result of the deep crisis of capitalism, must be supported.
in writing. − in october 2011, the european commission presented a proposal for european social entrepreneurship funds (esfs), which aims to support the social enterprise market by improving the effectiveness of mobilising investment funds targeted at such enterprises. unemployment in the eu, and especially in the euro zone, has been rising steadily, with millions of people out of work in the eu. the measures to tackle this social scourge affecting millions of citizens are thus beneficial: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat this problem. i agree with this report which sets out uniform rules on the nature of esi funds, in particular on the portfolio companies in which esi funds are allowed to invest and which investment instruments to use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, since the economic and financial crisis facing the european union calls for greater investment and dynamism in the economic and social fabric. in this regard, the regulation on the european social entrepreneurship fund is a good tool, as it sets uniform requirements for managers of such funds, defines the conditions for marketing collective investment undertakings under this name and the rules for cooperation in the supervision of such funds with a view to ensuring transparency and effectiveness, which will have a positive impact on the internal market.
in writing. − social enterprises encompass a wide range of entities whose main objective is to achieve social impact rather than generating profit for their owners and shareholders. they may take various legal forms and provide social goods or services to vulnerable or marginalised people. the european commission has been promoting social entrepreneurship as one of the possible solutions to reduce the high unemployment in most european countries and to support the most disadvantaged communities to have better living conditions. the aim is to encourage europeans to start their own businesses and to develop new products and services with higher added value for the population with higher social needs. i am voting in favour of this report which establishes the 'social entrepreneurship initiative building an ecosystem to promote social enterprises at the heart of the economy and social innovation', thus ensuring uniform criteria for identifying social enterprises as eligible portfolio enterprises, defining the support granted to entrepreneurs and improving the social protection and inclusion of specific groups. finally, i believe that social entrepreneurship is fundamental to the general population's access to social protection, health and education systems and that this european commission proposal should therefore be given increased impetus.
in writing. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this is another area where the eu overrides the sovereign will of each country in taking the measures deemed to be most in line with the interests and aspirations of each people. the framework given to the role of these funds and the financing of what they call social enterprises is not alien to the dominant neoliberal thinking in the eu, demanding less state, the destruction of its social functions, the processes of liberalizations and privatizations of enterprises and key public services, leaving workers and peoples subject to the logic of the private sector and its financing of enterprises and projects. contrary to what you might be led to believe, this is not philanthropy. it is profit that investors seek from this financing, with all the consequences this will have on the quality and nature of the goods and services provided. the poorest, least populated and therefore least profitable regions will also be left out. the aim is to impose a logic of social conformation and the denial of fundamental rights. nevertheless, all efforts and funding that reduce human suffering must be supported.
in writing. - i welcome this report as it celebrates women's day in the european parliament and calls on the commission to stop budget cuts, especially in the public sector: in benefits and social systems, education and childcare services. this report also points to stereotypes, gender-based pay gaps, and the lack of work-life balance. i therefore also agree with the intention to promote the use of the european social fund and other union programmes to enable greater social integration through employment.
in writing. − significant progress has been made in the last few decades in the area of equality between men and women. however, disparities still persist. these disparities are reflected in the wage gap women earning 17% less than men , the overrepresentation of women in precarious and part-time jobs due to family responsibilities, and the underrepresentation of women in economic and political decision-making. the context of economic and social crisis we are experiencing exacerbates gender inequality. not only because women are the most affected by unemployment, but because budget cuts in social services, including childcare, represent an additional obstacle to women's participation in the labour market and thus a passport to poverty and exclusion. another priority which unfortunately still makes sense is the fight against violence against children, adolescents and women. i voted in favour of this report which advocates the need to keep women in the labour market through work-life balance policies and the revision of the european directive on equal pay.
in writing. − the enormous economic and financial crisis that has hit the eu, and the imposition of austerity measures in most member states, have had a devastating effect in terms of increasing the unemployment rate in all eu member states and in particular in southern europe. unemployment, wage cuts, budget cuts in public services and social assistance have had particularly severe effects on the most vulnerable people and, above all, on women who, although they were not the first major victims of the crisis, are now increasingly feeling its effects in terms of unemployment, part-time work, precarious, insecure work and lower wages. at the same time, there has been a worsening of the difficulties in reconciling professional and family life, which particularly affects women and their ability to achieve economic autonomy. we cannot allow the effects of the crisis to jeopardise the progress made in promoting equality between men and women. it is essential that member states look closely at their policies and measures currently implemented in response to the economic crisis and ensure that they take into account long-term objectives and do not compromise social protection policies as well as public sector structures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates greater involvement of women in political, economic and financial decision-making processes. we must put an end to the idea that women are meant to work and not to decide. women should not have to choose between being mothers and being in leadership positions. democracy will only be fully realized if it can count on the contribution of both genders, whether in political decision-making or in economic activity. if society is to move towards equal representation, measures are also needed to promote the reconciliation of women's and men's professional, family and personal lives.
in writing. - the principle of equality is, alongside freedom, one of the pillars of democratic states governed by the rule of law. it is because i believe in the importance of this principle that i understand that men and women deserve equal opportunities and must have the same social and labour rights, being allowed to be women, mothers and professionals, without any of these qualities preventing or prejudicing the others. in addition, we know that the economic crisis we are experiencing is particularly hard on certain groups, such as the young, the elderly and, to some extent, women. however, more than policies to eliminate the inequalities caused by the crisis, we must fight for transversal european policies to overcome the crisis, for sustainability, for controlling public deficits and debts and for sustained growth.
in writing. - international women's day was celebrated on 8 march. while every day should be a day of struggle for gender equality, this is a time to talk about fundamental rights and gender equality. the crisis we are experiencing cannot call into question the objectives of achieving a more balanced and socially just europe. however, we find that the poorest, the least qualified and women are the main victims of the budgetary restraint measures adopted by the member states, especially in those who are in a situation of financial assistance. the pay gap between men and women, which is now about 16%, was no longer enough! it is therefore imperative to adopt a directive that reduces this pay gap and includes measures to promote gender equality so that they are not further undermined during the economic recovery. because this situation, which jeopardises the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as regards the percentage of women in work and the reduction of poverty and social exclusion, means that women, at the end of their lives, are living in great financial precariousness, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague elisabeth morin-chartier.
in writing. - this was originally a report full of contradictions. while they rightly take very critical positions on the current economic and social policies (which have resulted from amendments proposed by our group), pointing out that the said austerity has profoundly negative consequences on gender equality and women's rights, they at the same time admit the need for the continuation of these same policies. the vote sought to eliminate some of these contradictions. the most critical references to austerity policies have been removed, leaving behind not just concerns about the situation of women, but a reaffirmation of the policies that are at their origin. the hypocrisy is obvious: the majority of parliament has adopted recommendations, notably under the european semester, which are deeply damaging to women's rights; in portugal, they support the eu-imf programme, which is responsible for a gigantic deterioration in the situation of women. the same majority, however, regrets the consequences of the measures it has itself brought about. without questioning them.
in writing. - it is true that the economic crisis has affected everyone. the woman, for various reasons, is sometimes more affected. although much progress has been made in the area of gender equality, the truth is that in some areas it has not yet been possible to achieve full equality. the economic crisis may have aggravated this situation, and some decisions are needed to minimise this negative impact.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, since it is now well known that the clean-up of member states' budgets has led to both social and economic crises throughout europe. these crises have a particular impact on women, which has worsened since 2009, especially those who develop their professional activity in the service sector, as well as younger and less qualified women, who even before this process, already enjoyed lower average salaries than men. as regards the budgetary austerity policies, i would stress the reduction in the number of civil servants in some member states, sometimes reaching a cut of around 25%, which particularly affects women, who represent on average 70% of these employees, as well as the reduction in family benefits (maternity leave and benefits for single-parent families), which has led to an increase in dependence on others. i therefore support the recommendations in this report for overcoming the crisis, which advocate equality between men and women in the member states' responses to the crisis, such as the focus on social reintegration through occupational integration, using the european social fund as a tool to create better conditions for assisting these families.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis affecting all member states has revealed certain unresolved issues in european society. for this reason, the gender equality dimension is once again emerging as an issue where rising female unemployment and disparities in women's pay and positions tend to have larger, more damaging and more lasting repercussions. the union as a whole presents enormous disparities, with the employment rate of women ranging from a low of 48.6% to a high of 77.2%. this requires not only a european approach to gender equality but above all country-specific and tailor-made responses. while i recognise these facts, i think that this report does not address the problems which i see as central to equality between men and women, namely the reconciliation of the labour market and family life, the flexibility of working hours, equal pay and the revision of tax and pension systems, as well as the focus on lifelong learning and training measures.
in writing. - we agree on many of the issues raised in this report, particularly in the diagnosis made. however, while this report whitewashes those responsible for adopting and implementing these same measures (ec, ep, national governments, etc.), it proposes no other solution than to continue along the same path by referring to the need for 'programming of austerity measures'. this contradiction is insurmountable, since the dismissals, the wage cuts, the withdrawal of social and labour rights inevitably have a negative impact on women's lives. the ep also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which focuses on the cause of gender stereotypes in education, especially in primary and secondary schools whose children are influenced by the perception of other young people and children of how men and women act. furthermore, it points to the negative stereotypes seen in the media and finally the gender stereotypes currently found in the world of work. i am in favour of an awareness campaign, as suggested, to inform employees about the links between wage differentials and parttime work, the risk of lower pensions when women retire and finally the result of the current under-representation of women in political and economic decision-making.
in writing. - more than 15 years after the beijing conference on women's rights, gender stereotypes and inequalities between men and women persist in the european union. these stereotypes are reflected in particular in occupational segregation and a pay gap between men and women of almost 17%. recognition of equality between men and women should be promoted from childhood through the introduction of educational programmes in primary and secondary schools. in this report, which i supported, parliament calls on the commission and the member states to develop policies to combat gender stereotypes in education, the media and advertising, the labour market and economic and political decision-making.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that there is a serious lack of progress in the implementation of the commitments made by the eu in the framework of the beijing platform for action. the laws are progressive, but the mindsets remain backward. it is therefore necessary to continue to work actively on the promotion of gender equality with a view to eliminating all forms of discrimination and stereotypes that still persist in society.
in writing. - i am a strong supporter of the principle of equality, a proud husband and father of two daughters. i try to set an example in my daily life in the fight against all forms of discrimination, especially gender discrimination. but i think that in this report parliament has gone too far and, under the pretext of protecting women, has reduced them to the status of a minor, in many cases to that of a mere sex object and in fact discriminating against them. that would not be the objective, that was the result. this parliament, which, i recall, had simone veil as its first female president, should be setting better examples than this text, full of prejudice, laden with the stereotypes it seeks to combat and which aims to become a judge of conscience and to limit freedom of expression and individual rights. for all these reasons, i cannot vote for it, although the cause of women's rights, respect for women and equal treatment is something i will never abandon.
in writing. - the european commission adopted, relatively a few months ago, a proposal for a directive on gender equality whose implementation is slow to 'pay off' fully. among the areas where legislation is urgent is the need to eliminate stereotypes at the european union (eu) level. in fact, young european women are being educated from an early age according to certain standards which often lead them to behave in ways that are not always the most recommended. many young people who could pursue a career in academia or scientific research abandon their studies and go in search of easy success, undergoing treatments and practices that sometimes lead them to 'dead ends'. eager for easy success, they allow themselves to be manipulated by unscrupulous persons and agencies who "deprive" them of their personality and turn them into mere sex objects. i voted in favour of the report by mrs kartika tamara liotard on the elimination of gender stereotypes in the eu because it is urgent that our children be educated from an early age in the values of treating women and men on equal terms.
in writing. − this report focuses on the causes of gender stereotypes in education, the media, advertising, the labour market and decision-making. gender stereotypes and gender inequality are still common problems in the european union today. the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes based on social beliefs and attitudes affects women and restricts opportunities and choices in the social, economic and political spheres. gender stereotypes also have a negative influence on girls and women throughout their lives, often leading to multiple discrimination and disadvantage in later life. in order to solve the problem and achieve gender equality, the issue of stereotypes needs to be addressed. this report analyses gender stereotypes in the media and education, the labour market and decision-making, and suggests actions to be taken. the report calls on the european commission and the member states to use eu programmes, such as the european social fund, to help increase the participation of women in fields of study and professions where they are underrepresented. we have supported this report, despite some pointed disagreements.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report, not because i do not consider it important to eliminate all kinds of gender stereotypes, but because i think that this document deals with many issues that have little to do with its objective. questions such as quotas should be taken more seriously and not introduced in any way in a report which does not have this as its main objective. in future, more care needs to be taken in the way these controversial issues are dealt with.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, since the economic crisis we are experiencing has affected the employability of men and women differently, and although they were not the first victims of the crisis, they have been severely affected by its worsening. i also believe that european women are victims of a silent crisis, particularly because, in terms of employment, the savings measures adopted in the public services will affect women's employability in the medium and long term. i therefore support the intention to focus on initial and lifelong education and training as a mechanism to facilitate adaptation to the labour market, since the employment outlook shows that 15% of low-skilled jobs are likely to disappear, and it is therefore important to reduce this disadvantage in terms of access to employment rapidly. a second important aspect is the importance of reconciling work and family life, and it is therefore urgent to create mechanisms to improve this aspect, keeping women in the labour market. finally, i consider it essential that the european commission continue to take measures to achieve the objectives of gender equality.
in writing. − as enshrined in article 8 tfeu, one of the objectives of the union is to eliminate inequalities between men and women through its actions. i also agree that all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex should be eliminated and that men and women should be treated equally. however, i disagree with the approach of this report because it contains elements which violate freedom of expression in the media. however, i do not think that the situation we are in today in terms of the gender dimension is the best. there are also cultural, religious and social stereotypes. of course, there are countries where this reality is less visible and there are also huge differences between the rural world and urban areas. so i believe that the best solution to deconstructing this stereotype is through education and training. i do not think that we need to harmonize textbooks or create a discipline, since this subject should be transversal and horizontal across all disciplines. finally, i would like to reiterate that i am against the imposition of positive quotas in professions and political posts, since i am in favour of a society based on merit.
in writing. − this report focuses on the causes of gender stereotypes in education, the media, advertising, the labour market and decision-making. gender stereotypes and gender inequality are still common problems today. the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes based on social beliefs and attitudes negatively affects women and restricts opportunities and choices in the social, economic and political spheres. this report analyses gender stereotypes in the media and education, in the labour market and in decision-making, and makes suggestions for eu action. the report calls on the european commission and the member states to use eu programmes such as the european social fund to help increase the participation of women in fields of study and professions where they are underrepresented and to give strong support to the daphne programme and the rights and citizenship programme as an instrument to combat violence against women and gender stereotypes. in general, we agree with the report's main lines, except for the question of the introduction of compulsory quotas at different levels of political life.
in writing. − i welcome the intention of this report, which is to respond to the commission's communication on ways to enhance the implementation of european environmental legislation in order to improve the state of the environment and reverse negative trends that are taking us away from sustainability. i would stress the importance of improving the methods of collecting information on the state of the environment through more efficient information systems at member state level and at the level of the european union itself. i think that full compliance with the obligation of treaty law is only possible by making compliance with the treaty a criterion for the use of funds in the member states.
in writing. − the ineffective enforcement of eu environmental legislation harms the environment and human health, creates insecurity for industry and obstacles to the single market, as well as more red tape and consequently higher costs. according to european commission figures, the non-application of eu environmental legislation currently costs the eu €50 billion per year in direct health and environmental costs. on the other hand, it is estimated that the full implementation of eu waste legislation alone will save 400 000 jobs and €72 billion a year. in this respect, member states should take all necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should intervene earlier to allow for more appropriate and timely implementation and should examine what is necessary to ensure the correct transposition, application and enforcement of environmental legislation. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − a high level of environmental protection is one of the eu's fundamental objectives and brings direct benefits to citizens. as such, it is unacceptable that there is an unsatisfactory level of implementation of environmental legislation by member states, either because it is late, or insufficient, or excessive. this has led to a multiplication of the number of infringements and complaints in this area, which was the area where the highest number of infringements of community legislation was recorded in 2011 (17%) it has a negative impact on the environment in the eu, but also carries with it very high costs. the current lack of enforcement of the legislation implies an annual expenditure of some eur 50 million in health and direct environmental costs. a more systematic and holistic approach is therefore needed to contribute to the timely and cost-effective enforcement of environmental legislation. we need clear, coherent environmental legislation without gaps or duplication, and we also need greater coordination and complementarity. we also need the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to play its part and to intervene more rapidly to ensure the correct and timely transposition, application and enforcement of environmental legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'making the most of eu environmental measures' because more effective application of the eu environmental acquis will reduce costs for society in the long term and create new investment opportunities. there is a need to strengthen the involvement of citizens, ngos, interest groups and regional and local authorities in the development and implementation of legislation. the commission should also set up an inspection unit to support the competent national bodies in solving problems of transposition or infringement of eu environmental laws.
in writing. − most eu legislation is in the form of directives which set out the general rules and objectives, but give the member states (ms) and regional and local authorities a choice of how and by what means these objectives are to be achieved. the role of ms in this process is crucial to the effectiveness of these directives. the lack of accurate information and knowledge on the state of implementation, as well as quantitative data in various environmental sectors, often impedes the proper implementation of environmental legislation. the annual cost of non-enforcement of eu environmental legislation currently stands at €50 billion per year in health expenditure and direct environmental costs, not including negative environmental impacts in the eu. if nothing is done, this annual expenditure will increase to 90 billion euros per year from 2020. it is therefore important that the eu and the member states in particular take the necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy.
in writing. - this report, amongst some more innocuous paragraphs, puts forward issues which we consider to be timely, such as the need for a better flow of information and increased transparency through more active and frequent exchanges between member states, or the need for clear, coherent and non-duplicative environmental legislation, which avoids the existence of gaps. it also stressed that a high level of environmental protection was an added value for people, in particular in terms of better living conditions, air quality, less noise and better health. in this regard, it recommends improving member states' inspection capacities on the basis of common minimum inspection criteria in order to ensure fair enforcement across the eu and draws member states' attention to the need to ensure that legislation is fit for purpose and reflects the latest scientific research. we supported the report. but we cannot help but note that some of the eu environmental measures referred to in the report, which are based on legitimate concerns for the protection of the environment and human health, end up providing solutions based on the assumptions of the commodification of the environment and natural resources, which we reject.
in writing. − member states should take all necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy. local communities should have an important say in deciding on the best balance between the needs of people and the needs of their environment. only the timely and correct application (transposition) of eu legislation by member states and regional and local authorities can ensure that the desired results of the eu policy in question are achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it provides some guidance on how member states and european citizens can best take advantage of eu environmental measures so that they can maximise the expected positive impacts, in particular on job creation and the waste management economy (estimated to create 400 000 jobs and save eur 72 billion annually). it also called on the member states to take all necessary measures to preserve the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy and involving the local communities in this preservation. it also considers that ineffective enforcement is damaging to the environment and human health and that the unsatisfactory level of enforcement of environmental legislation has resulted in a high number of infringements and complaints in this area. the present report therefore aims, inter alia, to promote the exchange and dissemination of good practice in this field and the creation of an environmental law inspection unit in order to reduce the associated administrative costs and to facilitate the environmental legislation process for the member states.
in writing. − the cost of not implementing european environmental legislation is around €50 billion per year, with the majority of these costs associated with the impact on the health of european citizens. i join the rapporteur in calling for the need to simplify and facilitate administrative procedures relating to the implementation of the legislation, the need to promote transparency and publicity of administrative procedures relating to the environment and the need to ensure easy access to 'environmental justice' for citizens. i recognise that access to environmental justice also involves the role that judges and prosecutors must play actively in the performance of their duties and therefore must have specific training in environmental matters. it should also be noted that the correct application of environmental legislation implies that local and regional authorities have the funds and technical means to monitor it. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − important issues are raised here, such as the need for better information flow and increased transparency through more active and frequent exchanges between member states, or the need for clear, coherent and non-duplicative environmental legislation that avoids gaps. the report also stresses that a high level of environmental protection is an added value for people, in particular in terms of better living conditions, air quality, less noise and better health. in this regard, it recommends improving member states' inspection capacities on the basis of common minimum inspection criteria in order to ensure fair enforcement across the eu and draws member states' attention to the need to ensure that legislation is fit for purpose and reflects the latest scientific research. we voted in favour.
the rapporteur. - madam president, today will be the end of a long and arduous process involving many farmers, environmentalists, citizens in general, technicians, politicians and members of the media. as rapporteur for direct payments and rural development, i should like to thank everyone for the contributions they have made to make it possible, over the course of almost two years of work, to present a proposal which is a good starting point for the european parliament's negotiating mandate. i cannot fail to mention president paolo de castro, our fellow shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for opinions of other committees, commissioners cioloş and potočnik and the various presidencies - the polish, the danish, the cypriot and the irish - with whom we have worked. i should also like to thank and commend the secretariat of the committee on agriculture, the secretariats of the political groups and the members of my own staff for their professionalism. it was very demanding and very complex work. in the case of my reports, it was a matter of negotiating some 4 500 amendments and including some 3 000 of them in 75 commitments, all of which were approved in the committee on agriculture. i therefore call for these commitments to be ratified and i highlight certain aspects which i consider to be fundamental and unavoidable for a greener, fairer cap and therefore closer to farmers and european citizens. we must support measures which unambiguously guarantee a greener cap, and i am referring in particular to maintaining greening in the first pillar, and to this end the reservation of a mandatory allocation of 30% of direct payments. for this greening we have confirmed the common measures: the diversification of crops, the maintenance of permanent meadows, the creation of ecological interest areas. we have introduced aspects of the european framework which make it possible to reduce the bureaucracy involved in implementing these measures, without prejudice to environmental objectives and to the benefit of farmers and national administrations in terms of reducing costs. i would also stress the obligation to set aside 25% of each member state's rural development budget for organic farming and agri-environmental measures. i welcome the consensus reached on the definition of an active farmer and the exclusion from receiving aid of areas not used for agriculture, such as golf courses and airports, which will no longer benefit from agricultural support. we have also introduced greater harmonisation in the rate of convergence of support between member states and between farmers. the commission has also proposed that the maximum amount of aid should be increased to eur 300 000 for the first 50 hectares. these two measures discriminate positively in employment. the dynamism of rural areas must be promoted and the rejuvenation of generations must be promoted urgently. so we have introduced new incentives for young people and new farmers, for local supply chains and for diversification of activity in rural areas. i therefore call for a vote on all these proposals. let me also use this last minute to speak as coordinator of the s&d group. i should like to say that my group will vote in favour of all the commitments it has made in all the reports under discussion here: direct payments, the single cap, rural development and horizontal regulation. however, we have tabled amendments on four fundamental issues, on which, unfortunately, it was not possible to reach a compromise and which were approved by comagri without the support of my group. these are, first of all, the rules on the transparency of aid recipients. my group considers it unacceptable that the european citizens cannot be given information on the use of public money. we therefore propose that the beneficiaries of the cap be made public annually. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in other words, it is only acceptable - i will finish right away, madam president - that a farmer receives less than the hectares he has under certain agricultural practices. finally, we cannot accept that the cap regresses by a decade in environmental practices by virtually eliminating cross-compliance. it is therefore necessary to correct these negative aspects if we are to have a fairer, greener and more equitable cap in the future.
mr president, the proposals for reform of the cap which we have discussed here insist on a market-oriented and competitive model which devalues and compromises food sovereignty and food security and the sustainability of agricultural production, and will not solve problems but create others. i would therefore like to draw your attention to some of the alternative proposals we have put forward: the introduction of quota schemes tailored to the needs of each country and its relative level of production capacity, allowing differentiated development of the countries with the highest deficits; convergence of direct payments between member states by 2020 at the latest; modulation and capping of direct aid, limiting aid to the largest beneficiaries and redistributing it, benefiting in relative terms small and medium-sized producers and sustainable production; the establishment of a national preference scheme; the introduction of a maximum intermediation margins scheme, in order to promote a fair and adequate distribution of added value along the food supply chain; the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by the european union budget.
mr president, commissioner, there is one aspect which is raising serious concerns in the european camp. there is a deep sense that we are making a serious mistake by not opposing what is now obvious - the decision to end the milk quota system as early as march 2015. the commission's studies, which are now under way, will be presented in may and we are convinced that they will prove that, ladies and gentlemen, if we do nothing now, we will have missed the opportunity to take part in correcting this error by then. that is why it is time to bring this crucial issue to the table for the whole of the negotiating team, so that we can have a say in the outcome that may condemn many of our countries and regions. that is why we must vote tomorrow in favour of the proposals which keep open the continuation of the milk quota system. if we do not vote now, then, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be unable to do anything.
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. the milk quota system allows for something that is essential in the market for perishable goods, which is the balance between supply and demand. any surplus situation on the perishables market does not create efficiency in the market, but on the contrary, it creates very serious problems for the countries suffering from these surpluses and for the neighbouring countries suffering from the spillover of these surpluses onto their markets. and this is not market efficiency, this is more problems for farmers, more european subsidies and more problems for the milk queue.
mr president, mr commissioner, a lot of time has been spent and a lot of work has been done, particularly by the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, whose commitment and dedication to this reform has been remarkable. everyone got something for their member states and no one got everything. the important thing is that the common agricultural policy remains true to its raison d'être: to ensure food in quantity, quality and diversity, guaranteeing food security for all europeans; to learn from past mistakes, becoming environmentally sustainable, adapting production to markets, guaranteeing a fair income to the producer and boosting all rural life; and to prepare for the challenges of the future by becoming more equitable, simple, transparent and competitive. finally, a word on milk quotas. we'll extend the sugar quotas and the vineyard plantation rights. we have information from a study which points to the sustainability of the milk sector in only two member states after the end of quotas. i ask everyone: let us not give up quotas until we have an effective and efficient alternative for the dairy sector in europe.
the rapporteur. - this debate confirmed what was a long negotiation we had been holding for many months. some of our differences have been exposed here, but in particular the enormous convergence we have on the need for a strong cap in the future, which reconciles competitiveness with sustainability, which contributes to solving the problems of our time, and of course climate change, and which ensures the economic and social vitality of rural areas. i am very pleased to note what the commissioner has just said and his continuing commitment to continue a fruitful dialogue, as has been the case so far. and i was also very pleased to note the speeches of some members who responded positively to those which are the main concerns of the socialist group, namely that we must come out of this parliament with a very strong mandate to strengthen our negotiating position. and this implies not only that we confirm all the commitments that have been made but also how we can go a little further on the more controversial issues which are the question of double funding, which parliament cannot accept, the question of transparency on which we have to be very firm and uncompromising and the question of the reintroduction of cross-compliance to further strengthen the environmental component of this reform. i therefore expect a very meaningful vote tomorrow in this plenary and i am sure that the european parliament will be up to the new challenges, the new responsibilities that have been conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon and that we will make history with this reform in europe.
we are being asked to discuss the 2014 budget today, which is almost the same as decorating the entrance hall of a house that has not yet been licensed because no one has yet agreed on the project, which is, of course, the multiannual financial framework. still, you can predict some things because the recipe is the same. the budget that is predicted for 2014 will not only rest on the same outdated structure of headings but, above all, will be the child of a multiannual framework whose political priorities are eternal austerity. by cutting cohesion policies, support for the most deprived, social support, the globalisation adjustment fund and so on, we are increasing divergence within europe and responding to austerity with more austerity. this parliament approved the so-called two-pack this morning. it's not packages like these we need. instead of the pre-approval of national budgets and monitoring of deficit control processes, we need solidarity measures and a budget that will generate investment and employment and reduce the obscene poverty that this european construction has created.
the deception of those who said that support for perpetual austerity, institutionalized in the budgetary treaty, would be exchanged for a strengthening of the european union budget, is now clear. the enormous achievement of those who said that the intolerable attack on democracy and the sovereignty of the peoples which is this treaty, which is economic governance and the european semester, would be counterbalanced by a budgetary increase for the sake of growth and employment. the budget which has never guaranteed economic and social cohesion, which has never ensured the redistributive function which was required in the face of capitalist integration of an asymmetrical nature, generating inequalities and imbalances, this budget, which was already a needy budget, will now be reduced. the consequences: see the case of portugal. in the next seven years, the eu's transfers will be less than what the country will pay in interest and commission alone under the so-called memorandum of understanding with the troika, but in the last five years, the balance of eu transfers to the country has already been exceeded by capital outflows in the form of interest, profits and dividends. this is the result: a country that becomes poorer as integration deepens.
blue-card question. – ms guillaume, i have to ask you, do you think that you can change the whole distribution of seats in the european parliament without changing the council? there is a balance between institutions, and what you want is really to unbalance this proportionate relationship between the council and parliament. if you accept in the council the federal rule – one vote, one state – we will accept here the rule of strict proportionality, and then you will have demography here. but you cannot have demography in the council and demography in parliament. if you have states in the council, you also have to have states in parliament.
the committee on constitutional affairs has wisely decided to limit itself to proposing a reasonable solution to find the necessary seats for croatia in the next european elections, minimising the impact on the current territorial representation of the parliament. i would obviously prefer that my country did not lose a member, but i recognise that this is a balanced solution based on an objective criterion. in the next accessions of other countries, other member states will provide the necessary vacancies. the committee on constitutional affairs also firmly rejected the opportunist attempt to use the occasion to reformulate the overall territorial distribution of members of the european parliament in favour of the large countries, against the spirit of degressive proportionality which, contrary to what some say, is not the same as strict proportionality. and the committee on constitutional affairs went further: the commission has made it clear that any future revision of the composition of parliament will also have to involve the voting system in the council. the representation of citizens in parliament cannot be separated from the representation of the member states in the council. those who want to revolutionize the composition of parliament should bear this message in mind.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that i think this gualtieri/trzaskowski report is quite balanced. and it is the result of europeanism, of many of the middle countries which have accepted, for a significant part of them, to lose a member in the name of a solution which is a reasonable solution. so congratulations to the rapporteurs and congratulations to the members of these countries who have accepted and built this consensus. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to a very important point. it is that, contrary to what our colleague regner has just said, or what mr karas has said, the initial report was not a correct report. it was wrong. and that mistake is that, in the relationship between sweden and austria, it benefited austria. the loser, according to the report's criteria, was austria, and the loser was sweden. why is this important for a country like portugal, which has nothing to do with these? this is important because objective criteria must be followed behind the report, and the only way to follow them was to make this correction. it is good that the committee on constitutional affairs has done so, because it allows all the average countries, belgium, the czech republic, latvia, ireland and so many others who lose a member, to defend in fact before their electorate the rationality and coherence of this function. finally, i would like to draw attention to a key point, which is the idea that it is not possible to do justice here without dealing with the question of the council and without dealing with the question of the council and parliament as a whole. and so i listen very much to what mr brok has to say, but we must explain this to our german colleagues as well. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the fact is that in germany the state of bremen or saarland has 3 votes in the upper house, and north rhine, which has 17 million, has no million, is 17 times larger, or bavaria has 6 votes. if the medium and small countries have half the votes of the large countries in the council, we can live with strict proportionality in parliament. now, until that happens, there must be a balance between the two institutions. and this is why this report should deal only with the question of croatia and not with the general constitutional problem of representation in the european union.
the logic behind this proposal for the composition of the european parliament is, of course, that of federalism. the vision expressed here is not that of free and sovereign states with equal rights, regardless of their size, but that of a union led by a directorate of large countries, which concentrates power and imposes itself on the others. with this proposal, once again, the small and medium sized are punished, the big ones are spared. the consequence of these successive and cumulative reductions in the number of members from countries such as portugal is obviously to reduce the plurality of representation even further and to further distance the expression of the popular will in these countries from the final composition of the european parliament. that may be the intention: to launch another attack on democracy. it didn't have to be this way, and it doesn't have to be this way. the proposals we have put forward show that there were other ways and other options which would have allowed us to safeguard the number of members from the medium and small countries.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs westlund, on her good work. science has shown that chemicals that act as endocrine disruptors interfere with the functioning of the female reproductive system. they alter hormone levels, the menstrual cycle, as well as female fertility, favoring the development of uterine diseases, breast cancer, and miscarriages, and affecting lactation. it is essential that, in accordance with the precautionary principle, account be taken of the potential risks of endocrine disruptors to health in general and to women's reproductive health in particular. therefore, priority should be given to funding research on the effects of endocrine disruptors on women's health, which allows for an objective data-based assessment of the multi-generational effects of long-term exposure to endocrine disruptors.
mr president, in portugal the disabled represent about 1 million people. the national organisations of disabled people have recently analysed the consequences of the measures imposed by the european union, the imf and the national parties which have approved the mou. they concluded that there is more poverty and social exclusion, which particularly affects people with disabilities, that there is more and more lack of access to health care due to the more than 100% increase in the cost of moderating rates in the national health service, that there is more and more lack of access to medicines and treatment due to their high cost, that it is increasingly evident that it is totally impossible for people with disabilities to integrate into the labour market due to the increase in unemployment, and that there are more and more situations of undernutrition hunger due to lack of economic capacity. this means nothing but that the european commission's measures, which are supported by the majority groups in this parliament, are in total disregard of the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this europe is definitely the europe of good intentions that are put on paper and that are translated into the reality of people's lives, into indignity and inhumanity.
blue-card question addressed to mr callanan. – mr callanan, as you said, austerity cannot be avoided. pray tell us: we know that austerity can work in a boom – it has worked before – but austerity in a recession? we now have an experiment lasting for six years in several countries. pray tell us an example of austerity during this recession leading to growth. you do not have one, because there are none. we are in a hole, and if one digs in a hole, one does not go up. that is not the way it works.
mr president, i believe that the european parliament has a historic opportunity today to reject the agreement reached by the council on 8 february on the multiannual financial framework, in which the governments have clearly shown that they have given up on europe. i sincerely hope that members will respond to this democratic and solidarity-based need by rejecting this agreement. mr president, you said that unemployment had reached unbearable levels. we're completely in agreement. but the problem, mr. president, is that you're not an innocent in this horror movie either. the adjustment processes under way in europe have had their effect, yes, but their effect has been to increase unemployment, to increase precariousness, to contribute to the loss of human dignity and to obscene poverty. i have not heard a word of criticism from you in relation to the council's conclusions. how can a european budget play a redistributive role when such fundamental cuts are proposed as in cohesion policies? and where do the young people stand in the middle of all this? it is not the guarantee fund that will allow these countercyclical policies to be developed. i think that this framework, as it stands, only plunges us into eternal austerity, and i hope that today's vote will show that this parliament does not accept those conclusions.
mr president, the next european council is indeed special. the spring council which starts tomorrow will be responsible for defining the strategic lines for growth and jobs in the european union in 2013, including an analysis of imbalances within the union. it is not a theoretical analysis, because it informs directly the stability or convergence programmes, the national reform programmes of the individual countries. and here begins the process of european control over the national level, which has just been strengthened by the two-pack, until the national budgets are controlled. but more european power means more responsibility. so what is the commission's assessment, mr president of the commission, what is the commission's and the council's assessment of the recommendations that they have imposed on the countries? what is the quality of the economic forecasts that justify them? in the spring of 2011, the commission estimated that in 2012, the year ended, growth in greece would be 1,1. it was a -6.9. in italy it is +1.3. it was a -2.2. in spain, it's +1.5. it was -1.4. and wealth in the eurozone has shrunk by 0.6 percent and will continue to shrink. will the commission continue to insist that it does not need to revise its econometric models, that its economic policy recommendations do not need to be changed? the more depressed an economy is, the more negative the impacts of austerity policies are, and that's why in the periphery unemployment is exploding. at the end of this crisis, we have imbalances within the eurozone of a dimension never seen before. can the euro zone survive when the average unemployment rate in greece or spain is five times that of germany, the netherlands or austria? can europe survive with youth unemployment rates of 7% in the central countries and 40% in the periphery? is the commission and the council aware that longterm unemployment, the reluctance of many to seek work, the mass emigration of the most qualified young people from the periphery to the centre - these are the real obstacles to structural convergence of competitiveness within the eurozone and, in particular, within the european dimension of europe? it is these imbalances that have created the problems of excessive debt, not a specific dna of certain countries. my message is very clear and i'll finish, mr. president... make this european council a council for effective policy change, or it will be too late. and there is no forgiveness if we pretend not to see the signs they send us every day.
mr president, the troika is in portugal finalising the seventh review of the bailout programme, faced with the grotesque failure of all the grotesque forecasts - yours and the portuguese government's - despite everyone anticipating and warning that they were grotesquely unrealistic. and you can only react with small adjustments: one more year to meet the goals, a few more years of extension of maturities... it reflects the soft talk and self-defeating policies of the european union, with a subservient and fearful commission clinging to mrs merkel's trousers and calendar. portugal, mr president, does not need small adjustments to the adjustment to cover up the colossal mistakes of the troika and the european union. portugal needs a complete overhaul of the austerity policies that the commission has doggedly implemented as the multiannual financial framework shows, which do not serve european solidarity and do not bring europe out of the crisis. and that is why parliament must change it. portugal needs the european council to wake up, to undo the social and political catastrophe that its austerity policy has created in europe and to get on with the job before greater tragedies befall our continent.
in writing. on 14 and 15 march, the european council will meet again, bringing together the heads of state or government of the 27 member states of the european union. at a time when economic growth is going to be close to zero this year and unemployment rates are very high, i think it is essential that measures be taken to solve the european problem in the short term. i would also like to take this opportunity to urge the member states to make rapid progress in building economic union, and this should not be done too slowly and too long. it is therefore necessary to develop a new roadmap linking the 27 member states in order to deepen our integration and to ensure new mechanisms to protect countries in the greatest budgetary difficulties. finally, i believe it is important to strengthen solidarity between member states and to make europe more competitive and sustainable in the global economy.
mr president, when i received the voting list for this report, i noticed that three of my amendments - amendments nos 4, 5 and 6 - were considered inadmissible by the president. i have received no explanation from the president or the services for this, which i regret. i consider that an arbitrary and unjustified decision. when i asked the services why they had taken this decision, they gave me an unfounded answer. i regret that and would like to protest here against what i consider to be a violation of the right of any member to table amendments to reports and resolutions. the question is, what were they afraid of? why can we not vote on these amendments, which foresee that no small or mediumsized country will lose its members, and what will happen to this proposal?
mr president, dear high representative, not so long ago, a document approved in this house, as well as another document signed by you entitled a new strategy for a changing neighbourhood, outlined the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean. we all said then - parliament, commission, council - that the implementation of the new neighbourhood policy was based on mutual accountability and a common commitment to the universal values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, the market economy and sustainable and inclusive development. the basic principle for this new policy was more for more, remember? it was then said that this support would be all the greater the more rapid and effective the progress made in the internal reforms of each country. now, the revolution in egypt was made in the name of human dignity, of freedom, and the egyptian people feel that this is not yet the case. so that there would be a future of hope and a future of hope for each and every citizen. and it is this lack of hope that continues to feed a people who bravely take to the streets daily to demonstrate their disillusionment. so that different communities can coexist peacefully, so that the rights of minorities are respected. i ask you: are we not doing more for less with the recent 5 billion euros made available? by the way, what is this money for and to whom? what about the unambiguous support for civil society, i.e. the so-called partnership of societies in the commission document, or the bottom-up approach in the parliament document?
slow and hesitant steps are normal in any transition to democracy but egypt seems to be going backwards democratically with many, many of those who risked their lives in tahrir square still having to risk them, courageously, to not let the revolution be derailed. the constitutional process, instead of bringing political forces together on the necessary reforms, has created a climate of tension, violence and sectarianism that is not conducive to the holding of transparent elections in 2013. the european union must send a clear and coherent message to president morsi and other leaders of the egyptian people that building democracy implies the participation of all political forces in the major decisions for the transition. it is concerned about the obstruction of women's political participation and the constant harassment and violence to which they have been subjected by the authorities, sectarian tensions against the coptic religious minority, the systematic use of torture, the threat of the death penalty, the lack of law and order in sinai where migrants are barbarically exploited, detained, tortured and killed without the authorities doing anything. it is important that the european union should provide financial support to egypt at a time when its citizens are facing rapidly deteriorating economic conditions, but the 5 billion is worthless and will even be counterproductive if it is not linked to an assumed conditionality in the framework of a policy of more for more. we must be clear that we will not tolerate the human rights violations and sectarianism that are actually undermining the revolutionary process in egypt.
on behalf of the s&d group. the threats of pre-emptive nuclear attack by the north korean regime are unacceptable provocations not only against neighbours south korea and japan and against the united states but actually against global security. we demand that north korea abide by the security council resolutions, the non-proliferation treaty, the 53rd armistice agreement, the bilateral non-aggression pact with neighboring south korea and we say that the declaration of a breakdown of the ceasefire by north korea endangers its own security by further isolating it. the north korean economy, centred on military power and the nuclear arms race, determines the extreme poverty in which the self-sacrificing north korean people live, weakened also by oppression, the systematic violation of human rights, the regime's lying propaganda. the north korean leadership may be feudal, oppressive or lunatic, but it really lives in this world and only persists on this dangerously provocative course because it has the warm backs, because it relies on the economic, commercial and political support of neighboring china. china, as a permanent member of the un security council, has special obligations to ensure world peace and security, starting at home and with its unbalanced neighbour on the side. china cannot allow sanctions against pyongyang to be approved by the un security council and then turn a blind eye to its violations of the common borders. this encourages the irresponsibility of the north korean regime. no one like china can help bring pionguiangue to her senses. it is crucial that north korea resume negotiations in the framework of the six-party talks in order to find ways to a korean peninsula free of nuclear weapons and able to ensure basic rights and quality of life for north and south koreans. while continuing to promote and enforce the international sanctions against pyongyang, the european union must maintain and, if possible, intensify dialogue and contact with the north korean regime, if possible extending it to the existing civil society in north korea, but it is above all on china that our pressure must be firmly applied.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i apologise that i have to leave, but of course i did not anticipate the terrible events of earlier today. i would otherwise have been with you for a longer period of time but, as you know, i have to go to pristina this evening for the talks. i wanted to answer on three or four key points that have been made. the first is that already you can hear the debate that i have seen in so many places in this house about how to effectively support the end of violence. honourable members here have talked about whether or not to engage in the supply of weapons in exactly the same conversations that, in my experience, have been happening in forums all over the world. the first and most important issue that you wanted to discuss this evening was about how to get the humanitarian aid out. i accept that this has been incredibly difficult to do. honourable members know how important it is to try to work as effectively as possible with the agencies and the ngos. if commissioner kristalina georgieva had been here she would have again talked about the importance of ensuring that we keep humanitarian workers safe and humanitarian aid flowing as efficiently as possible. but it is because we know that it needs to be more effective that we have been working hard with the coalition to look at how we can work through their committee to get aid into different areas in syria that we have not been reaching as effectively as we might have done. my final point concerns the countries of the region and those who have increased their populations dramatically by the number of refugees. we are putting a lot of support into those countries and working with them very effectively but it is a very big problem. the numbers – as you have rightly indicated and as honourable members have described – are increasing day by day. we get messages every day about how many people are crossing the borders, and we have to expect that influx to continue to grow. honourable members, i share your deep concern and frustration about the situation. every day we try to work out a more efficient and effective way to help and support the people, and we will continue to do that.
vpc/hr. − mr president, i should say to the honourable member that i am always happy to answer questions in any way that i can. the first thing to say is that when we were discussing russia, which is getting ready for the european council discussion on russia, we talked about a whole range of different ways in which we engage with russia. for example, we engage with them on the iran e3+3 talks which, as you know, i led recently in kazakhstan and will do again in two weeks time. we try to always work on our relationships and, when i meet with the russian foreign minister, syria is always on the agenda; and indeed in the summits with president putin, so to the same. it is really important that we carry on engaging with them on all the different issues that we are confronted with and try and persuade them of the need to move forward to find the solution that so far has eluded us. secondly, in terms of what the foreign affairs council does on weapons and non-lethal aid: i have put on the agenda of the foreign affairs council, twice, discussions on what we should do in support of the people of syria. this is a conversation, a discussion, a debate that goes on in every single foreign affairs council and many conversations in between. always, i talk about looking at all options; because it is very important that we have those debates in the detail that really will make our deliberations move us forward. regarding the issues of non-lethal aid and technical assistance: this is partly a clarification of what exactly we are trying to do to support the people, and ensuring, within the legal frameworks we operate in, that we are clear about what we are doing and what we are not doing. i have made clear that in those debates no member state suggested that we should lift the arms embargo and provide weapons. nonetheless, we will continue to come back to those discussions because it is important to keep that debate going. one of the big considerations, and it has been raised here already, is that in anything we do we have to answer the question: do we think this will prevent deaths or do we think that this is actually going to make things more difficult? that, i have to say, is part of every discussion that we need to have.
the crisis is worsening, as has been dramatically described today, in syria, in the neighboring countries. the european union has been committed to humanitarian support and pays tribute to the official of the delegation in damascus, ahmad shihadeh, who paid with his life for his dedication to helping the syrian people. but humanitarian aid is not enough, it is not the means to achieve a political solution. i am not in favour of supplying arms when we do not know who is to have them and how to control them, but others do, and we are not deluding ourselves, despite the embargo. the european union must urgently invest more in political negotiations, involving the main actors in the resistance to bashar al-assad now, to encourage the emergence of political forces with a non-sectarian democratic agenda, inclusive of all minorities in post-assad syria. the process may be long, hard and time-consuming, but it will be indispensable because, after assad, there will be another battle for the reconstruction of syria, for the construction of a democratic syria against the totalitarian and obscurantist forces that are taking advantage of the present war to establish themselves on the ground. we must also tell russia and china, at every opportunity, discreetly and with the megaphones that diplomacy allows, that it is time to assume their responsibilities for this human catastrophe of incalculable proportions that will possibly vote syria, another country, to the category of failed state. all because they blocked and block the action of the un security council. the war crimes in syria by bashar al-assad and others, including rebel forces, must be referred to the international criminal court. (the president cut the speaker off)
there are some things i don't understand about this debate. the refugees are in the camps in syria, a million of them in emergency. we have already twice in this parliament approved an emergency package for the resettlement of refugees who are in precisely this situation. three million euros in a separate envelope without having to go to the european refugee fund for money. why isn't it used? there are women who are victims of physical and sexual violence in these camps. our priorities for the european refugee fund say that they must be at the forefront of resettlement. why has this measure not yet been implemented? mrs ashton says: it is very difficult to make a humanitarian corridor in syria. we have more than a humanitarian corridor, we have a border with syria. the european union often forgets that cyprus is 60 km by sea from syria, near the city of latakia, where tons of weapons arrive but from which no refugee leaves for the territory of the european union. these refugees, many of them, are being radicalized in countries like qatar or saudi arabia and then, of course, the european union will complain when syria falls into the hands of extremists but before that it did nothing to stop that from happening.
5,000 syrians flee violence every day to neighboring countries. it is undoubtedly a humanitarian catastrophe arising from a war that should not exist. but a war that is not fought between syrians because, contrary to what has been said, what has been most present in this conflict is international intervention. it is now publicly and assumed that this war is being engineered, financed and conducted from abroad and that therefore without the criminal action of the united states of america, the allied nato powers, israel and the dictatorships of the persian gulf, the present war would not be possible. the same people who are considered terrorists in mali are in syria transformed into a free army, as they were in libya designated rebels. for the united states, anything goes to destabilise the region of the so-called greater middle east, anything goes to defend its interests in controlling the world economy and geopolitics. all right, we want to protect syrian citizens and we want peace. the best way to do this in the long term is to promote a political solution, which will only be possible if we do not participate in the ongoing foreign intervention in syria, that is, if we do not support the training and arming of terrorists who are dedicated to destroying, attacking and looting public buildings, attacking energy infrastructure and kidnapping citizens. the syrian refugees would appreciate it.
mr president, the stabilization of mali is essential for the security of the whole of the sahel, of north africa and also of europe, and for that reason i pay tribute to the initiative of france and to the french soldiers who are fighting there, some of whom have already lost their lives. the military training mission launched by the european union last month in the context of the common security and defence policy is delayed. the elections in july may be good news, but they will be only a step in a political process which must be able to link the military effort with a process of national reconciliation which has not yet begun and with reforms which the rule of law demands and respect for human rights, because it is human security for all the people of mali that is at stake. and that is why it is vital that the european union encourages the malian authorities to embark on a process of reconciliation involving the representatives of the tuareg people in the effort to achieve a national consensus on the future of mali. it is also essential that the european union put into practice a strategy based on the sahel security and development strategy, combining military efforts, development aid and good governance with humanitarian aid, and also fighting impunity in the face of the violations of human rights and humanitarian law which continue to be committed in northern mali, both by islamists and by the malian armed forces themselves, as the un high commissioner for human rights said just a few days ago. eutm mali is a step in the right direction in a complex set of gears. it is important that european governments understand that it is in the sahel, and in mali in particular, that european security is also at stake today. mali is home to complex criminal and terrorist networks which threaten not only european interests in the region but also the security of our citizens on european soil. that is why the european union must also spread the security effort among its member states. and to distribute in times of budgetary constraints means to make a wise management of existing human, military and financial resources. this is why we affirm that the current funding scheme for common security and defence policy missions does not stimulate the generation of forces and that the funding of missions by force-contributing states prevents several members from being involved in csdp missions, as is well demonstrated by the worrying slowness in the deployment of eutm mali.
mr president, france's military intervention in mali is continuing under the pretext of fighting armed islamic terrorists. but are these really the reasons, or is it rather a french attempt to rebuild its colonial web of domination, destroyed by decades of struggle by the african peoples, and thus to control and exploit abundant natural resources such as oil and uranium, particularly at a difficult time of deepening crisis? i would like to ask the commission whether it does not consider that military interventions and occupations, as reality shows, only contribute to the intensification of extremism and terrorism. and it is also widely believed, whether or not it is true, that the radical islamic forces operating in north africa have close links with the so-called armed opposition in syria, which is so dear to and protected by the european commission.
mr president, china is a prosperous world power with special responsibilities as a permanent member of the security council. the strategic partnership between the european union and china is therefore a key relationship for finding answers to global concerns - from international law to security to regional conflicts, to non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. we have already talked about china here today in connection with north korea and syria. financial regulation and global economic governance, sustainable development and climate change are also areas requiring synergistic cooperation between the european union and china. the european union must be strategic, promote political, economic and trade dialogue with china, but firmly defend its interests and values, not limiting itself to issues on which we have common positions. it's just that we don't often have - we don't have common interests. you have to take it. or we have the chinese people and not the undemocratic and opaque system that reigns in china. which makes shanghai residents these days ironic that the thousands of pigs that are floating in the river have committed suicide because they don't want to breathe the polluted air that suffocates the citizens. the european union must try to convince the chinese regime that it is in its interest to open up politically, that a situation of violation of the economic, social, cultural, political and civil rights of chinese citizens is unsustainable. we have to give visibility to those chinese citizens who, with great courage and personal cost, are fighting for their human rights and for scrutiny of the government. hu jia, liu xiaobo, ai weiwei... are just a few of the many names, including tibetans and uighurs, who resort to the extreme of self-immolation and who should be mentioned repeatedly on all platforms of the eu-china dialogue at the highest level. moreover, it is in our interest and in the interest of european companies to persuade our chinese partners to change the way they have been interacting with developing countries in trade and economic terms, which is not consistent with the promotion of human rights, the rule of law, transparency, environmental protection, etc., and sustainable development. we cannot promote these values effectively and we cannot make our companies competitive in a responsible way if there is a chinese alternative devoid of democratic oversight and of political, ethical and environmental concerns.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mutuality reflects the fundamental principles of the european social model, based on solidarity, democracy and social cohesion. despite the undeniable importance of reciprocity, european union legislation is still totally lacking in this area. in 1992, 21 years ago, the european commission put forward a proposal for a regulation on the european status of mutual societies, which was unfortunately withdrawn. today, fortunately, the situation is quite different. mutual societies provide health care and social protection for 160 million european citizens and employ more than 350 000 people in the union, and they cannot be ignored in the internal market or the european economy. mutual societies must be provided with legal instruments enabling them to operate on an equal footing with other types of undertaking in the internal market, to the benefit of citizens, the economy and job creation. in the face of new sustainability challenges, social protection systems in the member states have a key role to play: the question of the social economy. we therefore urge the european commission to propose an optional regulation to be incorporated into the legislation of the member states. this regulation should cover the main features of mutual societies, without, however, affecting the action of the member states in the field of social protection. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, mr rübig, it is clear that women must have job opportunities, and the encouragement of female entrepreneurship is very important in order to create jobs that are specifically targeted at women. the social economy is an economy very much marked by the presence of women. the social economy, through mutual funds, and with this instrument which we are now urging the european commission to be the driving force behind a legislative initiative to make it a reality, is another instrument to enable men, women and young people, in the union space... to have more economic growth and more job creation.
mr president, the social economy is based on the use of economic principles as a means of achieving the objectives of economic and social cohesion. in this sector, the production of goods and services is aimed at economic development and the promotion of social welfare, not profit-making. the sector therefore has a key role to play in society and should be duly recognised, encouraged and supported. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. on the contrary, the so-called austerity policies have a profoundly negative impact on the activities of many institutions, aggravating an already critical situation and calling into question important projects - some of which are under way and others which, unfortunately, have not yet been born. this initiative goes far beyond this, and therefore calls for a characterization of the sector at the level of the different member states, a more effective framework and monitoring, and the development of specific lines of financing and support, either at the level of the community budget or, for example, by the european investment bank. this is in addition, of course, to the need to change the policies which are currently stifling the social economy.
in writing. the strength and importance of mutuality derives from its strong local roots, from the level of proximity responses it achieves, adapted to the environment in which it is embedded, and which are its true raison d'être and the main reason for its success. moreover, this form of social economy, with its intrinsic territorial basis, does not move in search of better profitability, because its aim is precisely to find answers to specific local needs and not to seek better business. this is their strength, which increases the resilience of the territories they enter and should therefore never be compromised. beware of the idea of multinational mutual societies: the principle of 'one man, one vote' is one of the main reasons for the success of this form of social economy and is an essential tool to ward off the temptation to focus mutual societies on profit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of mutual societies. if we do, we will be weakening rather than strengthening the role of mutual societies with the populations they serve.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, first of all we know that this is a big problem. for some years now there have been signs in several member states of recurrent police and judicial issues because of arrangements to link bets to football matches or other sports. we now know that this is a huge problem, after the latest investigations by europol, which gave us access to information about a cross-border network of criminal organisations operating in this area. these are the two other issues that i think are important to stress. the first is that it is a problem of links to criminal organisations and therefore organised crime, and therefore part of a legal basis that we are building at european union level. and secondly, that it is a cross-border problem, and that as such it is already part of the legal basis of the european union. we will not be able to combat this problem without action by the union. on the other hand, it is a problem which concerns everyone in society, particularly sports federations. and here i want to call on sports federations to work together with the national authorities and the european union to, i will use a strong expression, to clean up. it is not possible for sports federations, which need the single market to have their viewers, which need the single market to have freedom and the union to have freedom of movement, then, for example, as happened recently with the ice hockey federation, to award championships to belarus, for example, which is a country that is clearly not in line with european standards, and there are often suspicions of corruption on the part of these awarding of championships. on the other hand, the online gambling sector needs to be regulated. we must follow up the recommendations on money laundering, and i have made several of them, which are in the thematic paper of the special committee on organised crime, money laundering and corruption. and we should take this into account. this is not a minor problem because it's only in sports. in conclusion, mr president, i would say that sport is indeed very important culturally, internationally, in our societies, and cannot be understood as a sort of compartment where illegality can take refuge.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which aims primarily to highlight women's rights, but also to point out the continuing difficulties and threats they face in their quest for equality and, finally, how european union instruments can be used to support women's rights. in many countries, the design of gender-friendly constitutions is at the heart of political debate. the biggest challenges for women in egypt, libya and tunisia is to ensure women's participation in the bodies responsible for drafting the constitutions and the status of women in society which is now being discussed between modernists and reactionaries. the impact of the arab spring in morocco was different in many countries, because as we saw, many islamic parties won the general elections in 2011. the role of political islam is critical and its moulds crucial.
in writing. − the countries of north africa are in a process of political and democratic transition which began in 2010 with the so-called arab spring and in which women have played an active role. in this period of profound change, the issue of women's rights is at the heart of political debate and there is a high risk that we will see a worsening of their situation. the european union also has a role to play in promoting equality between men and women in these countries. through the new european neighbourhood policy, the european union can contribute to the building of democratic regimes and the economic and social development of its southern neighbours. i supported this report which advocates the need for these countries to incorporate the principle of equality between men and women into their constitutions and thus prohibit all discrimination and violence against women.
in writing. − the countries of north africa have been undergoing major changes, notably in terms of political and democratic transition and state reconstruction the so-called arab spring , and the outcome of this process should shape the democratic functioning of these countries and the level of respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. the dictatorial regimes in these countries have always limited the active participation of women and the effective recognition of their dignity, rights and access to justice. women's rights are one of the most debated issues in the current political process. the transitions under way can only lead to democratic societies and political systems if their constitution enshrines the principle of equality between men and women, prohibiting all forms of discrimination and violence and consolidating women's political, economic and social rights (in matters of marriage, divorce, child custody, inheritance, legal capacity, etc.). i also hope that these countries will begin to develop a strategy for the victims, particularly those who have been the victims of sexual violence in these troubled times, by providing them with the necessary economic, social and psychological support. it is up to the eu, through its new enp, to support the building of these democratic regimes as well as economic and social development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the persistent difficulties and potential problems that women continue to face in the struggle for equality in north african countries, despite their involvement in demonstrations being key to the success of liberation movements. the eu can play an important role in this area. these issues can and should be among the eu's priorities when defining programmes and support under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument.
in writing. - tunisia, egypt, libya and morocco are still going through a crucial moment in their history, but it has already given rise to a change of regime, leaving behind years of more or less liberal autocracy depending on the country in question. the countries concerned, targeted by the so-called arab spring, during the process of regime change and drafting of a new constitution, witnessed the emergence and relevance of women both as representatives and protesters in the demand for their rights, but also in the leadership of civil movements and the organization of non-governmental structures. such a change is therefore to be commended and encouraged. however, and because of the cultural tradition of these countries with regard to the role of women in society, more needs to be done in promoting them. i therefore agree with the rapporteur, silvia costa, that some eu instruments should be used to support women's rights and gender equality in the democratic process in these countries.
in writing. − although much remains to be done, the emancipation of women has made a significant contribution to gender equality at the level of the european union (eu). however, if the situation of women is at all acceptable at european level, the truth is that there are countries where women's rights are not respected. we all know about practices that undermine women's freedom and dignity, such as forced marriage, female genital mutilation, sexual violence and prostitution. even in countries where women have played a decisive role in the struggle for freedom and self-determination, such as those swept away by the so-called 'arab spring', their rights are being undermined, with some claiming that even the gains made under dictatorial regimes are now being called into question. i voted in favour of the report by mrs silvia costa on the situation of women in north africa because the eu must put the promotion of gender equality at the heart of its strategy to support the development of these countries - even if a change in mindset is needed - so that rural and urban communities can support the integration of women in the various sectors of civil society: services, enterprises, universities, etc.
in writing. the report expresses deep concern about the situation of women in north africa (tunisia, libya and egypt). the situation is still very unstable and disturbing. women have to face a daily battle not to win new rights, but simply to preserve the gains of the past. the report stresses that inequalities and the lack of participation of women in democratic life in these countries will prevent a genuine democratic process. the report urges the authorities of the countries concerned to enshrine irreversibly in their constitutions the recognition of women's political, economic and social rights, the prohibition of all forms of discrimination and the guarantee of gender equality in the penal codes and social security systems. it called on the commission to strengthen the integration of gender issues in the various eu interventions and to increase the financial envelope for support for women in the region. it refers to the need to facilitate access to social protection, health services, especially in relation to maternal health, sexual and reproductive rights. many of the amendments tabled by our group were adopted, which has improved the report. we appreciate all the positive points in the report, even if we do not follow an interventionist approach which goes through other points.
in writing. - this report focuses on four north african countries: egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia. despite their differences, they were all faced with regime change, elections and the reworking of their constitution. in the decades before the uprisings, women in tunisia and to some extent in egypt, morocco and libya had succeeded in getting relatively advanced legislation in place to protect their rights. yet in reality, the repressive nature of regimes, the lack of effective law enforcement and traditional perceptions of women's role have limited the achievement of true gender equality. despite progress, there is still a long way to go in terms of women's rights in these north african countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the objectives of the report, namely to highlight the achievements of women in various arab countries, their commitment to democratic transition, participation in civil society, ngos, media and political parties, the recognition of the difficulties and potential problems they face and finally the framework on how eu instruments should be used to support women's rights and gender equality in the democratic process in these countries. finally, i consider the fight against gender discrimination to be fundamental.
in writing. - this report focuses in particular on the countries of north africa, in particular egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia, which are experiencing the aftermath of the arab revolution. the role that women have played in the revolution, and should play in the transition processes, should be supported through union initiatives. these countries should create a legislative framework that eliminates all forms of discrimination and violence against women. this legal basis should be communicated to society through education, training and the participation of women in political and social decision-making. through its instruments, in particular the european neighbourhood policy and the union for the mediterranean, the union should encourage the gender dimension in policies to be created, through the 'more for more' principle. eu support for gender issues in the region currently stands at €92 million. as in european societies, the vulnerability of women creates patterns of social exclusion and poverty. equality between men and women must be a priority for the union in its relations with these countries, where everyone should have the same political, economic and social rights.
in writing. the report expresses deep concern about the situation of women in north africa, particularly after the arab spring (tunisia, libya and egypt). the situation is today very unstable and dramatic, since women have to face a daily battle, not to win new rights, but simply to preserve the gains of the past. the report clearly emphasizes that inequalities will impede a genuine democratic process. we agree that there must be legislation to prevent violence against women and that everyone should be guaranteed access to public health systems, that they should be protected in maternal health and that sexual and reproductive rights should be guaranteed. however, we cannot agree that the ep should decide to intervene in aspects of the political systems of these countries - such as when it advocates the introduction of quotas - which are for them alone to decide. finally, we are certain that only when these countries are free from foreign interference and are sovereign in their own resources and future will they be able to achieve levels of development which will have a positive impact on the women of these countries.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that, although the main objective of eu development cooperation is to reduce or eradicate poverty, both interim reports show that resources invested in key areas, in particular gender equality, health and basic education, have been insufficient. the report therefore reiterates the recommendation to the commission, the acp countries and the council to allocate 20% of the 11th european development fund to the provision of these basic services of general interest. i also express my concern at the recent proposals to reduce the level of appropriations for the european development fund and, in this connection, stress the importance of securing new sources of financing for development, in particular through the introduction of financial transaction fees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'financing eu cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific states and overseas countries and territories for the period 2014-2020' because, although the ultimate objective of the union's development policy is poverty eradication, we have found that the european development fund has been insufficient in this area. it is therefore necessary to increase investment in acp countries, in particular in the areas of gender equality, health care and education, while ensuring compliance with environmental and social standards and respect for human rights.
in writing. − european development policy aims at eradicating poverty in the countries with which it cooperates, including the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. so, as this parliament votes today on the distribution of funds from the 11th european development fund, particularly as regards the financing of eu cooperation with the acp states, i am pleased to see that a large part of this budget is allocated to concrete actions to improve the welfare of the citizens of the countries concerned.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis is forcing the european union (eu) to rethink its strategy for supporting developing countries. the current budget cuts and the lack of new revenue are hampering community investment. now the watchword is financial efficiency: doing more with the same resources. the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2007 to 2013, through the european development fund (edf), has made it possible to implement certain development programmes in third countries which, given the expectations created, should be maintained, since the support for the inhabitants of the poorest and most socially vulnerable regions is at stake. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report on the preparation of the new mff as regards the financing of eu cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific states and with overseas countries and territories for the period 2014-2020 (11th european development fund). despite the cuts, the eu must continue its work, not by betraying expectations or calling into question current programmes, but by directing resources where they are most effective in eradicating poverty as enshrined in the cotonou agreement.
in writing. the european development fund (edf) is the main instrument for financing development cooperation. the edf is financed from the budget of the member states on the basis of specific contribution keys. the rapporteur proposes that the edf, as from 2021, be included in the eu budget in order to increase its transparency, visibility and predictability. this amendment may not entail a reduction in expenditure on development aid but, on the contrary, an increase. it also advocates greater democratic control through the involvement of national parliaments in the monitoring of the use of funds provided for in the budget. the report stresses objectives and principles such as poverty eradication (considered the main objective of eu development cooperation); democratic ownership as the basis for aid effectiveness; capacity building of national parliaments and courts of auditors in acp states, as well as information for civil society; increased support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the importance of the role of women as active facilitators of development policies, and the fight for equality between men and women. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the main objectives of both european development policy (under article 208 tfeu), the cotonou agreement and the european consensus on development are to reduce poverty and, in the long term, to eradicate it. thus, at least 90% of the funds allocated under the 11th edf to the acp states must meet the criteria for official development assistance (oda) as defined by the oecd development assistance committee. only in this way will the objectives set out above be achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i consider that the objectives of this declaration - increasing competitiveness, strengthening resilience, reducing vulnerability and promoting cooperation with other partners - are essential for both these territories and the octs. in this context, i stress the need to 'promote the brand image of specific products', especially when these economies are harmed by eu agreements with third countries, and also the need to redefine a differentiated european strategy that strengthens the competitiveness of these regions in the areas of tourism, transport, fisheries and agriculture.
in writing. − the european union has a special relationship with countries and territories with constitutional links to its member states in africa, the caribbean and the pacific. the edf is intended to eradicate poverty and promote economic and social development in the acp area. like the commission and the rapporteur, i agree that special attention should be given to the poorest countries, while not neglecting the need for continuous and accurate evaluation of the results in terms of the effectiveness of the aid provided to them. in order to ensure the coherence of the union's action, i urge the eu to impose a number of environmental and social standards on companies wishing to obtain public contracts financed by the edf in the acp countries. finally, given the proximity of the octs to the acp countries, i share the view that joint projects between the octs, the octs and the acp countries should be multiplied, and that it is the union's responsibility to improve coordination and synergies between cooperation programmes supported by different eu financial instruments. in view of the economic and social potential for both the acp and the eu, and with particular attention to the outermost regions, i voted in favour of the report submitted under the 11th european development fund.
in writing. - the edf is financed from the budget of the member states on the basis of specific contribution keys. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the author also advocates greater democratic control through the involvement of national parliaments in the control of the use of funds provided for in the budget. the report stresses objectives and principles such as poverty eradication (considered the main objective of eu development cooperation); 'democratic ownership' as the basis for aid effectiveness; capacity building of national parliaments and courts of auditors in acp states, as well as information for civil society; increased support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the importance of the role of women as active facilitators of development policies and the fight for equality between men and women. we assess the report as positive.
in writing. − the mff 2014-2020 should ensure the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and provide the eu with the means to recover from the crisis and emerge stronger. i therefore stress the importance of substantially increasing their investment in innovation, research and development, infrastructure and youth support, while also meeting the eu's climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion. on the other hand, i am concerned about the lack of transparency in the way in which a political agreement was reached in the european council, both as regards expenditure and the 'revenue' part of the mff, because we must have all the relevant information available to the commission on the level of national amounts agreed, particularly in the area of cohesion and agricultural policies, including the derogations and specific allocations to each member state. finally, i express my firm opposition to a financial framework which could lead to a structural deficit in the eu budget, contrary to the treaty (articles 310 and 323 tfeu).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i rejected the agreement reached in the council on the multiannual financial framework. the agreement, in its present form, does not reflect the priorities and concerns expressed by the european parliament. for this agreement to be accepted, the council must do more and better to ensure that the union has a modern, future-oriented, flexible and transparent budget which can contribute to promoting growth and jobs.
in writing. - the resolution voted today was necessary to open a negotiating phase with the council, since the position of the majority of parliament seems to differ on essential points from that taken by the heads of state or government. such differences are normal in a democracy and only reinforce the functioning of the institutions. this is why some people feel it is essential that the mff assumptions be revised and that more flexibility be introduced. but as regards the overall figures, i would like to stress that we are all aware of the difficult period we have been through and that in this very difficult context portugal has nevertheless managed to negotiate well, improving its relative position vis-à-vis the other member states, which is, in the present circumstances, the best we could achieve.
in writing. - according to the lisbon treaty, the council adopts the mff unanimously after obtaining the ep's favourable opinion. the ep has not yet given its opinion on the council's unanimous agreement. the ep wants flexibility, a revision that can increase the appropriations for the headings midway through the process and the existence of genuine own resources. flexibility is essential as it allows the implementation of the mff to be optimized. it is enough that the funds allocated annually to payments which are not annually implemented can be carried over and added to the budget of the following year to have a budget larger than that which was implemented in the 2007/2013 period. i am aware of the economic difficulties underlying the adoption of the proposal for a regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014 to 2020. however, the eu needs a flexible and modern budget that not only helps member states to solve their financial problems but also promotes growth and job creation. for these reasons i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february.
in writing. - the agreement reached in the european council and this resolution of the european parliament, as the development of this process will make even clearer, are two versions of the same policy. the rejection of the agreement in its current form does not represent any substantive divergence as regards the amounts and priorities of the eu budget. this is also made clear by parliament's resolution of october 2012 on the mff 2014-2020, which is now taken as the guiding principle of the mandate for the negotiations that follow. we were against that resolution. so we could not support a mandate based on it. this is a further attempt by parliament to defend its own power to decide on the budget. and in that sense, it is an affirmation of a federalist vision, which does not call into question the eu's current policies, but rather confirms them. the resolution opposes the current system based mainly on contributions to the budget by each member state according to its relative level of wealth to a system based mainly on own resources, which would be based mainly on taxation. it is an option which, as we have said, further calls into question the redistributive function which the budget should have, thus maintaining and deepening existing inequalities, injustices and problems.
in writing. − the negotiations on the mff for 2014-2020 are taking place in a very adverse social, economic and financial context, in which member states are making considerable efforts to adjust their national budgets with a view to the sustainability of public finances and the stability of the banking sector and the single currency. the eu budget is part of the solution that will enable europe to overcome the current crisis by promoting investment in growth and jobs, and by helping member states to tackle, collectively and in concert, the current structural challenges, including the loss of competitiveness and the increase in unemployment and poverty. the european council conclusions on the mff represent a political agreement between heads of state or government. however, this agreement in its current form does not reflect the priorities and concerns expressed by the european parliament, and does not take into account its role and competences as defined in the lisbon treaty. parliament is, however, prepared to enter into in-depth negotiations with the council on all the provisions of the mff regulation and the interinstitutional agreement in order to ensure that the union has a modern, future-oriented, flexible and transparent eu budget that can deliver growth and jobs.
in writing. - i support this resolution which represents a firm, coherent and realistic position of parliament to start negotiations with the council on the next multiannual financial framework. the council's proposal reveals a dramatic paradox: we know that the european union is facing a crisis unprecedented in its history, a financial, economic and social crisis, and that it needs extraordinary instruments to get its economy going. at the same time, for the first time in the history of the european union, a budget is being negotiated on a downward basis. that is to say, the moment when europe most needs the means to stimulate its economy is also the moment when the council chooses to cut those means. the council then says that in the present crisis the average citizen would not understand an increase in the european budget. this is a false and demagogic argument, since 94% of the budget is invested in the member states and their economic and social development, for the creation of jobs and wealth. finally, i would like to stress the possibility that the next european parliament may be able to reopen this dossier.
in writing. − it is essential to achieve a mff that provides a stable budgetary and legal framework for the implementation of major programmes. however, the urgency of this framework cannot compromise the guarantee of essential conditions, in particular the financial means necessary to recover from the economic and financial crisis. only a forward-looking, flexible and transparent budget, with substantially increased investment in innovation, research and development, infrastructure and youth, can close the gap between the eu's political commitments and budgetary means. union expenditure should be mobilised to support sustainable growth, employment and competitiveness in line with the europe 2020 strategy. only a sound cohesion policy can therefore offer the opportunity to overcome the crisis as a key tool for catalysing growth and employment at european level as well as structural reforms at national level. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which rejects the european council's agreement on the mff, as it does not reflect the priorities and concerns expressed by the european parliament.
in writing. the european council met on 8 and 9 february and adopted a new proposal from mr van rompuy, president of the council, entitled 'draft conclusions'. to get a true picture of the reduction in the european budget agreed by the member states at the council meeting on 8 and 9 february, it is necessary to add the reduction in the headings within the mff (€73.248 million) to those outside the mff (€21.523 million), thus making an overall reduction of approximately €95 billion, some 8.5% less than initially proposed by the european commission. i am against the current budget adopted by the member states and in favour of greater flexibility between chapters, sub-chapters and financial years, the inclusion of a clause on the revision of the budget and the increase in own resources to reduce the national transfers from the member states to the european budget. in this regard, i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, jointly drafted by the epp, s&d, alde, greens/efa and gue/ngl political groups, and against the individual resolution of the cor, because i believe that the european parliament must give a strong signal of unity on this matter so relevant to citizens.
in writing. - the agreement reached in the european council and this resolution of the european parliament, as the development of this process will make even clearer, are two versions of the same policy. the rejection of the agreement 'as it stands' does not represent any substantive divergence as to the amounts and priorities of the eu budget. that makes it clear: the parliament's resolution of october 2012 on the mff 2014-2020 is now taken as guiding the mandate for the following negotiations. we were against that resolution. so we could not support a mandate based on it. the resolution opposes the current system based mainly on contributions to the budget by each member state according to its relative level of wealth to a system based mainly on 'own resources', which would be based mainly on taxation. it is an option which, as we have said, further calls into question the redistributive function which the budget should have, thus maintaining and deepening existing inequalities, injustices and problems.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it to be favourable to the commission's proposal for a major review of the european system of national and regional accounts, based on the review of the united nations system of national accounts. i therefore agree with the objective of ensuring independent, viable, comparable and timely statistics. in my view, this revised system can provide european citizens with higher quality macroeconomic statistics, based on appropriate methodology and according to a specific timeframe.
in writing. − this regulation lays down the rules for the compilation and publication of key macroeconomic data in the eu. the commission proposal represents a broad and in-depth review of the european system of national and regional accounts, building on the last revision of the united nations system of national accounts in 2008. statistics are extremely important data for policy-makers, economic operators and citizens to analyse and monitor economic reality. in this sense, these data should be independent, reliable and comparable. they should be published in accordance with a precise timetable and in the highest possible quality. the commission proposal is intended to be strengthened by suggesting the publication of complete data, with a full picture of reality, as even countries with a small weight in the total gdp of the eu can have systemic effects. the published data shall have the user in mind by making the data transmission schedule clearer. the commission should also draw up a report on the quality of national accounts to be submitted to the european parliament every two years and the european parliament should have more time to examine delegated acts. i therefore support this report because i consider the above proposals to be appropriate.
in writing. − the aim of this regulation is to harmonise the rules on the compilation and publication of macroeconomic data in the european union. it is recalled that this regulation was already in force in european legislation, and what was now intended was to revise it in order to increase the level of demand for it. i think this is another important step in the desire to increase the levels of transparency and rigor in the statistical publications of the union, as well as a way of safeguarding future omissions or misinterpretations in relation to such publications.
in writing. - national and regional accounts are a way of assessing the state of our economy. it is therefore essential to have reliable data to enable us to set new targets and correct any deviations. the statistical office of the european union (eurostat) has a key role to play here, provided that the member states (ms) provide it with the requested data in a timely manner. if we take into account that one third of community aid is granted without information on the use of public money and that for years there has been no development in the collection and sharing of statistical information, we can imagine the importance of this regulation. we are often surprised, especially in countries undergoing financial assistance, by serious flaws in macroeconomic forecasts, many of them due to deficiencies in data collection and processing or the omission of relevant data, as is the case with expenditure that aggravates deficits. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague sharon bowles on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european system of national and regional accounts and i call on the member states not to be afraid to increase the transparency of the statistics they have produced in their countries and to provide the data to eurostat.
in writing. − we consider it very useful that there is statistical information at european level which allows for the comparability of economic, social and other indicators, in time and space, between and within member states, which implies the adoption of a set of common definitions and nomenclatures. we are also in favour of the use of new, automatic methods which will enable us to have access to the data collection in real time, and to make the data available to all and to make them understandable. we strongly disagree that the amendments being proposed to the provision of data on national and regional accounts are closely linked to the implementation of the european semester policies and economic governance, to the obsession with tackling the deficit in the context of a deep economic and social crisis. the adaptation proposed in this regulation is not about providing data to enable political decisions to be taken in favour of workers and the people, but rather about continuing and deepening the policies which, in countries like portugal, are causing economic and social disaster. it is information and statistics in the service of a policy that urgently needs to be defeated...
in writing. − this report sets out the rules to be followed in compiling and publishing key macroeconomic data in the eu. statistics are at the heart of public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and timely data are needed for policy-makers as well as economic operators and citizens to analyse, assess and monitor economic reality and developments. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the revised esa will provide european citizens with macroeconomic statistics of the highest quality, based on a sound methodology and presented in accordance with a precise timetable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation which lays down the rules to be followed in the compilation and publication of key macroeconomic data in the eu. in practice, the commission's proposal represents a broad overhaul of the european system of national and regional accounts (esa), building on and deepening the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts (sna, adopted in 2008). it is therefore a more advanced system which will be able to provide all member states with more accurate and reliable information.
in writing. − this regulation lays down the rules for the compilation and publication of key macroeconomic data in the eu. the commission proposal represents a broad and in-depth review of the european system of national and regional accounts, building on the last revision of the united nations system of national accounts in 2008. statistics are extremely important data for policy-makers, economic operators and citizens to analyse and monitor economic reality. in this sense, these data should be independent, reliable and comparable. they should be published in accordance with a precise timetable and in the highest possible quality. the report proposes to reinforce the commission proposal by suggesting the publication of full data, with a full picture of reality, as even countries with a small share in the total gdp of the eu can have systemic effects. the published data should have the user in mind and the data transmission schedule should be made clearer. the commission should also draw up a report on the quality of national accounts to be submitted to the european parliament every two years and the european parliament should have more time to examine delegated acts. i therefore support this report, taking into account the adjustments made to the proposals mentioned above.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal aims to ensure a comprehensive review of the european system of national and regional accounts, building on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts. it is increasingly important that policy-makers, economic operators and citizens in general have access to independent, reliable, comparable and timely statistics in order to make the best decisions over time. i am voting in favour of this report because it advocates more methodological work on the provision of data, greater transparency in the data provided, especially in the public sector, and constant updating of the data. finally, i believe that the regional authorities must be involved in obtaining the most reliable statistical data possible and that the commission should report to the european parliament on the quality of the national accounts obtained.
in writing. − statistics have an important role in providing indicators to guide policies towards economic and social development. we consider it very useful that statistical information exists at european level, allowing for its comparability in time and space, between and within member states, which implies the adoption of a set of common indicators, definitions and nomenclatures. we disagree that the amendments being proposed on the provision of data on national and regional accounts are closely linked to the implementation of the european semester policies and economic governance, to the obsession with combating the deficit in the context of a deep economic and social crisis. the adaptation proposed in this regulation is not about providing data to enable political decisions to be made in favour of workers and people, but rather about continuing and deepening the policies which, in countries like portugal, are forcing the destruction of their productive capacity (when the country needed to produce more), creating more unemployment (when it was necessary to maintain and create jobs with rights) and increasing poverty. the information and statistics are not neutral. in this case, only a policy that urgently needs to be defeated will do.
in writing. - i approve this report, on the understanding that the aspects of the 2006 maritime labour convention relating to flag state control should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific way. one of the great advantages of incorporating the convention into eu law, in my view, is that it will give the convention a much stronger capacity to monitor the community, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which will further strengthen the rule of law. the european union's provisions on flag state control should undoubtedly reflect more closely what the convention specifies and expressly provides in order to avoid divergent interpretations by the member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. − the european parliament (ep) is called upon to give its consent to a proposal for a joint directive (ep and council) on the responsibilities of a flag state in enforcing compliance with council directive 2009/13/ec implementing the agreement concluded by the european community shipowners' association (ecsa) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) concerning the maritime labour convention, 2006, amending directive 1999/63/ec. this directive falls within the framework of the maritime labour convention (mlc) which integrates many other european legal measures. for the mlc to enter into force, it needs to be ratified by 30 countries representing 33% of the world's gross tonnage. the mlc affects some 1.2 million maritime workers worldwide, covers areas as diverse as safety, working conditions, health, social security and welfare, and aims to ensure decent working conditions on board ships. since this directive, by promoting equality worldwide and safeguarding europe's interests, aims to fill the gap in european legislation which prevents the application of the provisions of title 5 of the ctm (inspection procedures and compliance with the regulatory framework), i am voting in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague, mrs pervenche berès.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the ilo in 2006. this convention applies to international maritime transport and covers the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers working on board a ship, working conditions, accommodation, leisure, food and table service, health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection, with a view to ensuring decent working and living conditions on board ships. the eu sees the mlc as a valuable contribution to the objective of creating a level playing field in the global maritime sector by setting common minimum standards for all flags and for all seafarers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful substances. one of the major advantages of incorporating the ctm into legislation is that it gives it a much stronger capacity for enforcement in the community area, for example at the level of infringement proceedings in the eu itself, which will further strengthen compliance with the law. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i believe that the aspects of the 2006 maritime labour convention (mlc) concerning flag state control should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific way, as the integration of the mlc into eu law will give it a stronger capacity for enforcement in the community area, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which will further strengthen the enforcement of the law. eu provisions on flag state control should more closely reflect what the mlc specifies and expressly provides to avoid divergent interpretations by member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) of 2006 relating to flag state control should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific way. one of the great advantages of incorporating the maritime labour convention into european union law is that it will give it a much stronger capacity for enforcement in the community area, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which will further strengthen the observance of the law.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) incorporates new aspects into european law and provides for a stronger capacity for monitoring the convention in the community area, strengthening compliance with the law, since by specifying and expressly providing for the provisions on flag control, it prevents divergent interpretations by member states. the adoption of this report will bring european legislation into line with the relevant provisions of the mlc as regards the responsibilities of the flag state, while also ensuring common minimum standards of working conditions on board a ship for all flags and for all seafarers, i.e. the convention ensures decent working and living conditions on board ships. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the proposal reflects the objectives of the cml as well as the commission's white paper entitled 'roadmap for the single european transport area - towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system' and also allows for the application of the labour rights of workers in the sector as laid down in the maritime labour convention.
in writing. − the integration of aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) into european law provides a strong capacity for enforcement of the mlc in the european area, thus allowing for greater compliance with the law by preventing divergent interpretations by member states. the rapporteur thus intends to fill the gap in the directive on the alignment of european legislation with the relevant provisions of the cwc as regards the responsibilities of the flag state. the convention, when incorporated into european law, is of added importance in creating a level playing field that sets common minimum standards of working conditions on board a ship for all flags and for all seafarers. in other words, the convention ensures decent working and living conditions on board ships. as the proposal is clearly in line with the objectives of the mlc, with the commission's white paper entitled 'roadmap for the single european transport area - towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system' and as it will allow the implementation of the labour rights of workers in the sector as laid down in the maritime labour convention, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation in 2006. this convention applies to international maritime transport and covers such essential matters as the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers to work on board a ship, working conditions, accommodation, leisure, food and table service, health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection and the ensuring of decent working and living conditions on board ships. the rapporteur believes that the aspects of the maritime labour convention 2006 relating to control by the flag state should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific way. one of the major advantages of incorporating the ctm into eu law is that it will give it a much greater capacity to monitor the community area, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which will further strengthen compliance with the law. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome this report as it sets out the main political guidelines and priorities and provides a comprehensive overview of the constraints of the 2014 budget. as key elements, i draw attention to the difficulty of setting budgetary ceilings for 2014 while there are still uncertainties about the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and secondly, with regard to the level of payments. the european parliament called on the commission to submit an indicative amending budget to respond to outstanding requests by the end of march 2013 at the latest, and will not accept an insufficient level of payments for the next framework.
in writing. − taking due account of the union's current financial, economic and social situation, there is a growing need for the institutions to respond with responsibility and restraint to the demands of the very serious situation we are facing and to use rigorous budgetary management processes to achieve savings. the commission has also taken the view that the budgetary procedure should be extended to cover the expenditure of the european parliament and the council.
in writing. − the report under review, by colleague anne e. jensen, focuses on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2014 budget section iii commission. the year 2014 will be the first year with a budget under the new multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 which is being finalised. it is necessary that the outstanding payments to member states for 2012 and those foreseen for 2013 do not affect the 2014 budget. commitments entered into and not yet paid that have transpired in 2012 are to be settled this year in an amending budget. as for priorities, i agree that economic growth and job creation must be at the forefront of driving the european union (eu) out of the crisis. i voted in favour of this report because it points to a budget of austerity which advocates a multiplier effect of the amounts budgeted and which, without forgetting the need to balance public accounts and reduce sovereign debts, recommends investment in research, support for smes and the creation of young jobs.
in writing. - this report is part of a film that has already been seen and reviewed. the majority in the european parliament always enters the budget negotiations from the left, always leaving the path. the criticism here is nothing more than a vent, from someone who is always available for more ahead between more or less excited statements to give the said for not said and sign the cross any proposal of the european council. the alternative is to break with current eu policies and to really address the problems of sustainable economic growth, unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and inequalities. this implies a profound change in the eu budget, its amounts and its priorities. a new strategy and a new direction for europe is needed: a direction of full employment, decent jobs, fair wages; of economic and social cohesion and social protection for all, guaranteeing the highest standards of living; a direction that takes account of the development needs of all member states, in particular those facing the greatest difficulties such as portugal; a direction that promotes real convergence, thus helping to reduce the development gap between member states and the existing economic, social and regional disparities.
in writing. − the eu cannot be left without a budget for the period 2014-2020. the difficulties in the negotiations on the new mff should not undermine the proper functioning of the eu. thus, pending agreement, the european commission should initially draw up the draft budget for 2014 on the basis of its own proposals on the mff 2014-2020 and, if no agreement on a new mff has been reached in the meantime, the commission should adapt its proposal in accordance with article 312 (4) of the treaty and point 30 of the current interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. we must all make an effort to get a new budget passed which has the concern of stimulating growth in order to restore public finances.
in writing. − the 2013 budget negotiations have once again demonstrated that the european union's financing system with annual contributions corresponding to more than 75% of eu revenue is contrary to the letter and spirit of the treaty and is placing the eu budget in total dependence on national coffers, which can be particularly damaging at a time of national budgetary constraints. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the structure of the union's revenue to be reformed to accommodate the introduction of new and genuine own resources, such as the financial transaction tax and the new eu vat. in the same vein, i also support the eu's proposal to reform the own resources system.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution situates the preparation of the 2014 budget in the particular political context of the mff negotiations. the current financial framework expires at the end of 2013 and therefore 2014 should be the first year of implementation of the next mff. the rapporteur therefore insists that if the european parliament has not yet given its favourable opinion on the new mff regulation, the european commission should initially draw up the draft budget for 2014 on the basis of its proposals on the mff 2014-2020. the committee on budgets maintains that the priorities of the 2014 budget are to support economic growth and competitiveness, promote employment and combat youth unemployment. the report, which i voted in favour of, also calls for the level of appropriations for 2014 to be realistic and for a timely level of payments to be achieved for 2013, in order to avoid further deadlock in the negotiations.
in writing. − given the uncertainties surrounding the adoption of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, it is difficult to know on what basis the commission's budget for 2014 should be drawn up. i therefore support the rapporteur in saying that the commission should present its draft budget on the basis of its own proposals for the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. as i have said before, i urge the commission to adopt a budget capable of supporting economic growth and the competitiveness of the european union as a means of combating the high rates of unemployment and youth unemployment that are plaguing the member states and that are putting at risk the very economic recovery of the eu as a whole. however, a realistic budget can only be achieved if the cyclical forecasting mechanisms for all estimated payments are improved and if it is ensured that the eu budget is financed from own resources as a way of ensuring independence of the national interests of each member state. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the criticism here is nothing more than the outburst of someone who is always ready to go further, to say what has been said and to sign off on any proposal from the european council. the alternative is to break with current eu policies and to really address the problems of sustainable economic growth, unemployment, poverty, social exclusion and inequalities. a new strategy and a new direction for europe is needed: a direction of full employment, decent jobs, fair wages; of economic and social cohesion and social protection for all, guaranteeing the highest standards of living; a direction which takes account of the development needs of all member states, in particular those facing the greatest difficulties such as portugal. we have proposed several amendments to this effect which have been rejected by the majority of the ep.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, the number of members of the european parliament must be reduced to 751 at the next elections. with the accession of croatia and the number of meps reaching 766, there is a need to reduce the number of seats in the european parliament by 15. in my view, a well-thought-out reform of the composition of parliament, including a sustainable and transparent method of calculating seats based on the principle of degressive proportionality, must go hand in hand with a comprehensive reform of voting procedures in the council at the future convention after the 2014 elections. it is the best way to achieve a satisfactory reform of the future composition of the european parliament.
in writing. - we are faced with a balanced report which, although not the best compromise, is nevertheless the best solution that could be found. we have taken a pragmatic approach, applying objective criteria to the distribution of seats, based on the principle that no member state should gain more than one member or lose more than one member (with the exception of the specific case of germany, which had 3 additional members as provided for in the lisbon treaty). finally, i would also like to stress that this proposal for a decision will only be transitional in nature, since it will only have an impact on the composition of the european parliament in the next legislature, since we will only be able to create a new and lasting system of allocation of seats in the european parliament in the context of a joint revision with the voting system in the council, in order to preserve the necessary balance in the distribution of powers. this new system should be adopted before the 2019 elections and should be transparent and allow for an automatic distribution of seats between member states before each european election. it should therefore provide for an objective allocation of seats to the member states, based on the principle of degressive proportionality, taking account of possible enlargements and of demographic trends in the population.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is the least of portugal's evils. secondly, because it is necessary to define the composition of the european parliament in good time in order to enable the member states to adopt the internal measures necessary for the organisation of the european elections for the 2014-2019 parliamentary term. these changes, while respecting the provisions of the lisbon treaty and resulting from the accession of croatia, should be replaced by a durable and transparent system which in future, before each election, allows for a more objective allocation of seats to the member states and does not prejudice small and medium-sized countries, such as portugal.
in writing. - next year, elections will be held for the european parliament (ep), which, according to the treaty on european union (teu), should have a total of 751 meps (750 plus the president). the ep currently has 754 meps and 12 observers from croatia, which is due to join on 1 july. the teu also provides that no member state may have more than 96 meps (currently germany has 99) and no member state may have less than 6, which means that there will be a new redistribution of seats. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleagues rafał trzaskowski and roberto gualtieri on the composition of the ep for the 2014 elections, because it is a fair and balanced proposal for all member states. the alternatives presented for representativeness, such as the population of each member state, would be detrimental to member states such as portugal. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. with this proposal, no member state loses less than one member state and gains more than one member state. i would like to emphasize the excellent work of mr paulo rangel, who made it possible to arrive at this balanced proposal.
in writing. - this report advocates an unacceptable loss of another mep for portugal in the european parliament elections as early as 2014. if the european council (which has to decide unanimously, so the portuguese government can and must veto this decision) decides to accept this proposal, portugal will have only 21 members, whereas it already had 25 members. it is regrettable that, unlike in other countries such as austria and ireland where their mps have united in rejecting further reductions, in the case of portugal the psd, ps and cds have accepted not only this further reduction but also the possibility of further reductions in the future. these decisions are all the more serious because they are taken in a context of accelerated loss of democratic rights, of serious limitations on national sovereignty, of the imposition of retrogression in the field of social and labour rights. they seek to make it more difficult, reduce or even eliminate the representation of parties like the pcp, which advocate a break with an increasingly neoliberal, federalist and militarist eu and fight for the construction of another europe of the workers and peoples; a europe of sovereign states with equal rights; a europe of real social cohesion, solidarity, peace and social justice.
in writing. − with the start of the next parliamentary term in 2014, the current derogation from article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union (teu) will cease to apply, with the european parliament now composed of 751 members (750, plus the president). the number of seats is currently 754: 736 elected under the treaty of nice, in force at the time of the 2009 elections, plus 18 appointed under the treaty of lisbon, through an amendment to article 2 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, which also provided for a temporary derogation from article 14 (2) teu (which specifies that no member state may be allocated more than 96 seats) in order to ensure that the 99 seats allocated to germany under the treaty of nice are maintained until 2014. i consider this proposal to be the most balanced of all the others which have been weighed up and analysed. with this proposal, 12 member states lose one member in the 2014 elections, which seems to me to be the fairest solution, and which complies well with the rule of degressive proportionality. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the trzaskowski/gualtieri report on the composition of the european parliament for the 2014 elections for four essential reasons: (a) proposes an amendment which merely aligns the composition of parliament with the treaty of lisbon fixing the maximum number of members at 751 and the maximum number per country at 96 and finding the 11 seats for croatia, which will be an eu member and will participate in the next elections; (b) adopts a balanced and objective solution, because the countries concerned are those which currently have the most favourable population/members ratio: germany will have three fewer (from 99 to 96) and portugal and 10 other medium-sized countries will have one fewer; (c) i would prefer that portugal did not lose a member, but this is a reasonable solution which rejects the opportunist attempt to reformulate the overall territorial distribution of meps in favour of the large countries; (d) finally, this proposal states that any substantive future revision of the composition of parliament will have to involve the voting system of the states in the council, which guarantees a defence against the theses of pure proportional representation in the ep, which would only benefit the large countries.
in writing. − with the start of the next parliamentary term in 2014, the current derogation from article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union (teu) will cease to apply, with the european parliament now composed of 751 members (750, plus the president). the number of seats is currently 754. with the entry into force of the treaty of accession of croatia, 12 seats will be allocated to croatia (which currently has 12 observers). the total number of seats will therefore have to be redistributed in order to bring it into line with the number laid down by the treaty (751). in this balance, a pragmatic solution was chosen, based on a different criterion, namely to minimise the loss of seats for the member states, while respecting, as far as possible, degressive proportionality, in accordance with the principle 'no one wins and no one loses more than one seat', which would not happen in several proposals that were under discussion, which further penalized portugal, and which were the losers.
in writing. - in view of the future accession of croatia and the consequent need to accommodate its members, a proposal for a decision setting out the composition of the ep for the 2014-2019 parliamentary term is hereby put forward. the main thrust of this proposal is the reduction of three seats for germany and the loss of one member from the medium-sized countries, including portugal. although i regret this reduction, the truth is that, compared with previous proposals which led to losses of 3-4 members for the medium-sized countries, the solution found is quite balanced and has therefore achieved a broad consensus. the question of the distribution of seats in the ep cannot be considered without a concomitant revision of the voting system in the council. this is something i have been calling attention to for a long time: the distribution of seats in the ep cannot be based on criteria closer to strict proportionality unless the voting system in the council is revised to ensure greater equality between member states, lest the institutional balance presupposed by the treaties be jeopardised.
in writing. - article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union states that the representation of the population in the european parliament shall be degressively proportional, following the following principles: (1) the minimum and maximum numbers laid down by the treaty should be fully used in order to ensure that the range of seats in the european parliament is as close as possible to the electoral spectrum of the populations of the member states; (2) 'the more populous a member state is, the greater the number of seats it is entitled to'; and (3) 'the more populous a member state is, the greater the number of inhabitants represented by each member of the european parliament in that member state'. i support this report because it makes more sense to reduce the number of members of the european parliament as a result of croatia's accession to the european union and because the ceiling of 751 members must be respected. in this context, i congratulate my colleague paulo rangel on the excellent work he has done in the committee on constitutional affairs, particularly in advocating a pragmatic solution that would minimise the loss of seats for the member states. i also welcome the fact that portugal will lose only one seat in the next european parliament elections, while respecting the principle of degressive proportionality.
in writing. - this report advocates an unacceptable loss of another mep for portugal in the european parliament elections as early as 2014. if the european council decides to accept this proposal, portugal will have only 21 members, compared with 25 at the time. it is regrettable that, unlike in other countries such as austria and ireland where their mps have united in rejecting further reductions, in the case of portugal the psd, ps and cds have accepted not only this further reduction but also the possibility of further reductions in the future. we will not be party to this agreement.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by opposing the adoption of the draft regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks, taking into account the fact that the measures applicable to the spirit drinks sector should preserve the reputation that spirit drinks have achieved in the european union and on the world market, while continuing to take into account the traditional practices used in the production of spirit drinks. furthermore, as i come from an oct with the potential for commercial success in this sector, i believe that it should be taken into account that, depending on the regional availability of certain herbaceous plants and the changing consumer preferences, traditional practices for the production of absinthe in many member states differ to some extent, so that not all traditional recipes provide for a minimum level of anethole and the level of anethole in many products available on the market remains below the 0,5 grams per litre proposed by the commission. as a result of this re-established definition of absinthe, producers should either refrain from using the term 'absinthe' as their trade name or change their old recipes, despite their traditional production methods.
in writing. - while i believe it is important to define and clarify the composition of spirit drinks by imposing precise rules on their presentation, labelling and geographical indications, i also believe that europe must continue to protect its products in their traditional composition and their enormous diversity. that is why i object to a definition of absinthe as proposed, just as i object in principle to any regulation which seeks to eliminate the differences in the composition of our traditional, regional and typical products, which strengthen our european identity and enlarge our immense cultural mosaic.
in writing. the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 88 (2) and (3) and (4) (c) of the rules of procedure, concerns the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications for spirit drinks. annex ii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 defines the categories into which spirit drinks are classified and which should be based on the ancestral practices that have given them distinctive characteristics. absinthe, a spirit drink produced in several member states by 'aromatising ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin or a distillate of agricultural origin with wormwood (artemisia absinthium l.), sandstone (artemisia pontica l.), anise (pimpinella anisum l.), fennel (foeniculum vulgare mill.) and other herbaceous plants', is not listed in annex ii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 and the commission intends to include it. considering that the amendments which the commission intends to introduce into this regulation to include absinthe are likely to call into question the current modus faciendi, harming producers and irritating consumers, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which opposes the draft commission regulation which sought to amend annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. - this resolution opposes the amendment proposed by the european commission to annexes ii and iii to the regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks. the problem is the commission's proposed definition of absinthe. this definition establishes a minimum value of anethole of 0,5 grams per litre and a quantity of tujone between 5 and 35 milligrams per litre. however, that definition does not take into account all traditional practices for the production of absinthe, which differ in many member states, and the various traditional recipes, some of which provide for a lower level of anethole. with this definition, many producers of these absinthe variants would have to refrain from using the term 'absinthe', thus calling into question traditional practices used in the production of spirit drinks. in addition, there are also objections related to public health issues. this is because thujone, used as a flavouring substance, can cause harm to human health. for this reason, many absinthe growers have begun to use thujone-free artemisia plants. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that the commission proposal is not compatible with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 110/2008.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks, in which the european parliament expresses its reservations to the amendment proposed by the european commission and opposes the adoption of the draft in its current form as being incompatible with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 110/2008.
in writing. − the draft commission regulation amending annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks proposes to insert a definition of absinthe in annex ii, which should provide for a minimum level of anethole of 0.5 grams per litre in the drinks so designated. however, traditional practices for the production of absinthe in many member states differ to some extent and not all traditional recipes provide for a minimum level equal to the higher level stipulated by the proposal. the report says that absinthe as a product category should be defined in such a way as to ensure that traditional variants are respected and not to require that traditional methods conform to the definition proposed by the commission. the rapporteur also criticises the contradiction in annex iii, which restricts the definition of absinthe to the presence of a certain amount of thujone, ignoring the fact that some producers already use artemisinin plants which do not have thujone, or contain only trace levels of the substance.
in writing. − the definition of the spirit drink known as absinthe is difficult because the flavouring of the alcohol depends on the regional availability of the herbal plants used and consumer preference. in addition, the definition of absinthe proposed by the commission is restrictive and would imply the alteration of old artisanal recipes, which would consequently involve a change in the inherent characteristics of the drink with the potential to delight consumers and undermine their confidence in producers. i also agree with the rapporteur that the stipulation of a minimum level of tujone (alpha and beta) as part of the definition of absinthe does not add an indispensable characteristic to the definition of the drink. it is noted that regulation (ec) no 1334/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2008 on flavourings and certain food ingredients with flavouring properties used in and on foods already contains provisions on the levels of thujone allowed in alcoholic beverages. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - this resolution opposes the amendment proposed by the european commission to annexes ii and iii to the regulation on the definition, designation, presentation, labelling and protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks. the problem is the commission's proposed definition of absinthe. this definition establishes a minimum value of anethole of 0,5 grams per litre and a quantity of tujone between 5 and 35 milligrams per litre. however, that definition does not take into account all traditional practices for the production of absinthe, which differ in many member states, and the various traditional recipes, some of which provide for a lower level of anethole. with this definition, many producers of these absinthe variants would have to refrain from using the term 'absinthe', thus calling into question traditional practices used in the production of spirit drinks. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i have serious concerns about the fields of europe, particularly as regards producers and their organisations. there is a deep sense that we are making a serious mistake by not opposing what is now obvious: the decision to end the milk quota system as early as march 2015. i am confident that the european commission's ongoing studies, which will be presented in may/june, will confirm this. if we do nothing now, we will have missed the opportunity to correct that mistake. that is why it is time to bring this crucial issue for the whole european dairy industry to the negotiating table. only then will we have a say in the outcome of the elections, which could condemn many of our countries and regions. we must all vote in favour of the proposals which keep open the continuation of the milk quota system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on direct payments to farmers under support schemes under the cap', because it includes proposals to make the cap greener, fairer between member states and more transparent. the importance of measures providing for the subordination of basic payments to compliance with certain environmental standards (eco-conditionality), the possibility of additional payments in compliance with agricultural practices beneficial for the climate and the environment, the reduction of discrepancies between the levels of payments in different regions and countries, and the publication of the list of beneficiaries of agricultural aid should be emphasised.
in writing. − despite all the reforms already introduced in the common agricultural policy, european farmers are still faced with bureaucratic burdens and excessive requirements that condition their access to european support. the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). from my country's perspective, and according to its government, the main policy objectives have been achieved, namely ensuring greater balance in the internal convergence of support to farmers and creating payments for 'environmentally friendly' agricultural practices adapted to the national agricultural reality. however, i fear that the end of milk quotas will seriously jeopardise the sector and the economies that depend on it most.
in writing. - mr luís miguel capoulas santos reports on the decision on the opening and mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on direct payments to farmers under support schemes under the common agricultural policy (cap) (2011/0280 ((cod)). the proposal for a decision is the culmination of a lengthy negotiating process which has taken almost two years and involved many people: politicians, farmers and associations representing the agricultural sector. now, in our hands is the future of the millions of people who produce the goods we feed on every day. environmental sustainability, the defence of small farmers are strengthened. i am concerned, however, that the amendments we proposed to postpone the introduction of milk quotas have been rejected. i am in favour of reducing the costs of living for our farmers and of taking measures to enable us to strengthen agriculture in our country, particularly in the milk sector.
in writing. - more than 20 years after the promise of convergence of cap payments between the various member states, gross inequalities and injustices in the distribution of cap funds persist. this report will prolong them, postponing the promised convergence beyond 2020. portugal is among the countries that receive the least aid per hectare on average (fourth from the bottom out of 27). but this time, inequalities in the distribution of cap funds could have even more destructive effects: the reason for this is that at the same time, the instruments of production regulation, such as quotas, which guaranteed each country minimum levels of production, were dismantled. the slogan, instead of food sovereignty and food security, is the orientation of agricultural policy towards the 'market' and towards 'competitiveness'. but the truth is that some are counting on three or four times as much help as others, who are asked to be "competitive". there is a continuing flow of cash to large landowners, simply because they are landowners , with no obligation to produce. among other things, our proposal to raise the minimum amount of payments to small farmers to eur 1 000, twice the amount proposed by the commission, was rejected. we voted against it.
in writing. − in the current discussion on the cap post-2013 the cap is being asked to make the necessary adjustments (by redefining its objectives and at the same time the means to achieve them) so that european agriculture is able to reconcile food security (forecasts indicate a need to increase crop and animal production by around 70% by 2050 to cope with the increase in the world population, rising income levels and the fight against hunger in the world) with environmental sustainability (while ensuring the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, enhancing the value of rural landscapes and contributing to the economic and social vitality and cohesion of rural territories). the mandate now given to the ep is crucial to achieving a better cap for the future. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which presents a set of measures more favourable to european agriculture and specifically portuguese agriculture than the original one from the european commission. the commission has also proposed that the member states should define 'active farmer' as a term, that support for young farmers should be compulsory, that a simplified scheme for small farmers be introduced, that transfers between pillars be made more favourable, that the southern countries be given a more favourable environment, in particular by excluding permanent crops from the rotation requirement and by increasing direct payments from 10% to 15%.
in writing. − in october 2011, the commission presented a framework of legislative proposals to reform the common agricultural policy post-2013. these legal proposals were announced following the commission communication on the cap for 2020, which outlined a number of possible policy options to respond to the future challenges of agriculture and rural areas and to meet the objectives set for the cap, in particular with regard to viable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, action against climate change, and balanced territorial cohesion. i am pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to adjust the 2,300 amendments, and i voted in favour of the decision to open negotiations and the negotiating mandate, which agrees with the need for greater guidance and a better distribution of payments, and makes the environmental measures mandatory but flexible, particularly in support of young farmers in europe.
in writing. - the european parliament today approved its mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation laying down rules for direct payments to farmers under the common agricultural policy. i support the decision taken by the assembly of which i am a member and believe that a strong cap with an adequate budget is needed so that the european union can produce the necessary quantity and variety of high-quality food at any time and contribute to promoting employment, the conservation and production of environmental goods, combating climate change and territorial management. i also support flexibility between the pillars of the cap, considering that it is urgent to have a new cap as early as january 2014 so that the process of redistribution of funds can start as soon as possible and the existing imbalances can be reduced. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - there are still glaring inequalities and injustices in the distribution of cap funds. this report will prolong them, postponing the promised convergence beyond 2020. portugal is among the countries which receive the least aid per hectare on average. but this time, inequalities in the distribution of cap funds could have even more destructive effects: the reason for this is that at the same time the instruments of production regulation, such as quotas, which guaranteed each country minimum levels of production, were dismantled. the payment of rivers of money to large landowners without any obligation to produce persists. we voted against it.
in writing. − i support this motion for a resolution and the amendments it contains, stressing that the communication on the cap to 2020 sets out the potential challenges, objectives and guidelines for the common agricultural policy after 2013. this reform should cover all the main instruments of the cap, including regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products ('single cmo regulation'). in view of the scope of those amendments, regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 should be repealed and replaced by a new 'single cmo' regulation. the reform should also harmonise, streamline and simplify provisions as far as possible, in particular those covering more than one agricultural sector, in particular by ensuring that non-essential elements of the measures can be adopted by the commission by means of delegated acts. in addition, the reform must continue along the lines of previous reforms, towards greater competitiveness and market orientation and avoid and correct at all costs the market divergences that occur in these negotiations within the internal market with viable financial instruments to avoid harmful consequences in regions highly dependent on the agricultural sector.
in writing. − despite all the reforms already introduced in the common agricultural policy, european farmers are still faced with bureaucratic burdens and excessive requirements that condition their access to european support. the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). from my country's perspective, and according to its government, the main policy objectives have been achieved, namely, ensuring greater balance in the internal convergence of support to farmers and creating payments for 'environmentally friendly' agricultural practices adapted to the national agricultural reality. however, i fear that the end of milk quotas will seriously jeopardise the sector and the economies that depend on it most.
in writing. - for many years, farmers and politicians have been calling for the urgent need to review the common agricultural policy (cap). the measures implemented in previous community frameworks have not had the desired effect and have led to many people leaving farming. the creation of agricultural markets with efficient and transparent management, properly controlled throughout the supply chain of products, will ensure fair livelihoods for farmers, the supply of goods and security for consumers. i therefore welcome the adoption of this regulation, which i consider to be a good starting point for the adoption of a new cap, at a time when the european parliament is taking decisions for the first time with full legislative powers. i would also like to stress the intention to reduce the bureaucracy in all procedures, since every year farmers have to 'cross the storm line' to receive the aid to which they are entitled. i voted in favour of this report by michel dantin and i urge the commission to start negotiations with all partners now, with the participation of the farmers' representative associations, without creating cartels, so that the new cap will enter into force on 1 january 2014.
in writing. - this proposal for a common market organization, in line with previous reforms, continues the dismantling of the instruments for regulating markets and production. in this way, it could more properly be called a 'common market disorder'. the abolition of what was left of the quota system (with the elucidating exception of sugar - a decision which favours the major beet producers, germany and france) and the liberalisation of production could lead to a situation where national sectors such as milk production are effectively liquidated. the existence of fair prices for production will in many cases remain a mirage, putting the continuity of food production in various sectors and countries in question. we have put forward a number of proposals, some of them innovative, which, taken together, constitute an alternative view to that contained in this report. the recovery of the quota system, the fixing of maximum intermediation margins for each actor in the food chain, the introduction of the principle of 'national preference' for countries with chronic deficits in agri-food production and the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by the eu budget are some examples. all these proposals were rejected. the prevailing view is that of a 'market' and 'competitiveness' orientation. we voted against it.
in writing. − in the current discussion on the cap post-2013 the cap is being asked to make the necessary adjustments (by redefining its objectives and at the same time the means to achieve them) so that european agriculture is able to reconcile food security (forecasts indicate a need to increase crop and animal production by around 70% by 2050 to cope with the increase in the world population, rising income levels and the fight against hunger in the world) with environmental sustainability (while ensuring the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, enhancing the value of rural landscapes and contributing to the economic and social vitality and cohesion of rural territories). the ep is thus giving a clear mandate to negotiate with the council and the commission to achieve a better cap. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which presents a set of measures more favourable to european agriculture and specifically portuguese agriculture than the original one from the european commission. at this level, the following are particularly important: updating of reference prices, public intervention in private storage, strengthening of producer organisations, measures to meet portuguese requirements in the wine, sugar (although not meeting the requirements necessary to ensure a good yield for refiners) and olive oil sectors. the rejection of the extension of milk quotas until 2020 is the most important aspect of this report and one which seems to me to be particularly worrying for the sustainability of the milk sector in portugal after 2015.
in writing. − the european commission published in october 2011 the legislative proposals for the introduction of a reformed common agricultural policy on 1 january 2014. in the event of no agreement after 2014 for the mff, the agri committee agreed not to hold the final vote on the legislative proposals, opting for the flexibility provided for in rule 70 of parliament's rules of procedure, in order to obtain a mandate to open negotiations with the council and the commission, on the basis of the amendments adopted by the agri committee and confirmed and amended in plenary. the provisional negotiations can therefore be opened while parliament considers its position on the agreement reached by the european council on the mff. this regulation forms part of a body of four cap regulations and lays down the rules for the common organization of the markets in agricultural products. the rapporteur states his priorities in drafting amendments which take account of the specificities of agriculture and the food supply chain and enable the agricultural sector to circumvent, within defined limits, the normal rules of competition. i voted in favour and i welcome the rebalancing of forces in favour of producers achieved by the amendments to the commission's original text.
in writing. - the european parliament today approved its mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. the cap must have as one of its main axes the guarantee of food security in the member states, which requires the existence of instruments for regulating and distributing production which enable the different countries and regions to develop their production in such a way as to meet, as far as possible, their needs. it is also of fundamental importance to rebalance the balance of power in favour of producers in the food chain. i stress, within the framework of this mandate, the need to safeguard the interests of sugar refiners, in particular by allowing them to maintain their access to raw material supplies. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy is a financial instrument of major importance to european farmers. in order to help farmers adapt to market fluctuations, support measures should continue to be implemented while maintaining and developing the economy of rural areas and balancing the need to ensure competitiveness with the need to preserve the environment. i cannot agree with the proposals of the committee on agriculture concerning sugar quotas. the increase in quotas until the next programming period, i.e. 2020, will affect countries with a zero sugar quota, such as latvia. moreover, it was promised that the quotas would be abolished in 2015, and our people are counting on it. it is also a matter of legal trust. the abolition of sugar quotas in 2015, as proposed by the european commission, will open the door to new growers to enter the system. the result would be increased sugar beet area and lower eu sugar prices, making the industry more efficient and market-oriented. increasing the number of growers would reduce the sugar sector's dependence on imports. in addition, the abolition of quotas would simplify the administrative system, as the need for the application of regular market measures would be reduced. it is precisely because the ep's proposal included a requirement for an extension of quotas that i did not vote in favour of it. thank you.
in writing. - this proposal for a common market organization, in line with previous reforms, continues the dismantling of the instruments for regulating markets and production. in such a way that it could be called a 'common market failure'. the abolition of what was left of the quota system (with the elucidating exception of sugar - a decision which favours the major beet producers, germany and france) and the liberalisation of production could lead to a situation where national sectors such as milk production are effectively liquidated. the prevailing view is that of a 'market' and 'competitiveness' orientation. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this proposal for a decision: in order to ensure the immediate start and efficient implementation of rural development programmes, support from the eafrd should be based on the existence of appropriate administrative framework conditions. therefore, member states should assess whether certain ex ante conditions are fulfilled. each member state shall prepare a national rural development programme for its entire territory, preferably for a set of regional programmes. each programme shall set out a strategy for achieving the objectives linked to the union priorities for rural development and a selection of measures. programming shall respect the union priorities for rural development, while adapting to national contexts and paying due attention to regional contexts, in particular those of the outermost regions, and complement other union policies, in particular the agricultural markets policy, cohesion policy and the common fisheries policy. i agree that member states opting for a set of regional programmes can also draw up a national programme for the implementation of specific measures at national level or a national framework to facilitate coordination between regions in responding to challenges at national level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'decision opening and mandating interinstitutional negotiations on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) ' for including proposals which will support the development of rural economies and communities and create more jobs through measures which provide for more sustainable management of resources and which will, at the same time, contribute to the union's objectives in combating climate change.
in writing. − despite all the reforms already introduced in the common agricultural policy, european farmers are still faced with bureaucratic burdens and excessive requirements that condition their access to european support. the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). from my country's perspective, and according to its government, the main policy objectives have been achieved, namely: ensuring greater balance in the internal convergence of support to farmers and creating payments for 'environmentally friendly' agricultural practices adapted to the national agricultural reality. however, i fear that the end of milk quotas will seriously jeopardise the sector and the economies that depend on it most.
in writing. - the report under discussion, by mr luís miguel capoulas santos, concerns the decision on the opening and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (2011/0282 ((cod)). the proposal for a decision brings together many contributions to the achievement of a strong common agricultural policy (cap) which reconciles environmental problems with the economic sustainability of the sector, thus improving living conditions in rural areas. i voted in favour of the proposal, taking into account the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development, because it implements a greener, fairer cap that is closer to the real problems of farmers. i welcome the dynamisation of rural areas through new incentives to diversify and retain young farmers, as well as support for organic farming and agri-environmental measures.
in writing. − the mandate for opening negotiations on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) is not out of line with the main objectives of the cap, which are oriented towards 'competitiveness' and 'market', i.e. the concentration of production and the promotion of european agro-industry. the commission's proposal is already weak, but parliament is basically confirming it, with the exception of some improvements, which we have supported. the document directs the objectives of rural development support towards 'promoting the competitiveness of agriculture', by funnelling funds to projects with a supposed 'economic viability'. we believe that the eafrd should support strong rural development programmes with adequate financial resources and which, in the national case, confirm priority to supporting family farming projects and small and medium-sized farmers, to increase national production and domestic consumption, reversing the desertification of the rural world and the abandonment of land and production. objectives neglected in this mandate. we cannot but point out the negative aspect of the fact that the entire insurance chapter is considered within the framework of this fund (which requires national co-financing), which will allow the diversion of funds from rural development to the financial system, fuelling new speculative bubbles. we presented alternatives, unfortunately rejected.
in writing. - the second pillar of the cap is an important pillar for farmers, since it is essential in its various aspects, in particular for their positioning on the market, but also for the maintenance and management of agricultural and forestry holdings as a source of biodiversity, of environmentally friendly systems, which are a huge asset that must be supported, thus constituting the 2nd pillar of the cap as a key element in the 'business' of agricultural and forestry activity, and should therefore be recognised and operated as such.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which presents a set of measures more favourable to european agriculture and specifically portuguese agriculture than the original one from the european commission. at this level, i would like to highlight the rejection of the obligation to save 25% of water for an application for aid for irrigation and an increase in co-financing for regions in transition.
in writing. - the commission's proposals maintain the bi-angular structure of the cap, consisting of two general-purpose compulsory instruments in pillar i (direct payments and market support measures), complemented by predominantly voluntary measures better adapted to pillar ii (regional development). the proposal aims to build on the existing model by introducing new measures, for example for organic farming, and by delimiting areas facing specific natural constraints. the provisions to support environmental projects are also improved and the current cooperation measure is significantly strengthened and extended to support a wide range of types of cooperation (economic, environmental and social). for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the european parliament today approved its mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). the eafrd should contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy within the framework of a european strategy for rural development by promoting sustainable rural development throughout the union, in complementarity with other instruments of the common agricultural policy and in a coordinated and complementary manner with cohesion policy and the common fisheries policy. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - we do not agree with the main lines of the eafrd proposal: the document directs the objectives of rural development support towards 'promoting the competitiveness of agriculture', channelling funds to projects with a supposed 'economic viability'. we believe that the eafrd should support strong rural development programmes with adequate financial resources and which, in the national case, confirm priority to supporting family farming projects and small and medium-sized farmers, to increase national production and domestic consumption, reversing the desertification of the rural world and the abandonment of land and production. objectives neglected in this mandate. we cannot but point out the negative aspect of the fact that the entire insurance chapter is considered within the framework of this fund (which requires national co-financing), which will allow the diversion of funds from rural development to the financial system, fuelling new speculative bubbles.
in writing. - i would stress once again that i have serious concerns about europe's farms, in particular with regard to producers and their organisations, as there is a deep sense that we are making a serious mistake by not opposing what is now obvious, namely the decision to end the milk quota system in march 2015. i am confident that the european commission's ongoing studies, which will be presented in may/june, will confirm this. if we do nothing now, we will have missed the opportunity to correct that mistake. that is why it is time to bring this crucial issue for the whole european dairy industry to the negotiating table. only then will we have a say in the outcome of the elections, which could condemn many of our countries and regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'decision opening and providing for the interinstitutional negotiations on the financing, management and monitoring of the cap', because it contains proposals to make the cap greener, fairer between member states and more transparent. to stress the importance of the measures which prevented the possibility of double payments and the suspension of payments in cases of non-compliance with european environmental and animal welfare legislation.
in writing. − despite all the reforms already introduced in the common agricultural policy, european farmers are still faced with bureaucratic burdens and excessive requirements that condition their access to european support. the new legislative framework for 2014-2020 provided a further opportunity to improve this situation and to make the cap a policy that effectively serves farmers, the environment and rural development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). from my country's perspective, and according to its government, the main policy objectives have been achieved, namely: ensuring greater balance in the internal convergence of support to farmers and creating payments for 'environmentally friendly' agricultural practices adapted to the national agricultural reality. however, i fear that the end of milk quotas will seriously jeopardise the sector and the economies that depend on it most.
in writing. - if we want quality of life, we need healthy food. this can only be achieved by producing excellent foodstuffs, which guarantee not only quantity but also quality. in view of this, the dossier on agriculture, and in particular everything related to the new common agricultural policy (cap), is of enormous importance at the level of the european union (eu). i voted in favour of the report by mr giovanni la via on the decision on the opening and the mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the financing, management and monitoring of the cap (2011/0288 ((cod))), because it introduces a significant set of measures aimed at increasing efficiency and transparency in the new cap. i therefore advocate simplification of procedures both for applications and for receipts; public disclosure of all aid received (farmers should not be privileged over other beneficiaries of community funds); the end of double funding; the fight against fraud in the agricultural sector; the redistribution of unused resources as a reward for good practice; and a renewed management that reduces the margin of error and compensates the member states that are more rigorous in this control.
in writing. the cap is structured around two pillars: direct payments and market measures and rural development support. this regulation lays down rules on the financing of expenditure under the cap, including rural development, the agricultural advisory system, the management and control systems to be set up by the member states, and the system of cross-compliance and clearance of accounts. the cap reform now proposed by parliament will not help to overcome our country's chronic agri-food deficits. quite the opposite. this is a reform which does not contribute to the overriding objective of strengthening the food sovereignty and food security of the various countries, allowing the development of agricultural production, especially in the most deficit countries. it does not ensure a fair distribution of direct payments between member states and farmers. portuguese agriculture has been losing year after year from the effects of the cap: in the last 20 years alone, portugal has lost 300,000 farms, at an average of 41 per day. in the last 10 years, the agricultural area has decreased by half a million hectares and the number of large farms has increased in a movement towards concentration of land ownership. we are against this reform. we therefore voted against this report as well.
in writing. − in the current discussion on the cap post-2013 the cap is called upon to make the necessary adjustments (by redefining its objectives and at the same time the means to achieve them) so that european agriculture is able to reconcile food security (forecasts indicate a need to increase crop and animal production by around 70% by 2050 to cope with the increase in the world population, rising income levels and the fight against hunger in the world) with environmental sustainability (while ensuring the conservation of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, enhancing the value of rural landscapes and contributing to the economic and social vitality and cohesion of rural territories). that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − the commission has presented a set of regulations setting out the legislative framework for the cap for the period 2014-2020, together with an impact assessment of alternative scenarios for the evolution of this policy. under the proposal for the mff, the two-pillar structure of the cap will be maintained. in addition to the financial provisions, the regulation brings together all the rules relating to these instruments. as a consequence, the regulations now lay down rules for financing, for the agricultural advisory system, management and control of systems, conditionality and clearance of accounts. my vote is in favour of the amendments drawn up which improve the commission's initial proposal and, by reducing a complex administration system, significantly reduce the burden on farmers.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today its mandate for interinstitutional negotiations on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and surveillance of the common agricultural policy. the union budget shall finance cap expenditure, including rural development expenditure, through the two funds, either directly or in shared management with the member states. it is appropriate to indicate exhaustively the types of measures eligible for funding under those funds. in addition, it is important that the farm advisory system covers at least the requirements and standards that constitute the scope of cross-compliance. membership of the farm advisory system by farmers should be voluntary and all beneficiaries, even if they do not receive support under the cap, should be allowed to participate in the system. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the cap is structured around two pillars: direct payments and market measures and rural development support. the cap reform now proposed by parliament will not help to overcome our country's chronic agri-food deficits. this is a reform which does not contribute to the overriding objective of strengthening the food sovereignty and food security of the various countries, allowing the development of agricultural production, especially in the most deficit countries. it does not ensure a fair distribution of direct payments between member states and farmers. portuguese agriculture has been losing year after year, with the effects of the cap: in the last 20 years alone, portugal has lost 300,000 farms, at an average of 41 per day. in the last 10 years, the agricultural area has decreased by half a million hectares and the number of large farms has increased in a movement towards concentration of land ownership. we are against this reform.
in writing. − the outermost regions continue to face an overly standardised energy policy which does not yet respond adequately to them, which must be considered in this energy roadmap to 2050 under discussion in the eu. in these cases, therefore, more specific approaches need to be developed with posei-type own programmes to find the appropriate answers, not only to solve the particular problems they present but above all to be able to expand the full potential of renewable energies, as in the case of the azores, which are already in rapid development, even exceeding the targets set by the union for 2020. the outermost regions also have characteristics that can make them a reference in the fight against climate change and adaptation to its effects. because of their geomorphological characteristics and geographical location, they are regions more exposed to natural hazards, which also allows them to observe and monitor natural phenomena in a privileged way, constituting a research axis of high added value and an indispensable opportunity for technological cooperation. the azores are already exploiting their endogenous resources to produce geothermal, wind, solar, hydro, biomass and marine energy.
in writing. − the energy roadmap 2050 is of crucial importance for the future of europe. the well-being of europeans, as well as the prosperity of european businesses and the european economy, depend on secure, sustainable and affordable energy, and it is necessary to ensure the eu's energy security through alternative energy sources by reducing dependence on imports. the current energy system and the ways of producing, processing and consuming it appear unsustainable in the future due to high greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, security of supply risks and competitiveness risks related to high energy costs and lack of investment. the aim is therefore to reduce emissions by more than 80% by 2050, while improving competitiveness and security of supply in europe. member states need to work together to coordinate efforts within a wider framework, defining a long-term european strategy for the energy sector. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'energy roadmap 2050' because an energy policy is needed to meet the challenges of sustainability and competitiveness, setting precise long-term targets to enable the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy to be achieved.
in writing. - the energy question is becoming increasingly important. the exponential increase in energy consumption over the last century has led to some of the world's reserves becoming exhausted and has led to the search for alternative energy sources that could meet the needs of modern societies. the earthquakes caused by climate change, which are caused by the increase in the average temperature of the planet due to the greenhouse effect caused by carbon dioxide (co2) emissions, also aggravate the problem. the report by my colleague niki tzavela on the 'energy roadmap 2050: a future with energy' points the way forward for european energy policy towards a cleaner future. to do this, all countries need to implement a policy of reducing carbon emissions. the balance between energy production and the environment is fundamental. renewable energy sources (wind, photovoltaic, wave, geothermal, etc.) with residual impacts on the environment should therefore be promoted. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a set of measures which not only promote energy efficiency above pre-established values so as to reduce our dependence on the outside world, but also guarantee security of supply by building smart grids and by keeping the price for consumers down.
in writing. − the eu energy roadmap 2050 calls for centralisation of national energy policies, aiming at the creation of a european energy community based on privatisation and liberalisation of the energy market. this extensive report covers the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, global energy challenges and the emissions trading scheme, and the agenda of the industry's monopoly groups. on the one hand, the report points to important concerns such as energy efficiency and renewable energy. but on the other hand, national energy sectors are being pushed towards privatisation and liberalisation, in the logic of 'competitive access to energy resources'. we strongly disagree with this view. we fought it. what is needed is to defend a public energy sector, public ownership and management of this sector, with energy prices accessible to the population and maintaining sovereignty in the definition of energy strategies, which is very important for the economy of each member state.
in writing. - although i attach great importance to the energy roadmap 2050 initiative, i chose to abstain in the vote on this report because i consider nuclear safety to be a key issue in the eu. i think there are serious shortcomings in this report in this respect.
in writing. − the variety of geographical conditions makes it impossible to apply the same energy policy to all regions, so that, without forgetting the criteria for common action and aware of the need to respect the eu policy frameworks, each european region must be able to follow an individual plan adapted to its situation and economy, developing the energy sources most likely to achieve the objectives of the roadmap. in particular, it should be taken into account that renewable energy production plays a key role in terms of development and employment in rural and non-rural areas, and all regions are therefore invited to develop and implement energy strategies and to consider including energy in their research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation. on the basis of this expertise, the eu should measure european energy targets at eu level, rather than national targets. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution assesses the energy roadmap 2050, which will serve as a basis for future legislative initiatives on energy policy. the creation of an ambitious and stable regulatory and legislative framework is essential to guide member states in pursuing common objectives such as security of supply, competitive prices and energy efficiency. this european energy community is governed by the political objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. energy policies should be designed from the bottom up, with action scenarios that take into account the potential in the member states. in order to meet the security of supply targets, it is necessary to reduce the dependence on energy imports from third countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources, such as wind and solar energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the competitiveness of the european economy, especially industrial activities, requires the development of appropriate energy policies and instruments to improve europe's ability to compete on a global scale with other nations. this is all the more relevant when the european commission is promoting a third industrial revolution. i welcome this report because it encourages increased security of energy supply through increased diversity of sources and a reduction in imports of energy at volatile prices, leading to higher energy efficiency and more competitive prices. i believe that the energy future of the european union and the consequent achievement of the climate objectives must be reconciled with the specificities of the local and regional level. i therefore urge the european commission to promote genuine decentralised management, with greater involvement of the regions, particularly the outermost regions, which end up having the greatest energy difficulties.
in writing. − important concerns such as energy efficiency and renewable energy are highlighted here, but on the other hand it is confronted with many internal contradictions, in particular when national energy sectors are pushed towards privatisation and liberalisation, while at the same time it is said that energy must be accessible to all and that energy poverty must be tackled. we all know what has led to the liberalisation of this sector within the framework of the single market - which is here defended as a sacrosanct entity in the energy roadmap 2050 - the creation of transnational monopolies by the most powerful countries exploiting the consumer markets of the economically weaker countries, accumulating fabulous profits, while energy prices for consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises are rising to unbearable levels. the report also mentions the global energy challenges and the emissions trading scheme, which has proved to be a speculative market in the price of carbon emissions, cloaked in the promise of a reduction in carbon dioxide that has never happened but has already generated millions. we stand for a public energy sector, owned and managed by the state, with energy prices accessible to the population and maintaining sovereignty in the definition of energy strategies.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste. the union should have an up-to-date system to ensure the safety of all nuclear infrastructure so that it is strictly enforced. this requires member states to implement recommendations made by the commission based on the results of the tests carried out, which also requires neighbouring countries and actors to be involved in the reporting process in a transparent manner and based on the sharing of information by all. we cannot allow another tragedy like fukushima.
in writing. − the fukushima nuclear disaster has raised awareness of the need to review the safety of nuclear installations in europe and worldwide. although the three mile island and chernobyl accidents prompted the adoption of measures to protect nuclear power stations, in many cases, incredibly, the implementation of these measures is still suspended. the results of the comprehensive safety risk assessment carried out by the commission, with the participation of the 14 member states with nuclear power plants and lithuania (in decommissioning), plus three neighbouring countries switzerland, ukraine and croatia , have shown the existence of best practices, but unfortunately also numerous shortcomings. of the 132 nuclear reactors in operation in the eu, the vast majority need improvements in their intrinsic safety. in addition, there are weaknesses in the existing legal framework for nuclear safety which justify an urgent effort to achieve convergence in nuclear safety. i look forward to the introduction of the new nuclear safety directive and hope that the more reticent member states will finally accept that there is a real need to create stricter nuclear standards and that monitoring and verification mechanisms at eu level cannot be limited to peer review of the national nuclear safety framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on 'risk and safety assessments (strength testing) of nuclear power stations in the european union and related activities' because i believe that the lessons of the fucoxima accident and subsequent 'strength tests' carried out in the eu should be drawn in order to strengthen the legal framework on nuclear safety.
in writing. − on 11 march 2011, following an earthquake and tsunami, a major accident occurred at the fukushima nuclear power plant in japan, causing thousands of casualties and untold damage, once again drawing attention to the safety of nuclear power plants. the european community, still reeling from the tragic consequences of the radioactive leak from the chernobyl nuclear power station, has decided to carry out an exhaustive assessment of the operating conditions of its nuclear power stations by implementing so-called stress tests (sts). although some consider nuclear energy to be the energy of the future because of its contribution to reducing co2 emissions, the seriousness of the accidents at chernobyl and fukushima is proof that it is not completely safe. i welcome the initiative to carry out stress tests at all european power stations, the results of which will form the basis of the future directive on nuclear safety, an example of european citizens coming together to ensure their safety. the safety of nuclear power stations must be improved so that citizens can feel safe and have a quality of life.
in writing. − the safety of nuclear power stations is of the utmost importance. the safety of people, workers, public health and the environment are at stake. the european council, following the fukushima accident in march 2011, concluded that 'the safety of all nuclear power plants in the eu should be reviewed'. strength tests have been defined to be carried out in two ways: a safety band to assess how nuclear installations withstand the consequences of various extreme and external events and a safety band to analyse security threats and incidents due to criminal actions. the tests shall take into account the occurrence of natural events, including tsunamis, earthquakes and extreme weather, the loss of safety systems and the management of major accidents, and shall be divided into phases which include the performance of assessments by operators, the submission of proposals for safety improvements, and the independent assessment by national regulators of the assessments carried out, where appropriate. this resolution considers that the requirements associated with stress testing could go further. in this respect, the commission is invited to carry out a more detailed analysis of the costs of improvements, which should not be borne by the taxpayers. we voted in favour.
in writing. − while this report raises concerns about the risk assessment and safety of nuclear power plants in the eu, it could and should go further. nuclear safety is too important in the light of past events not to take all the decisions necessary for its implementation. that is why i abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on comprehensive risk and safety assessments ('strength testing') of nuclear power plants in the european union in which it recommends that the eu support international efforts to develop safety standards as high as possible, which should be rigorously applied and developed in parallel with scientific progress, reflecting the legitimate concerns of citizens.
in writing. − in the wake of the accident at the fucoxima daichi nuclear power station in japan, comprehensive risk and safety assessments ('strength tests') of nuclear power stations in the european union were carried out to assess the readiness of the plants to deal with extreme conditions such as natural disasters. on the basis of these tests, the national regulators concluded that, although there are no technical reasons for decommissioning any nuclear power plant in europe, there is nevertheless a need to implement specific improvements in the safety of the installations, the estimated cost of which, between eur 10 and eur 25 billion, should be borne entirely by the nuclear operators. parliament called on the commission to present proposals on the definition of the principles governing nuclear safety regulation for nuclear power stations in operation, in the process of being decommissioned or already decommissioned, in order to create a nuclear safety oversight mechanism at eu level and to confer responsibility for ensuring nuclear safety. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which seeks to harmonise and enforce the highest safety and security practices and standards worldwide in the eu.
in writing. − the safety of nuclear power stations is of the utmost importance. the safety of people, workers, public health and the environment are at stake. the european council, following the fukushima accident in march 2011, concluded that 'the safety of all nuclear power plants in the eu should be reviewed'. strength tests have been defined to be carried out in two ways: a safety band to assess how nuclear installations withstand the consequences of various extreme and external events and a safety band to analyse security threats and incidents due to criminal actions. the tests shall take into account the occurrence of natural events, including tsunamis, earthquakes and extreme weather, the loss of safety systems and the management of major accidents, and shall be divided into phases which include the performance of assessments by operators, the submission of proposals for safety improvements, and the independent assessment by national regulators of the assessments carried out, where appropriate. this resolution considers that the requirements associated with stress testing could go further. in this respect, the commission is invited to carry out a more detailed analysis of the costs of improvements, which should not be borne by the taxpayers. we voted in favour.
in writing. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to combat the spread of terrorism and to ensure that the situation in the region is not further worsened. we should pay particular attention to them, especially when we remember that in recent years extremist parties have gained parliamentary representation in several member states, which in turn influences decision-making and political debate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission, the council and the member states to step up the fight against hate crime and all forms of discriminatory attitudes and behaviour. it is important that national and european authorities help citizens to be aware of their rights in terms of protection against such crimes, and measures to encourage the reporting of racist and xenophobic crimes are also needed.
in writing. − in 2012, the european union (eu) was awarded the nobel peace prize, a well-deserved prize that recognises the role of the european institutions in the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crime. despite our code of conduct being respect for human rights, the truth is that, even at eu level, there are still violations of these rights that must be brought to an end. because we have an obligation to denounce and punish not only xenophobic and racist crimes against minorities but also hate speech and incitement to violence, i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution tabled by the political groups epp, alde, s&d, gue/ngl, ecr and greens/efa and i call on the commission to promote a campaign of awareness-raising with the member states to introduce in their curricula the principles of non-discrimination of any kind so that future generations will have a different view of society from the one that many have today. human rights are universal and no one, under any circumstances, should violate them. we therefore have a duty to condemn and denounce all racist or xenophobic attitudes so that crimes against human life and dignity come to an end.
in writing. - we are concerned about the growing and unacceptable climate of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes in europe. these phenomena are inseparable from the deepening of neoliberal policies which destroy important social rights and gains, increase insecurity and degrade the living conditions of workers and peoples. the situation of poverty, exclusion and social disintegration is becoming more acute, leading to marginalization, ghettoization and illiteracy. more people are being pushed into the informal economy, to the margins of participation in society. new phenomena of organised crime are also emerging, attracting these excluded groups and also functioning as a social escape. the reintegration and inclusion of these people and groups is crucial for their future and requires a break with the policies in the eu that impede access to education at its various levels, housing, health, and social security. it is equally important to preserve the historical memory of what nazism and fascism were and to denounce all the operations aimed at whitewashing them a little bit throughout the eu, seeking to equate nazism and communism in order to whitewash the former and condemn the latter and the social gains achieved in the socialist countries, which remain alive in the aspirations of the workers and the peoples.
in writing. - i am of the opinion that no form of intolerance and discrimination should be accepted in the european union. it is important that citizens are fully aware of their rights in terms of protection against hate crime. member states shall take all appropriate measures to encourage the reporting of hate crimes and crimes of a racist and xenophobic nature and to ensure adequate protection for persons reporting such crimes and for victims of crimes motivated by racism and xenophobia. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a european parliament resolution on strengthening the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crime, which calls on the ec to support training programmes on preventing and combating discriminatory practices and hate crime for law enforcement authorities and relevant eu agencies, and calls on the ec to create mechanisms to make hate crime visible in the eu, ensuring that prejudice-based offences are punishable and, as such, duly registered and effectively investigated, that offenders are prosecuted and punished and that victims are given appropriate assistance, protection and compensation, thus encouraging victims of hate crimes and witnesses to report incidents.
in writing. - article 21 of the charter prohibits 'discrimination on grounds of sex, race, colour or ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, or sexual orientation'. the resolution calls on the member states to recall the massacres perpetrated in europe on the basis of racism and xenophobia, given the rise in discrimination and hate crimes in the union and the alarming spread of hatred and intolerance in speeches and campaigns by extremist leaders. the eu is founded on the common values of respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law and is based on the promotion of tolerance. parliament therefore called for a number of measures to be taken to strengthen the fight against discrimination: among others, the adoption of the equality directive, the recognition of hate crimes in national and european law, the launch of a roadmap for equality on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, and the call on public figures not to make public statements inciting hatred or stigmatising groups of people on the grounds of their race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation or nationality. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights make it the responsibility of the union to combat and ensure a high level of security by means of measures to prevent racism and xenophobia, and any form of discrimination is prohibited. however, hate crimes are a reality in the eu, as was acknowledged in the 2012 report published by the european agency for fundamental rights. discrimination in europe is mainly related to ethnic origin. i therefore join the proponents of this resolution and urge the member states to be vigilant and to take measures to prevent racism and xenophobia, in particular through educational actions and publicity to citizens about their rights in terms of protection against hate crimes.
in writing. - we are concerned about the growing and unacceptable climate of racism, xenophobia and hate crimes in europe, particularly when these phenomena demonstrate their intrinsic character in the deepening of neoliberal policies which destroy important social rights and gains, increase insecurity and degrade the living conditions of workers and peoples. the situation of poverty, exclusion and social disintegration is becoming more acute, leading to phenomena of marginalisation and ghettoisation, illiteracy, more people being pushed into the informal economy, to the margins of participation in society. new phenomena of organised crime are also emerging, attracting these excluded groups and also functioning as a social escape. the reintegration and inclusion of these people and groups is crucial for their future and requires a break with the policies in the eu that impede access to education at its various levels, to housing and health, to social security. it is equally important to preserve the historical memory of nazism and fascism and to denounce all the operations aimed at their whitewashing, seeking to equate nazism and communism in order to whitewash the former and condemn the latter, trying to hide the social gains achieved, which remain alive in the aspirations of the workers and peoples.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that there are reasons to take the increase in hormonal disorders and diseases in humans more seriously. the endocrine system regulates much of what happens in the body, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt-water balance, and heart function. there is a worrying trend, particularly in relation to human reproductive capacity, and endocrine disruptors are thought to play a determining role. the precautionary principle is and should remain an important pillar of eu chemicals policy. the fact that we don't know everything can't be used as an excuse for inaction. the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment are simply too great. there are currently some 27 000 research reports on endocrine disruptors and their effects on humans and animals, but we continue to see a number of worrying trends.
in writing. - we are surrounded by endocrine disruptors in our daily lives. they are found in food packaging, skin care products, cosmetics, building materials, electronics, furniture and flooring. the endocrine system regulates much of what happens in our bodies, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt-water balance, and heart function. over the past two decades, evidence has been found that indicates the existence of hormonal disorders in humans. the protection of human health is an important component of eu policy (article 35 of the treaty). to this end, it is important that the precautionary principle (article 191 of the treaty) is fully applied. the fact that we don't know everything can't be used as an excuse for inaction. the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment are simply too great. i therefore consider it important to provide for appropriate testing for the identification of endocrine disruptors in current eu legislation, in particular in the classification, labelling and packaging regulation, the reach regulation, the plant protection products regulation, the biocidal products directive and the cosmetics directive.
in writing. − the endocrine system regulates a wide range of important functions, such as reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt and water balance and cardiac function. in the last twenty years there has been an increase in hormonal disorders and diseases, many of which may be associated with exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals. the rapporteur believes that this problem needs to be taken more seriously and, although she stresses the need for more research to better understand the causes of these diseases, she considers it important that the european commission imposes the precautionary principle. the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment from exposure to endocrine disruptors are too serious. we believe that measures should be taken to protect public health while scientific knowledge of both the effects and causes of these properties is being developed. we voted yes.
in writing. − there are reasons to take the increase in hormonal disorders and diseases in humans very seriously. the endocrine system regulates much of what happens in the body, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt-water balance, and heart function. there is a worrying trend, particularly in relation to human reproductive capacity, and endocrine disruptors are thought to play a determining role. much of the debate on endocrine disruptors concerns products and substances in cosmetics, furniture, electronics, construction materials, toys, textiles and food including packaging. it is therefore important that the commission review existing legislation and submit new legislative proposals in these areas in order to protect people from endocrine disrupting substances.
in writing. − this report is based on facts from a number of sources. the conference on endocrine disruptors, held by the commission in brussels in june 2012, provided several valuable input for this report which concludes that there is a need to provide for appropriate testing for the identification of endocrine disruptors in current eu legislation, especially in the classification, labelling and packaging regulation, the reach regulation, the plant protection products regulation, the biocidal products directive and the cosmetics directive. the conclusions and objectives of the report being clear, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − over the past 20 years, there has been a sharp increase in hormone disorders and diseases in humans and wildlife. since the genes have not changed in such a short period of time, this increase can only be explained by external environmental factors. despite the considerable difficulty in establishing a causal relationship between chemicals and hormonal imbalances, exposure to chemicals is a determining factor in adverse effects on human and animal health according to several studies. in the light of the precautionary principle, this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to draw up legislation to ensure the horizontal application of the criteria for identifying known, probable and potential endocrine disruptors, in order to achieve a high level of protection. in this respect, the lack of accurate knowledge should not prevent us from taking health protection measures, and it is important to restrict the use of chemicals with endocrine disrupting properties in products intended for specific target groups, such as skin hygiene products, textile products and toys for specific purposes. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to protect human health and the protection of wildlife and the environment.
in writing. − endocrine disruptors, which are found in cosmetics, textiles and toys, are known to cause diseases of the reproductive system, including deformities and cancers. endocrine disruptors are also responsible for neurological diseases and diabetes. the rapporteur advocates strong monitoring and chemical analysis measures with regard to the use of products containing such disruptors. as this report is aimed at protecting public health and is based largely on scientific research and on the opinions of the world health organization, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in the last twenty years there has been an increase in hormonal disorders and diseases, many of which may be associated with exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals. the rapporteur believes that this problem needs to be taken more seriously and, although she stresses the need for more research to better understand the causes of these diseases, she considers it important that the european commission imposes the precautionary principle. the risks of irreversible damage to humans and the environment from exposure to endocrine disruptors are too serious. we believe that measures should be taken to protect public health while scientific knowledge of both the effects and causes of these properties is being developed.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the european union is at a turning point in employment policy. this not only has a negative impact on the balance of european pension systems, but also leads to labour shortages in the short and medium term. this, despite an eu unemployment rate of around 10%, is already visible and will increase further in the coming years. skilled migration is an important solution to the double dilemma of a shrinking labour force and labour shortages. european citizens have already understood this situation, and they already consider immigrants necessary for the european economy. the objective of the member states must be a qualitative rather than a quantitative immigration policy. today, it is clear that immigration of highly skilled workers will be a challenge. the integration of other eu citizens and third country nationals from migration will be the fundamental social issue of our time.
in writing. − the european union is currently faced with demographic decline, low birth rates and an ageing population. since 2012, the working population in the european union has been decreasing, and without an increase in immigration, it will lose more than 14 million people in the next ten years. the consequences for pension systems and european competitiveness are clear. however, it is clear that immigration must be based on a quality strategy and adapted to the different member states. it is necessary to distinguish between community and non-community immigration policies, in particular in the field of the right to vote for migrants, the right to nationality at birth and labour market and education policies for refugees. the report under discussion has been amended by a majority vote in plenary which does not deal fairly with those issues. so i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for advocating the revision of the eu migration system in order to facilitate the integration of immigrants into the labour market and social security systems. migration of citizens between member states is increasingly frequent and it is therefore necessary to ensure that when a person retires, in whatever country he is, he receives the money to which he is entitled. eu citizens should have the right to transfer their pensions, regardless of the country in which they work, in accordance with the principle of european mobility.
in writing. - the epithet 'old continent' has never made more sense than now. if in the past it was called that because it was the cradle of civilization and the caravels set off from here in search of new worlds, today, with the sharp decline in population, europe has changed from being the 'old continent' to being an aging continent. in fact, our demographic development is negative and we increasingly need to rely on labour from third countries to meet our labour needs. the report by ms nadja hirsch focuses on the integration of migrants, the impact on the labour market and the external dimension of the european union (eu) in the area of social security coordination. the opening of borders under the schengen agreement and the deepening crisis in some countries have led many european citizens to seek better living conditions in a member state other than their own. because we all need everyone, we must promote the integration of migrants, who face many threats, by guaranteeing them access to basic rights: work, health, education, housing and social security. finally, i welcome the proposal to designate 2016 as the year of migration.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to establish a uniform and reciprocal approach to social security coordination. its premises focus on labour market-oriented integration of migrants (labour migration); the importance of skilled migration, with the proposal that member states 'introduce a common european coordination system to identify labour needs and better target labour migration'; and internal mobility as a way of 'filling labour market needs'. in other words, the prevailing view is that immigration policies are determined by the needs of the eu's labour force, without abandoning the traditional repressive view. a strong focus on circular migration; the creation of a common european consular service in eu delegations and member states' embassies; the eeas as responsible for coordinating the external dimension of migration policy; a common legal framework to reduce illegal migration; and the effective implementation of the single authorisation directive and the blue card directive are other aspects of the report. the positive aspects include references to women and gender issues, education and training, combating discrimination and racism, the transferability and validity of social rights and pensions, among others.
in writing. - skilled migration is an important solution to the double dilemma of the decline in the active population and labour shortages. european citizens have already understood this situation, and eurobarometer polls indicate that 70% of citizens consider immigrants necessary for the european economy. the commission and the member states should therefore strengthen cooperation with third countries in the area of circular migration and integrate them into negotiations and agreements. again, the reflection must be global, and it is imperative to create links between labour market needs, circular migration, development policy and foreign policy. this should lead to a smart circular migration strategy, providing the resources and legal safeguards and conditions necessary to create safe jobs and prevent illegal immigration.
in writing. the european union is at a turning point in employment policy. since 2012, the working population has been declining for the first time in peacetime in the 20th and 21st centuries, and without increased immigration, it will lose more than 14 million people in the next ten years. in this context, it is inevitable to devise an immigration policy that promotes european competitiveness while also fostering the integration of immigrants into the host communities. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that this immigration policy must be based on a qualitative rather than necessarily a quantitative approach. it is now clear that immigration of highly skilled workers will be a challenge and that the integration of other eu citizens and third country nationals from migration will be the fundamental social issue of our time. i agree with these objectives and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the working population in the eu is declining and, without immigration, will lose more than 14 million people in the next ten years. this has a negative impact on the balance of european pension systems and will lead to a shortage of skilled labour in the future, especially in the field of information technology. this dilemma of shrinking labour force and labour shortages can be solved by skilled migration. this will require that qualifications acquired in the country of origin are recognised in an appropriate way and that migrants are no longer viewed with suspicion. integration into the labour market and society requires language learning, familiarity with the legal, political and social systems, customs and traditions of the host country, but also requires that host countries promote access to the labour market, institutions, education, social security and health care. i voted in favour of this report, which among other measures proposes the creation of an inter-service group for integration and the introduction of a common european system for identifying labour market needs.
in writing. − the demographic decline europe is experiencing needs a clear response in the context of a holistic policy of integration of migrants and their insertion into the labour market. if there is no increase in immigration, europe will in the long run be challenging its pension system and in the short and medium term will be witnessing a decline in skilled workers. a clear, differentiated and tailor-made policy for each member state targeting skilled migration is urgently needed. in view of these facts, i support this report which proposes a set of initiatives, namely the creation of an integration group and/or agency, the creation of a network for integration at local and regional level, the introduction of a voluntary european points system, the development of an international skills programme with standard jobs and profiles, the strengthening of cooperation with third countries on circular migration and better management of external social security coordination. we must create a genuine culture of integration of migrants in the member states, because the benefits they bring to the union go beyond the economic dimension.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to establish a uniform and reciprocal eu approach to the eu's external dimension in social security coordination. according to the report, so far, social security coordination between the eu and third countries has taken two forms: (i) national approach, whereby member states make bilateral agreements with certain third countries; (ii) more uniform application for social security coordination with third countries, across the eu. the report highlights as positive the encouragement of education and training, the defence of the principle that people who have lived and studied in a country and master its language are already integrated, the fight against discrimination and racism, the right to vote and multiculturalism, the principle that social rights and pensions should be transferable and remain valid in the event of return. however, we disagree with the idea that internal mobility should serve the needs of the labour market, the creation of a common european consular service in eu delegations and member states' embassies, the implementation of the single authorisation directive and the blue card directive.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by deploring the lack of information from several member states, which hinders a reliable forecast of mortality from mesothelioma in europe, and noting that according to world health organisation (who) data, between 20 000 and 30 000 cases of asbestos-related diseases are reported annually in the european union alone and that it is estimated that more than 300 000 citizens will die of mesothelioma by 2030 in the eu. this makes information and training for citizens of the utmost importance. i would also point out that all types of asbestos-related diseases, such as lung cancer and pleural mesothelioma, as well as other types of cancer caused not only by inhaling fibres from the air but also by ingesting water containing these fibres from asbestos pipes, have been recognised as a health risk and that it may take several decades (in some cases more than 40 years) for these diseases to manifest themselves. however, i welcome the verdict of a court in turin on 13 february 2012 on the deadly consequences of asbestos.
in writing. − exposure to asbestos is a threat to the general population and causes recognised diseases. the number of cases of asbestos-related diseases in the european union is between 20 000 and 30 000 per year according to the world health organisation. despite the ban in place, millions of tonnes of asbestos remain in buildings and there are no records to indicate their location and the amount of asbestos to be removed. thus, many construction workers and building users remain without protection against high levels of asbestos exposure. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european commission, in collaboration with the member states, to propose a directive on minimum requirements for the vocational training of construction and maintenance workers.
in writing. this report is about the health risks in the workplace associated with exposure to asbestos and the prospects for eliminating all existing asbestos. several scientific studies have shown that exposure to asbestos causes some serious diseases, including lung cancer and pleural mesothelioma, which can take more than 40 years to develop. as has been recognized by some courts, there are no minimum levels of asbestos to which a person can be exposed with a guarantee that he will not be contaminated. these facts have led to the removal of this product from all applications in both public and private buildings throughout europe and to a ban on its importation. it is also a product that does not disappear with time and that needs to be subjected to an inerting process, since we must not leave this sad legacy to future generations. i voted in favour of this report because we cannot allow a product which can have deadly consequences for humans to continue to be used or to be stored in places not intended for hazardous waste, instead of being subjected to a process of deactivating its fibres.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report by the committee on employment and social affairs which seeks to respond to the calls of the trade unions for a campaign on the use of asbestos. although there is a general ban in the eu on the production, import and manufacture of products containing asbestos, this deadly substance is still present in public and private buildings, public transport systems and everyday products. the main demands of the trade unions are to develop action plans to remove existing asbestos safely, with the aim of achieving an asbestos-free europe by 2023. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work, and the protection of workers' rights to health and safety at work. the report defends all the aspects advocated by the trade unions, making recommendations to the eu and the member states for the action plan, always on the basis of cooperation between the commission, the member states, the social partners and the interested parties. the action plan shall be detailed, including a comprehensive set of relevant recommendations. we voted in favour.
in writing. − all types of asbestos are dangerous and their harmful impact has been documented and regulated. most of the adverse health effects of inhaling asbestos fibres occur decades after exposure. i therefore consider it necessary to develop models for monitoring asbestos in private and public buildings, including residential and non-residential buildings, land, infrastructure, logistics facilities and pipelines, and to develop models for monitoring asbestos fibres in the air at workplaces, in built-up areas and in landfills, and fibres in drinking water supplied by fibre-cement pipes. only then will it be possible to combat the health risks posed by asbestos.
in writing. − this report on the health risks at work associated with exposure to asbestos and the prospects for eliminating all existing asbestos sets out measures for the effective implementation of the eu asbestos ban. in fact, despite the ban on the use of asbestos, it is still present in numerous ships, trains, machinery, bunkers, tunnels, galleries, pipes in public and private water distribution networks and, in particular, in buildings, including a large number of public and private buildings. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − estimates predict that by 2030, more than 300,000 citizens will die of mesothelioma, just one of several asbestos-related diseases. since asbestos fibres are practically indestructible over time, it is necessary to carry out the organised elimination of their presence in the pipes of public and private water distribution networks and, in particular, in buildings. the report therefore urges the commission to: develop models for the detection and registration, monitoring and control of asbestos; assess the impact and carry out a cost-benefit analysis of plans for the safe removal of asbestos from public buildings; provide information and guidance to encourage private building owners to carry out effective surveys and risk assessments; and disseminate good practice on guidelines and procedures for the recognition of asbestos-related diseases. it also called on the member states not to place the burden of proof on asbestos victims and to establish more stringent rights to compensation and called for the criminal liability of offenders to be enforced. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in 1977, a group of experts commissioned by the european commission concluded: "there is no theoretical evidence of an exposure limit below which there is no risk of developing cancer", soon after the first european legislation against asbestos emerges. it is therefore possible to say that asbestos is virtually banned throughout the eu today. despite the ban on asbestos in the eu, there is no effective monitoring system for asbestos in transport and infrastructure dismantling and eastern european member states have a high number of cancers due to the number of workers in almost daily contact with asbestos/asbestos-containing minerals and their lack of knowledge on how to protect themselves when exposed to them. i therefore support the rapporteur in urging the authorities to safely remove asbestos left in public buildings and to recognise the need for additional legislation on the recognition and compensation of occupational diseases involving contact with this mineral.
in writing. this is an own-initiative report by the employment committee which attempts to respond to the calls of the trade unions for a campaign on the use of asbestos. although there is a general ban in the eu on the production, import and manufacture of products containing asbestos, this deadly substance is still present in public and private buildings, public transport systems and everyday products. the main demand of the trade unions is the development of action plans to remove existing asbestos safely, with the aim of achieving an asbestos-free europe by 2023. to this end, they call for a complete register of products containing asbestos, improved health and safety at work, training of workers handling asbestos and recognition and compensation for asbestos victims. we consider this action plan to be urgent and we hope that the adoption of this report will have practical consequences in a short time.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling that the european parliament considers that the diversity of enterprises should be clearly laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and proposes that mutual societies be included in article 54 thereof. i would also point out that a combination of strategies and measures is needed to create a level playing field for mutuals, including a european status that equally gives them the possibility to add a european dimension to their organisation and activities, giving them appropriate legal instruments to facilitate their cross-border and transnational activities. in this respect, mutual societies may operate throughout the union in accordance with their specific governance. i believe that a statute for european mutual societies will create a voluntary system in the form of an optional instrument which will enable mutual societies to operate in different member states and even to enter countries where they do not currently exist. i therefore insist that european mutual societies be considered as a european legal form with a specific character for the union.
in writing. - since 2001, the ep has consistently called for the adoption of a european legal framework for mutual societies in the union, in order to overcome the difficulties currently faced by mutual societies and to facilitate their crossborder activities. mutual societies make a decisive contribution to the social economy by combining cost-effectiveness and solidarity, providing affordable healthcare, social benefits and insurance services to some 160 million european citizens and employing more than 350 000 people in the eu. however, without a european mutual statute, it is difficult to implement it, as there are huge discrepancies in legislation, operation and taxation between member states, including member states that do not even have a legal framework for mutual societies. i regret that the commission withdrew its initial proposal in 2006, allowing reciprocity to continue to be ignored in the internal market, and i congratulate mrs regina bastos on her report. i call on the commission to present a new initiative to create an ambitious and innovative european statute for the protection of workers and their families exercising their right to free movement, which will make it easier for mutual societies to carry out crossborder activities and enable them to benefit fully from the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that mutual societies should play a more prominent role in the economies of the member states, given their potential to contribute to more inclusive growth. it is necessary to create a level playing field for mutuals, including a european status that gives them the possibility to add a european dimension to their organisation and activities.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has brought about a significant increase in the performance of enterprises and social institutions, giving them a visibility they did not have before. in fact, they are the first and sometimes the only response to situations of great economic need. the european social sector has some 350,000 institutions providing welfare services (mainly health and family support) to over 260 million europeans, many of whom live in areas far from urban centres and this is the only support they have. the report by mr luigi berlinguer recommends that the commission adopt a regulation on the statute for a european mutual fund which will make it possible to remove all the crossborder obstacles to its activity throughout the single market and allow the crossborder merger of two or more mutual funds in order to improve their performance and gain in scale. i voted in favour because i believe that this is an excellent initiative which will boost the social economy by providing new services, creating jobs at local level and promoting solidarity. the new services will not compete with existing ones but will contribute to diversity, which is essential for growth.
in writing. - mutual societies mutual assistance societies (social security services complementary to or integrated with compulsory social protection schemes) or insurance mutuals (which may cover all types of risk to property and life), and may also in some member states provide services in other areas such as housing or credit undoubtedly play an important social role. the report calls on the commission to submit one or more legislative proposals to enable the creation of a voluntary scheme, in the form of an optional instrument, allowing mutual societies to operate at european and cross-border level. issues such as crossborder mergers of mutual societies or the creation of european mutual groups raise complex questions, which the report does not address. despite some positive recommendations, such as that mutual societies should not replace compulsory social security schemes, or that the regulation should not cover other areas of law, such as labour law, taxation, etc., potential dangers are not excluded, especially in the current political and economic context and in the context of the neoliberal policies prevailing in the eu.
in writing. − i believe that a combination of strategies and measures is needed to create a level playing field for mutuals, including a european status that equally gives them the possibility to add a european dimension to their organisation and activities, giving them appropriate legal instruments to facilitate their cross-border and transnational activities, so that mutuals can operate throughout the union in accordance with their specific governance. a statute for european mutual societies will create a voluntary system in the form of an optional instrument which will enable mutual societies to operate in different member states, and even to be introduced in countries where they do not currently exist. i therefore believe it necessary that european mutual societies should be considered as a european legal form with a specific character.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the berlinguer report which recommends that the commission should create a european mutual statute for three main reasons: (a) mutual societies play a major role in the social economy of the union which cannot be ignored, providing health care and social services to over 160 million people and employing over 350 000 people; (b) the absence of a european statute for mutual societies has been an obstacle to their full development in the internal market of the union, and it is therefore important to provide mutual societies with a european legal form which eliminates their disadvantage compared with other forms of undertaking which already have european statutes; (c) finally, it is important to safeguard the mutual societies which, as a characteristic form of organisation (in compliance with the mutualist principles), have shown the greatest resilience to the recent financial crisis, without prejudice to ensuring the conditions for their competitiveness with their commercial counterparts.
in writing. − the european status of mutual societies is essential for better integration into the single market, better recognition of the specificities of mutualism and enhancing its capacity to contribute to the achievement of the growth and employment objectives of the 2020 strategy. i would stress that it is very important that this statute should be aware of the differences between the mutual societies of each member state, since the mutual societies also reflect the size of each country, and a system which does not reduce the size of each mutual society may result in the disappearance of the mutual society system in small and medium-sized countries, as is the case in portugal.
in writing. − mutual societies are voluntary associations of natural or legal persons which, operating under democratic management and in accordance with the principle of solidarity, aim to meet the needs of their members at the expense of obtaining a return on investment. the eu, in view of the important role of mutual societies in the economy and society of the member states, especially in the achievement of strategic union objectives such as healthcare, long-term care, social protection and pensions, should provide such associations with a european status that allows them to operate on an equal footing with other forms of business in the union, facilitating the development of their cross-border activities and enabling them to benefit from the internal market. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to establish precise and clear conditions for the creation of a new category of european mutual funds.
in writing. − the commission withdrew its draft proposal for a regulation on the european mutual statute in march 2006, and the european parliament has in recent years adopted several resolutions calling for a regulation on the subject and expressing its preference for a european statute. today the european parliament has asked the commission to submit rapidly, following the detailed recommendations in the annex, on the basis of article 352 or possibly article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, one or more proposals enabling mutual societies to operate at european and cross-border level. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this report aims to establish a european legal status for mutual societies in order to enable them to operate at european and cross-border level by creating transnational mutual societies. the rapporteur considers that the european statute will be a voluntary instrument complementary to the national legal provisions applicable to mutual societies and will not affect the independence, autonomy and individual participation of its members. however, we do not see the objective that the status of mutual societies should encourage the development of the eu's internal market, i.e. a market which promotes the free movement of capital, goods and services within the framework of capitalist competition. nor do we subscribe to the principle underlying the establishment of a european legal status, namely the harmonization of commercial and civil law.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a full part in the fight against terrorism. i urge the egyptian government to use this period to establish an inclusive political process based on consensus and common ownership through a true national dialogue with meaningful participation of all democratic political forces and i urge all political forces in egypt to work together in this regard. i believe it is our duty as the eu and its member states to continue to support and assist the egyptian authorities, political parties and civil society in their efforts to achieve this goal, welcoming the invitation by the egyptian authorities to the eu to witness the next legislative elections, despite the cancellation of the elections. however, i do express some concern at the increase in violence against women, in particular female protesters and women's rights activists, and the failure of the authorities to prevent and condemn violence or to arrest those responsible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the egyptian authorities to ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to ensure more effectively the rule of law and to contribute to the democratic stabilisation of the country. the recent loss of women's rights in egypt is worrying. the egyptian authorities must give due attention to the issue and condemn all forms of violence and aggression targeting women and promoting their political participation, reversing the current negative trend.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled in replacement of the proposals from the ppe, greens/efa, ecr, alde and s&d groups, deals with the political, economic and social situation in egypt. egypt, one of the european union's partners in the southern mediterranean, has recently experienced a turbulent but modern era, which has become known as the 'arab spring'. the revolution that began about two years ago, and which saw the active participation of women in the search for equal status, seemed to be moving towards democracy. however, several bloody episodes have overshadowed this process and the presidential elections of may and june 2012, considered free and fair, have not brought a climate of stability to the region. the conflicts are continuing, with several dead and many injured, and there is a constitutional disorganization with legislative elections scheduled for april. as a country with a key role in the middle east - as demonstrated in the israeli-palestinian conflict - the european union must assume its responsibilities at international level in monitoring the country's transition to democracy, in particular by monitoring the next electoral process.
in writing. - despite the apparent contradictions in the text and some conflicting positions, 'strong support for reforms aimed at democracy' prevails. the majority in the european parliament is thus trying to put a lid on a constitutional process which is being contested by various egyptian political and social forces. a constitution that attacks the rights of workers for the benefit of capital; that does not guarantee the rights of women and children, the right to education, health and housing and gives the head of state absolute powers, making him a constitutional dictator. the current process in egypt and this resolution clearly demonstrate the hypocrisy and class interests which the majority of this parliament is defending. it is the interests of big capital and the big powers that prevail, as is clearly shown by the proposal to establish a free trade agreement with the eu, the pressure to sign a memorandum with the imf and the intensification of the anti-people policies that these two instruments imply. recent events in egypt demonstrate the broad popular mobilization, the courage, persistence and determination of the egyptian people to continue to fight and overcome repression and political persecution. they can count on our solidarity.
in writing. - egypt is a key partner of the european union in the southern mediterranean. political, economic and social developments in this country have important consequences for the whole region. the egyptian authorities should seek to ensure full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, freedom of the press and media, women's rights, freedom of religion, conscience and thought, protection of minorities and non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, as well as to ensure the rule of law, the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary, the fight against impunity and fair treatment, as essential components of a free and democratic society. the eu must make every effort to stabilise egypt in order to keep that region free from any kind of diplomatic incident.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the eu's full support for increased cooperation with egypt, both in the context of the association agreement and its action plans, the successful continuation of the eu-egypt working group, regular dialogues on human rights, increased trade cooperation, improved mobility of egyptians, in particular students to the eu, and the negotiation of a comprehensive and deep free trade agreement. all these measures can be decisive for the positive development of the situation in egypt.
in writing. − the analysis of the current political context in the country gives rise to the present motion for a resolution calling on the high representative in egypt and the commission to develop, in a practical and clear way, a principle of 'more for more' collaboration, with a particular focus on civil society, women's rights and minority rights. this cooperation depends on the safeguarding of the necessary conditions and objectives, namely respect for rights, freedoms and guarantees and the promotion of democratic reforms, the failure to comply with which will result in the dissolution of the undertaking entered into by the signatory parties. the egyptian government should therefore respect its commitments and the eu should withdraw any budgetary support to the egyptian authorities if the necessary progress is not made in this area. the resolution takes human trafficking in sinai, the port said killings, the supreme constitutional court's decisions finding the 2012 parliamentary elections unconstitutional, and the future referendum for parliamentary elections in egypt, with particular gravity. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the arab republic of egypt has been undergoing profound socio-political changes since the fall of the regime of muhammad hosni el sayed mubarak. however, the changes that have taken place, while positive, have led to a rising tide of violence in which women are involved, with clear violations of human rights and women's rights. this wave of violence, which i strongly oppose, is accompanied by restrictions on freedom of belief and religion (affecting mainly coptic christians) and the right to peaceful demonstration. in addition, the breakdown in dialogue between the government and the opposition parties, which has resulted in political deadlock, has led to the rapid economic deterioration of the country, affecting one of the main "engines" of the economy, tourism. i therefore join the proponents of this resolution and urge the european and egyptian authorities to work together to put egypt on a path to the socioeconomic development the egyptian people rightly desire.
in writing. - despite the apparent contradictions in the text and some conflicting positions, strong support for reforms aimed at democracy prevails. the majority of meps want to override a constitutional process that is rejected by several egyptian political and social forces, which consider that it attacks the rights of workers, peasants and other working classes for the benefit of capital, considering that this constitution does not guarantee the rights of women and children, the right to education, health and housing, and gives the head of state absolute powers. the majority of the ep is mitigating a process in which the muslim brotherhood is trying to establish a religious fascist state that turns criminal fanatics into guardians of the constitution. the current process in egypt and this resolution clearly demonstrate the hypocrisy and class interests that the majority of the ep defends, as is clearly evident with the proposal to establish a free trade agreement with the eu, the pressure for the signing of a memorandum with the imf and the intensification of the anti-people policies that these two instruments imply. recent events in egypt demonstrate the broad popular mobilization, the courage, persistence and determination of the egyptian people to continue to fight and overcome repression and political persecution. they can count on our solidarity.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by condemning the dprk's nuclear tests and missile activities. it must refrain from further provocative actions, suspend all activities related to its ballistic missile programme and abandon all existing nuclear programmes in a total and irreversible manner. i call on the dprk to sign and ratify without delay the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. i also regret that the dprk has terminated the non-aggression pact with the republic of korea, suspended its red line with seoul and closed the common border post, putting its frontline troops on alert for possible war. furthermore, i express my deep concern at the deterioration of the human rights situation in the dprk, which has been described by the un special rapporteurs on north korea, past and present, as a separate category, since the violations of human rights in that state are flagrant, widespread and systematic and can probably be seen as crimes against humanity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'nuclear threat and human rights in north korea' (dprk) for strongly condemning the nuclear tests and missile activities of the dprk and considering that the dprk should refrain from further provocative actions and suspend all activities related to ballistic missiles and abandon all existing nuclear programmes, with a view to ensuring regional stability and improving the well-being of its people, in full respect of human rights.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. this is not the first time that we have looked at the political situation in north korea and the constant violation of human rights in that country. north korea remains one of the most isolated countries in the world, flanked by the chinese giant that is giving cover to its mischief. the dictatorial regime, which is investing everything in a sickly war exhibitionism, is still determined to strengthen its armaments with nuclear and missile tests, is a threat to world peace and keeps the population in dire need and dependent on external aid. i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the north korean regime for violating the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and calling on the people's republic of china to exert its diplomatic influence on north korea so that it will comply with the recommendations of the un security council and end the nuclear arms race and the persecution of the families of all those who decide to leave the country.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the peaceful settlement of the conflict on the korean peninsula, with its reunification - as is the expressed will of the two parties directly concerned and involved in the negotiating process - requires the existence of guarantees of non-aggression, denuclearisation and the end of foreign military bases and forces on the korean peninsula, in particular the us, which maintains a contingent of approximately 30 000 troops in the republic of korea (south). these are the questions which are unfortunately absent from this resolution. that's not their purpose. the hypocrisy of those who, possessing the largest arsenals of nuclear weapons, promote their modernization and installation outside their territory, have nuclear weapons in their bases and maritime fleets, capable of launching a nuclear attack in a very short time, and reaffirm in their military doctrine the possibility of using nuclear weapons, while at the same time criticizing another state for possessing them, is manifest. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process.
in writing. - we must condemn the dprk's nuclear tests and missile activities. these provocative actions must be immediately suspended, as well as all activities related to its ballistic missile programme, by fully and irreversibly abandoning all existing nuclear programmes of the dprk. we must make every effort to ensure that the dprk signs and ratifies the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. this position of the dprk is a serious threat to the peace of the region and should be condemned at all levels, and the un should determine severe sanctions if the dprk does not cease all these activities.
in writing. − this resolution condemns north korea for its launch on 12 december 2012 using ballistic missile technology, and further for its nuclear test conducted on 12 february 2013, which is in clear violation of international obligations under un security council resolutions and poses a serious threat to international peace and security. following the official statement by north korea announcing that it reserves the right to carry out pre-emptive nuclear attacks, the eu now condemns such acts which only contribute to the growing isolation and impoverishment of its people. parliament therefore supported the appointment of a commission of inquiry on north korea, as proposed by japan. the european parliament, as a defender of human rights and democracy, considers the humanitarian situation in the country alarming, which is ruled by an executive that does not respect human rights, does not allow political opposition, free and fair elections or free media. it also expressed concern at the food situation in the country and called on the commission to maintain the humanitarian aid programmes. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the dprk government insists on destabilising and threatening regional security through the successive ballistic and nuclear tests it has been conducting over several years. in an attempt to justify and definitively consolidate the transition of power to the son of the eternal general secretary of the workers' party of korea, the dprk has cut off all communication channels with the republic of korea and the usa, threatening both with nuclear attacks. the militarization of the dprk economy as a result of the juche idea (the official ideology of the workers' party of korea) has led to the poverty, hunger and isolation of the korean people (around 10% of the dprk population) by allocating economic and agricultural resources to the korean people's army. the dprk also commits consistent human rights violations in the form of forced labour, collective punishment, 're-education' camps and torture. i join the rapporteurs in calling on all actors, including the people's republic of china, a member of the six party talks and the dprk's main ally and trading partner, to use all mechanisms to persuade the dprk to re-establish dialogue and to abandon military exercises and threats against the republic of korea and its allies.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, beginning by calling for its rapid operationalisation and implementation, which will strengthen relations between the union and china. i also welcome the commitments made, particularly in relation to the negotiation of an investment agreement and the regular dialogue on defence and security issues. i believe that relations between the eu and china, both economic and trade, and in cultural and social matters, can be one of the main factors for the development and improvement of both societies and therefore i see this cooperation as essential to the interests of both sides. on the other hand, while noting that china has made significant social progress in recent decades, i nevertheless look forward to the swift implementation of the repeated calls for democratization and political reforms within the chinese communist party by the new party leadership, considering that only effective political reforms towards the definition of inclusive, democratic and accountable institutions, reflecting china's ethnic, religious, political and social diversity, will pave the way for the construction of sustainable growth and stability and curb the semi-independence of authoritarian leaders at the provincial, district and local levels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eu-china relations, as i believe that the eu should continue the constructive dialogue with china and continue to encourage the necessary reforms in the field of human and social rights, the environment and the fight against climate change.
in writing. - the governments of the great powers, in order to maintain territorial cohesion, usually exercise power in a dictatorial way. these are societies that operate on the basis of fear rather than freedom and responsibility and for which democracy is a mirage. the european union (eu), with its long tradition of democratic coexistence and respect for human rights, has a very important mission to carry out in relation to china, as this country is a very important trading partner of the eu. at a time when new chinese rulers are taking office for a five-year term and china is playing an increasing role in the world economy, it is the appropriate time to demand that the chinese authorities review their conduct with regard to respect for the primacy of freedom and democracy. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr bastiaan belder on eu-china relations because we must use existing cooperation to make the chinese authorities aware of the need to give voice to their people, not to persecute or silence critics of the regime and to allow the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. i support the european policy towards china to demand greater respect for minorities, particularly tibetans, religious freedom and internet access.
in writing. - there is a lot that separates us from the content of this report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the resolution calls on china to join the chorus of interference and disregard for the un charter and international law that marks the action of the us, the major powers of the eu and nato, by revising its policy of "non-interference in the internal affairs of countries". the majority political forces in the european parliament do not accept that a member of the un security council, china and also russia , will block the ambitious aggression against syria by the nato powers and/or their allies. and it goes further, pointing the finger at china for its military spending, while downplaying the real military threat the us has developed in its encirclement of china, as well as the growing tensions with a japan mired in a deep economic crisis that has dragged on for over a decade and a strategic ally of the us. the position expressed by this report and the geostrategic interests revolving around china highlight the historic ambition of the political transition in this country and the alignment of this great economic power with the global political system.
in writing. − the eu is the first destination for chinese exports, which increased by 39.5% between 2009 and 2010, with china being the eu's second largest trading partner. the increasing development of china's economy and its accession to the wto imply increased responsibilities to play a full and positive role in the world economic order. china joined the wto in 2001 and must respect wto rules by liberalizing trade and opening up its markets. however, their efforts in this direction are still not sufficient. china does not meet the market economy criteria as defined by the wto. the commission should apply the principle of reciprocity to the eu's common trade policy with developed and emerging countries, such as china, in order to restore fair competition. eu-china relations will develop on the basis of partnership and mutual benefit, not on the basis of fierce competition. relations between the eu and china, both economic and trade, and in cultural and social matters, can be one of the main factors for the development and improvement of both societies and we must therefore regard this cooperation as essential to the interests of both sides.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its content in general, of which i would highlight the programmes to facilitate mobility between china and the eu. such mobility is important as people-to-people contacts can play a key role in better mutual understanding between china and the eu and between china and some of its other partners, such as the us.
in writing. − in order to strengthen eu-china cooperation, the eu-china partnership should be based on common interests and mutual understanding and seek synergies between the europe 2020 strategy and china's five year plan. unfortunately, the trade imbalances between the eu and china reflect differences in the social, economic and democratic model, and the absence or low respect for certain rights (in particular civil and political rights) does not contribute to sustainable growth or to china's future socioeconomic stability. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission also called on china to respect minimum social standards, as laid down by the international labour organisation, and said that the eu should not allow access to the market for goods produced by child labour or in facilities which breach international standards. i voted in favour.
in writing. − eu-prc relations have been deepening and intensifying over the years, reflecting the growing economic and political weight that the prc has been acquiring, especially after the implementation of 'socialism with chinese characteristics' and the 'reform and opening-up' programme implemented by deng xiaoping. the prc has become a key partner of the eu in finding answers to major global concerns as well as developing opportunities that boost the growth of both economies. however, the prc still has a long way to go in terms of the implementation and protection of human rights and economic growth that reduces socio-economic inequalities across the various administrative divisions, both important pillars for the development of a 'harmonious society' which should never be achieved through a policy of 'stability at all costs'. while the goc is making great efforts in the economic development of the xīzàng (tibet) and xīnjiāng autonomous regions, it should refrain from diluting the cultures of the ethnic groups officially recognised by the prc itself; the commission has not established that the goc has been able to demonstrate that the goc has been able to provide the goc with sufficient evidence to support its claim that the goc has not been able to provide the goc with sufficient evidence to support its claim that the goc has not been able to provide the goc with sufficient evidence to support its claim that the goc has not been able to provide the goc with sufficient evidence to support its claim that the goc has not been able to provide the goc with sufficient evidence to support its claim.
in writing. - there are many points of disagreement in this report. firstly, by openly interfering in china's internal affairs, which throughout the text takes on unacceptable aspects of disrespect for an independent and sovereign country, its people and the paths it chooses for itself. the european parliament's resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that all its citizens are protected. the political forces that dominate the ep's decisions do not accept that a member of the un security council, china and also russia , will block the ambitious aggression against syria by the nato powers and/or their allies. and it goes further, pointing the finger at china for its military spending, while downplaying the real military threat the us has developed in its encirclement of china, as well as the growing tensions with a japan mired in a deep economic crisis. the position expressed by this report and the geostrategic interests that revolve around china highlight the historical ambition of the political transition in this country.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, considering that a joint investigation team (jit) from europol has revealed the existence of widespread manipulation of football match results over the last few years, with 680 matches considered suspicious worldwide, 380 of them in europe, and has identified a vast network of manipulation in the sports world, with 425 suspects and 50 people arrested. taking this into account, i urge member states to strengthen law enforcement cooperation at european level through joint investigation teams and cooperation between judicial authorities, stressing the need to introduce and effectively implement measures to combat illegal and anonymous betting websites. i think that information should be exchanged about people who are involved in the targeting of players for the purpose of fixing results, or who have been convicted for that reason. i also think that it is necessary for the member states to set up regulatory bodies to identify and combat illegal practices in the field of sports betting and to collect, exchange, analyse and disseminate evidence of match fixing, sports fraud and other forms of corruption in sport, within and outside europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it urges the commission to develop a coordinated approach in the fight against addiction to results and organised crime. it is necessary for sports organisations to adopt a zero tolerance policy with regard to corruption. to this end, the commission's contribution can play an important role, in particular in the exchange of information between these regulatory bodies, with regard to illegal or suspicious activities in the field of sports betting.
in writing. − the widespread availability of the internet and the resulting globalisation have brought added problems for authorities who cannot keep up with technological innovations that are not always used for the best purposes. gambling addiction is a calamity that wrecks many families, develops illicit activities, and involves organized criminal groups. in the field of sport, although the teams whose matches attract the most spectators are located in europe, the appetite for betting on the part of people from emerging economies such as china, russia, brazil and india, with high purchasing power, makes mafia groups seek to manipulate the sports results at the level of european competitions. in fact, the figures recently released by the european police office (europol) are frightening: 680 games considered suspicious worldwide (380 in europe) and 425 people investigated, resulting in the arrest of 50 suspected corruption in sport. because we need to moralize the sports sector and put an end to the widespread manipulation of football match results, i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and i urge all sports authorities to adopt a code of conduct based on values and to implement a zero tolerance policy on corruption.
in writing. the aim of the resolution is to strengthen the fight against performance addiction in sport. it is proposed to develop a coordinated approach against organised crime, with sports organisations, police and judicial authorities at national level and online gaming operators. sports organisations are suggested to create a code of conduct for all involved, setting out the dangers of match fixing, including a clear prohibition on match fixing with penalties to be applied, and prohibiting betting on their own games as well as an obligation to report any approach or knowledge of it, linked to match fixing, together with an appropriate protection mechanism for whistleblowers. it refers to the need for member states to strengthen law enforcement cooperation through joint investigation teams and cooperation between judicial authorities. the protection of the integrity of sport begins with sport education from childhood and the training of athletes, both amateur and professional, with a view to raising awareness of the values of integrity, fair play and respect for others.
in writing. − the recent discovery by europol of a set of sponsored games has led to the need for a number of legislative measures. thus, players, coaches, referees, and presidents of sports clubs must abide by a code of conduct that lays out the dangers of match fixing, includes a prohibition of this practice, and stipulates the penalties to be applied. all eu countries should explicitly include the issue of addiction to results in their national criminal law, providing for common minimum sanctions and providing for any omissions. sports organisations, national police and judicial authorities and online gambling operators should step up efforts to combat sports addiction. the commission should coordinate these efforts at european level and create a platform for dialogue and exchange of information and best practice. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in this resolution, the european parliament urges the council to pursue, in a rapid and ambitious manner, discussions on the proposal for a new directive on money laundering in order to address the use of online sports betting for money laundering purposes. i voted in favour of this ambition.
in writing. − the findings of the investigations by europol and commission teams revealed widespread manipulation of game results, with a total of 680 suspected games worldwide. this number is just the tip of the iceberg of a vast network of manipulation installed in the sports world. parliament considered that the addiction to results is a form of crime that generates high revenues but has extremely low conviction and detention rates, and is therefore used by criminal organisations in money laundering and drug and human trafficking, and called on the commission to encourage member states to explicitly include the issue of addiction to results in their national criminal law and to set up a specialised unit responsible for law enforcement.
in writing. − a joint europol investigation team has revealed widespread manipulation of football match results over the last few years, with 680 matches considered suspicious worldwide, 380 of them in europe, and has identified a vast network of manipulation in the sports environment, with 425 suspects and 50 people arrested. considering that transparency, accountability and democracy at the level of sports organisations are essential conditions for the sporting movement to play a role with a minimum chance of success in the fight against performance addiction and sports fraud, parliament called on the commission to develop a coordinated approach to combating performance addiction and organised crime by coordinating the efforts of the main stakeholders and by creating a platform for dialogue and exchange of information and best practice. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the aim of the resolution is to strengthen the fight against performance addiction in sport by each of the stakeholders and to develop a coordinated approach against organised crime, with sport organisations, police and judicial authorities at national level and online gaming operators. the measures proposed here follow the principle of zero tolerance for corruption, suggesting that sports organisations create a code of conduct for all involved that sets out the dangers of match fixing, includes a clear prohibition on the manipulation of results with penalties to be applied and prohibits betting on their own games and an obligation to report any approach or knowledge thereof in conjunction with an appropriate protection mechanism for whistleblowers. the protection of the integrity of sport begins with sport education from childhood and the training of athletes, both amateur and professional, with a view to raising awareness of the values of integrity, fair play and respect for others. the resolution does not, however, mention the importance of public sports facilities, which allow the democratization of sports, or the importance of physical education in school curricula.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that cotton is vital to the union's development, trade and agriculture objectives. i also believe that the union's accession to the ccia would strengthen cooperation on cotton issues and that the union's action would become more consistent and increase its influence in defining the 'cotton agenda'. however, environmental needs must be noted, calling here on all stakeholders in the cotton sector to work together without delay through the ccia in order to minimise environmental degradation, including water footprints and the use of pesticides and insecticides. i would stress that these unsustainable production methods undermine the conditions for cotton production. at the same time, i stress the importance of addressing violations of workers' human rights and environmental pollution throughout the cotton value chain, including in the textile and clothing sectors. i therefore believe that only a coordinated framework addressing the causes of child and forced labour can be implemented on a long-term basis and can lead to a more sustainable cotton value chain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'world cotton value chain', as i considered it necessary to respond adequately to the persistent problems in this sector, in terms of environmental degradation, market distortions and human rights violations, including situations of forced labour and child labour.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the world of the cotton industry. cotton is a raw material which is considered to be universal and essential for agricultural activity, for processing enterprises and for world trade. although european production represents only 1% of world production, it employs some 100 000 people, mainly in greece and spain. despite its low production, the eu is responsible for using 50% of global production and is a net exporter of this product whose european industry employs over 1.8 million. the main problems facing the sector worldwide are the scourge of child labour and the environmental footprint resulting from the excessive use of pesticides, insecticides and water, polluting soils and leading to a marked loss of biodiversity. the eu, as the main importer of this material, is the largest donor to developing producer countries. despite the importance of this sector to the european economy, the eu is not a member of the international cotton advisory committee (icac), whose mission is to promote good practice. i therefore welcome the proposal for eu membership of the ccia.
in writing. - this resolution refers to various aspects related to the sustainability of the cotton value chain. it highlights the environmental problems in cotton production, such as excessive water consumption, the use of pesticides and insecticides and soil degradation, but mainly highlights the serious problem of child labour and forced labour. the resolution focuses on condemning countries that use child and forced labour, and on considering possible solutions. the commission is proposing that the ccia should set up means of independent monitoring of human rights violations in the cotton value chain by ngos. that efforts be made by the cotton-producing countries to support farmers' organizations and trade unions in order to raise income levels and improve working conditions in the cotton fields. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to health. the resolution also calls on the commission to study a legislative proposal on an effective mechanism for tracing goods produced by child labour or forced labour. we voted yes.
in writing. cotton is among the most important crops in terms of land, an important job creator and a vital non-food commodity for rural communities, traders, the textile industry and consumers worldwide. cotton is the most widely used natural fibre, grown in over 100 countries and marketed in about 150 countries. it is estimated that around 100 million households are involved in cotton production and that the cotton sector is an important source of employment and income for more than 250 million people involved in the production, processing, storage and transport of this agricultural value chain. we must step up efforts to combat trade-distorting measures and improve transparency in commodity derivatives markets. the sustainability of the cotton sector depends on producers, traders, suppliers of inputs, textile manufacturers, retailers, brands, governments, civil society and consumers. fair trade schemes provide for closer cooperation between consumers and producers, in particular in the cotton sector, whose expertise and best practices should be assessed by the commission. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling for intensified efforts to combat trade-distorting measures and to improve transparency in commodity derivatives markets.
in writing. - with the advent of eu membership of the international cotton advisory committee (icac), the issue of sustainability of the cotton value chain needs to be considered. in this regard, actions to minimise environmental degradation, including the water footprint and the use of pesticides and insecticides, should be promoted so that these unsustainable production conditions do not jeopardise future cotton production conditions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation is based on the principle of mutual recognition of the quality of the environment and the protection of human health. the commission is also proposing to establish a global labelling system to ensure that products are produced without the use of forced or child labour at various points in the global supply chain.
in writing. - cotton is among the most important crops in terms of soil. it is an important job creator and a vital non-food commodity for rural communities, traders, the textile industry and consumers worldwide. cotton production is dominated by china, india and the united states, with the united states, india, australia and brazil being the largest exporters and china, bangladesh and turkey the largest importers. parliament called for intensified efforts to combat trade-distorting measures and improve transparency in commodity derivatives markets and for all cotton players to work together within the framework of the ccia without further delay in order to drastically minimise environmental degradation, including excessive water consumption and the use of pesticides and insecticides. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the resolution focuses on condemning countries that use child and forced labour in cotton production and on considering possible solutions. the commission is proposing that the ccia should set up means of independent monitoring of human rights violations in the cotton value chain by ngos. that efforts be made by the cotton-producing countries to support farmers' organizations and trade unions in order to raise income levels and improve working conditions in the cotton fields. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to health. we voted yes.
mr president, very briefly, i would just like to say, on this occasion when we are remembering one of the great tragedies of the history of the 20th century, the partition between india and pakistan, and then west and east pakistan, which gave rise to the independence of bangladesh, that i would like to make an appeal from this house to bangladeshi society, to bangladeshi institutions, that through your tribunal of memory, you may actually achieve the reconciliation of the country, in line with what is the great tradition of bengali culture of humanity, which has given us so much, from the poet rabindranath tagore to one of my personal heroes, the architect and engineer fazlur rahman khan, who participated in the bangladesh war of independence, and live in the memory of those illustrious ancestors and meet death without regret, but with true reconciliation, to unite your country.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr jørgensen says that his party is very green and that others in denmark who also support the carbon market are very green. what i wanted to ask you is whether, in this green spirit, you conceive or admit any solution to this problem of reducing greenhouse gas emissions that is not a market solution, if you can conceive of any solution that does not go through the market? and second, what makes you think it's gonna work this time, which it never has, just because we've postponed the auction of a few licenses?
the years go by and reality insists on confirming what many, including ourselves, have always said: the carbon market not only does not lead to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, but is itself an obstacle to such reductions and to decreased dependence on fossil fuels. to insist is ineffective and perverse. it has provided fabulous profits for the big polluters, who are lining up credits with more than dubious and perverse investments made in developing countries, and selling the licences that have been allocated to them free of charge. it is a system that has proved to be vulnerable to failure and fraud, such as the carousel frauds in several countries that have damaged the public purse by billions of euros. the costs of the system are borne by the taxpayers, the profits go to the polluters. the commodification and financialization of natural functions and cycles may be appealing to a dying capitalism, a new boon for speculators, but it will never be an instrument for nature conservation. the alternative to market illusions lies in a regulatory and normative approach that is effective from the point of view of environmental objectives and socially fair. we therefore want to join our voices here with the many hundreds of environmental organizations around the world calling for an end to the carbon market. alternative solutions exist and can be implemented now. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i can answer with a question: so far the carbon market has never led to reductions in emissions, what makes you believe that in the near future what has never worked so far may work? there are alternatives, and i'm not the one who talked about carbon taxes. i spoke of a normative, regulatory approach, which is, incidentally, used for industrial emissions other than greenhouse gases. why not also follow this normative approach which is, by way of example only, used in the ippc directive? there are other alternatives, this one has already shown that it does not lead to the expected results. the commission says it works, you say it works, but reality, stubborn as it is, insists on... (the president cut the speaker off)
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would like to ask mr jadot, i would ask him to tell us what examples he knows of, to give us examples of significant structural changes from an ecological point of view, of changes in the energy matrix, in demand, in consumption, in energy production, what considerable changes of relevance from an ecological point of view he knows of that have been achieved by using market instruments such as the carbon market? and, by the way, do you also have any alternatives to market solutions or do the greens, like the socialist group, also know of no alternative to market solutions?
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes this report by the european parliament. it is a very important issue and i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms gurmai, the shadow rapporteurs and everybody who helped with this report. the commission, as a guardian of the treaties, has a duty to monitor the implementation of eu legislation by the member states. so, all legislation regarding equal treatment shall be fully and correctly implemented by all member states. this is our position. referring to this special directive, the commission has started to monitor conformity and what the member states have been doing since 2011. then we started monitoring. following the so-called ‘test-achats’ ruling, the commission adopted guidelines to facilitate the transition to unisex pricing and enhance legal certainty in the insurance sector. the delay set by the court of justice of the european union to comply with the test-achats ruling elapsed on 21 december 2012, so we have legal certainty now. the commission will watch closely to see whether all member states have properly implemented the ruling in their respective national legislation. you are asking for a new report. i can inform you that the commission will report on the impact of the ruling in 2014 in the context of a more general report on the implementation of this directive. then the commission will also provide information about the outcome of the conformity checks of the national legislations. we consider that there is no need to propose new legislation to address the principle of unisex pricing in insurance services. the judgment of the court of justice of the european union is clear. that is why we think that legal certainty exists. the court ensures equal treatment of men and women in insurance, by declaring invalid article 5 of the directive on equal access to goods and services. the decision of the court is very clear – that is why we think that legal certainty is there, and there is really no need for further legal action on this point. promoting effective gender equality in the european union is and will continue to be a priority of the commission. as the rapporteur underlined – and we would like to agree – national equality bodies play an important role in this, and the commission can reassure parliament that it will monitor properly and accurately the situation of the equality bodies across europe. i would like to thank the european parliament for keeping gender equality in europe high on the political agenda. i would like to reiterate that the commission strives for good cooperation with the rapporteur, parliament and everybody here.
despite the progress made and the legislation passed, it is a fact that women continue to be discriminated against in various ways. we must therefore continue to tackle persistent inequalities and improve legislation. the directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services has not produced the desired results, as in some cases it has proved to be detrimental to women. in some member states, the transposition of the directive has been incomplete or delayed, in others, national legislation has been vague and unclear, which has made its proper interpretation and application difficult and has generated legal uncertainty. discrimination in relation to pregnancy and maternity, for example in housing or in obtaining loans, as well as in access to medical goods and services, in particular reproductive health care and gender reassignment treatment, as provided for in legislation, is unacceptable. we support the proposals of the rapporteur, mrs zita grumai, whose work we thank and welcome, and of course we welcome the commission's efforts to ensure legal certainty, but we think it would be better if a new legislative text were put forward. that's our opinion.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. it is unacceptable that equality between men and women should be promoted as a principle of the european union in various marketing campaigns as an unquestionable value and then in practice be given over to the lobbies of insurance companies and the financial sector, with the intention of derogating from the principle, which is unquestionable, but it seems that only in some situations. it is unacceptable that sex should be considered as a basis for differentiating the premiums and benefits of insured persons. it is unacceptable that the lives of women who want to take out insurance should be marred by questionnaires asking about their reproductive life, in particular whether they have ever had a voluntary termination of pregnancy. on the other hand, it is clear that the current directive does not address fundamental issues, in particular the content of the media and advertising, which, as we all know, are among the media that most stereotypically and discriminatoryally treat women. finally, it is important to remember that today the discrimination affecting women in access to goods and services is increasing rapidly at another level, at the most fundamental level of purchasing power and choice resulting from the differentiations in access to quality employment and access to decent wages and pensions, i.e. inequalities between men and women are deepening at the most basic levels of social life, in an unprecedented civilizational retreat, demonstrating the failure of these guiding policies of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, the situation we are discussing here today is serious. this is a unilateral decision by iceland and the faroe islands on mackerel fishing quotas, with severe negative economic and environmental impacts for all countries fishing this resource. this situation is being aggravated by the persistence of unilateral decisions and the increase in self-allocated quotas, an increasingly irresponsible attitude which must be urgently punished by proportionate and effective means. we are not aware of any initiatives by the commission to deter and punish this repeatedly unacceptable behaviour. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i hope that this debate will not only give us a concrete explanation of what the commission is doing in this area and what results it has achieved, but will also be a decisive stimulus to the effective resolution of this serious problem.
mr president, for the second time the european commission's programme for portugal, the troika's programme, has come into conflict with the constitution of the republic, and why? because it violates the principles of equality and proportionality, which are two basic principles of the portuguese constitutional order and, by the way, two basic principles of the european constitution itself. your programs have already destroyed our economy, and it seems that you want to destroy our democracy now as well. commissioner, i take advantage of the fact that i am here to ask you a favour: i would like to inform the commissioners, i would like to inform the president of the commission, that the portuguese are not as submissive as they may think they are when they meet the prime minister or the minister of finance of portugal, who we know come to brussels every time and say yes. but the portuguese are not as submissive as they are and you should also know that neither the prime minister nor the minister of finance represent the feelings of the portuguese people, because patience is running out and it is very important to take this into account, because if you listen to what people are saying in the streets in portugal, and what they are saying is simple, fuck the troika.
mr president, this winter has been very harsh in several european regions, such as the azores, an outermost region in the middle of the north atlantic, which is plagued by bad weather both at sea and on land. 16 of the 19 municipalities on the nine islands of the azores suffered great losses: lives were lost, houses were destroyed, as were businesses, roads and urban areas, crops and agricultural roads were ruined, livestock became ill, fishermen could not go to sea... the high unemployment rates do not offer any alternative for those who have just suffered the hardships of this winter. the already weak productive fabric, which is heavily dependent on the primary sector, is thus further weakened, if not definitively compromised. it is urgent that the european commission should take stock of these exceptional losses and take exceptional measures to support and recover the losses that threaten the maintenance of economic activity, condemning the populations to poverty and neglect.
mr president, this discussion on promoting development through trade cannot ignore the harmful effects of liberalization and deregulation of world trade in developing countries. contrary to what the heralds of free trade preach, for these countries its effects mean more poverty, more inequality, more difficulties imposed on the diversification of their fragile economies, greater dependence on and less use of natural resources, which are progressively being expropriated, development projects compromised. the promotion of development requires regulated and complementary trade and genuine development cooperation policies. the european union is now rapidly turning its back on blackmail and pressure to sign the so-called economic partnership agreements, to which these countries have rightly and understandably resisted. it is that, as free trade agreements are, they are a clear protectionism of the rich and powerful and not any help to the weak.
the european union's trade and investment policies in developing countries have practical results and consequences which need to be discussed in greater depth. it is based on the subordinate and peripheral insertion of these countries in world trade, on the enormous and growing dependence on foreign investment, which results in an increasingly fragile sovereignty and consequent compromise of endogenous development projects. to make matters worse, so-called investment agreements often stifle public policies essential to the predominance of the interests of these countries and their peoples over the interests of foreign investors. a project for the autonomous and sovereign development of these countries requires that space be made available for public policies, allowing for their sovereign use and the use of all the instruments associated with it, including expropriations, nationalizations, among others. it is the most basic democratic values and principles that require it, and any genuine development cooperation policy must recognize and respect it.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that we have reached a good text on this subject. i could say this from the perspective of national banking, but also and fundamentally at a more general level, at the european level. in a time of crisis like this, banking has to fundamentally serve the economy and the people. how did you do that? by providing credit, credit that allows investment, investment that leads to possible growth of the economy and businesses. at a time when the imf is saying that the euro zone is the epicentre of the crisis we are currently experiencing, the european parliament and the other institutions are giving a good answer, a response that is moving towards stronger banks, towards more credible banks, with rules on transparency and information. the banking sector can be the engine of growth for our economy and it is therefore very important that a set of principles for better financing of small and mediumsized enterprises has been agreed. however, the banking union must continue. we need a set of rules on the resolution of banks and on deposit guarantees. i leave a final word to the european parliament, and especially to the rapporteur, mr karas, who has done an extraordinary job which we should all be proud of.
the causes of the crisis are much deeper and go far beyond the proclaimed failures of regulation and supervision of the financial system. but in fact, these failures greatly amplified the effects of the violent outbreak of the capitalist crisis in 2008. starting in 2008, many officials were complaining about the irresponsibility of the bankers. and as they were yawning, they were promising vigorous action and a punch in the face of irresponsibility. as always, time has passed and some of the promises made then have been dashed: from the end of tax havens to the tax on financial transactions, to the end of financial derivatives. this regulatory reform will be the last remnant of the so-called 'moralising' impulse. a reform welcomed with pomp by european bankers. how do you explain this bonomy, coming from someone who, obviously, doesn't like to have his business interfered with? the answer is simple: the whole regulatory reform carried out by the european union was determined by financial capital itself. from the first expert groups set up by the european commission to the final result, the largest european banks determined the whole process. the result was tailored to your interests. by attacking this important area of state sovereignty further, the foundations are laid for the process of monopolistic concentration of the financial sector on a european scale.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which gives a review of the mandate of this body over 7 years and a commitment to its effectiveness, taking into account that this agency was set up in the sense that electronic communications, infrastructure and services are essential for today's society and cybersecurity plays a prominent role here, providing security for networks and information within the european union and at the same time enabling the development of a network and information security culture for the general benefit of citizens, consumers, businesses and public administrations.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency (enisa), set up in 2004 for an initial period of five years, was extended in 2008 until 2012. in september 2010, the european commission put forward a proposal to extend the operational period until september 2013. the agency has made a valuable contribution to network and information security and meets specific needs at the european union level by promoting cooperation between all stakeholders in a more effective and efficient way than cooperation between member states would ever be able to achieve. the mandate and resources of enisa need to be strengthened in order to ensure and promote a high level of security and data protection and should ensure liaison with national authorities. it is also important that the agency's scope, missions and objectives become clearer so that its valuable resources can be better used. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − enisa will play an increasingly important role in a society that is increasingly based on information networks. the strengthening of the agency's powers and the new dimensions it is given are of the utmost importance.
in writing. − information and communication technologies can be seen as the backbone of the whole eu economy and society. being subject to threats that transcend national borders and to continuous challenges generated by technological and market developments, it is necessary to ensure effective protection against all kinds of disruptions and failures, including man-made attacks. this was the objective behind the creation of enisa in 2004, which has become a valuable instrument at eu level, promoting more effective and efficient coordination between all stakeholders. it is important to re-formulate the mandate of the agency to better respond to the priorities and needs of the eu, including by providing greater flexibility to its response capacity, new skills and competences and greater operational efficiency. i support this regulation which should enable the union and its member states to develop a high degree of capacity and preparedness for the prevention, detection and more effective response to network and information security problems. this will help to strengthen confidence in the information society, improve the competitiveness of european businesses and ensure the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support a package of measures which extend the agency's period of operation, reduce the ambiguity as regards its role and objectives contained in the regulation and strengthen its budget. it is important that the agency's objectives become clearer so that we can make better use of its resources to ensure network and information security both in the eu and internationally.
in writing. − network and information security is of crucial importance to the european union. the society we have seen build, in which much of the life of people and institutions is networked and in which the flow of information and connectivity between different platforms is increasing, cannot but seek to ensure that the data it accumulates and transmits is used only for the purposes for which it is intended. the fragility and the vulnerability to which we are subject are evident, and so is the need to seek to protect our way of life. i welcome the adaptation efforts of enisa and hope that the important changes introduced to it will enhance its action, effectiveness and ability to adapt quickly to threats to network and information security. we all need them.
in writing. − the increasing use of the internet as an essential tool for the development of their professional, cultural, leisure or other activities raises a growing problem with regard to the security of data circulating on the information highways. we all know that cybercrime has been increasing in recent years and the police forces are unable to prosecute all crimes of this nature. the european network and information security agency (enisa), set up in 2004, has made a very important contribution to the security of these networks, but after almost ten years, it is necessary to review its mandate by strengthening its competences and preparing it for the challenges ahead. i voted in favour of the report by mr giles chichester on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on enisa because i believe that it is necessary to create security conditions in computer networks that prevent cybercrime and inspire confidence in their users, companies and individuals, since these information and communication networks are fundamental to the quality of life of europeans, particularly with regard to banking transactions and the purchase of goods, not to mention access to public services.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency (enisa), set up in march 2004, has the express objective of contributing to the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market, which we do not share, in the name of raising the level of network and information security - a concern we share. enisa operated for an initial period of five years, which was subsequently extended until march 2012. this report proposes an extension of the operational period, also increasing the available budget. on the other hand, it supports the move of the agency's headquarters from crete to brussels, which raises a number of questions for us, given that it is fuelling a trend towards centralisation of the european institutions. we also believe that legitimate doubts about the guarantee of respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens have not been fully dispelled. as the internet and its various tools are one of the most important public spaces of the 21st century, we are concerned about the political and social context in which the use of security mechanisms is inserted. it is essential to ensure that the name of greater surveillance of cyberspace does not become a tool for oppression and repression of its users.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency (enisa) was established in march 2004 for an initial period of five years, which was extended in 2008 until march 2012. in september 2010, the commission put forward two proposals, the first to extend the agency's operational period for a further 18 months until september 2013, and the second with the more substantive purpose of modernising and streamlining it. with the unanimous support of parliament, it was decided to first approve the extension of the agency's mandate to ensure its immediate future and to give parliament more time to launch an in-depth debate and analysis on the agency's long-term future. i think that the maintenance of this agency is important in view of its valuable contribution to network and information security, but i think that we need to make some changes in its current form so that it can respond to the new challenges posed by the unstoppable evolution of the world of information technology.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency (enisa) was established in march 2004 for an initial period of five years, extended in 2008 until march 2012. in september 2010, the commission put forward two proposals: the first to extend the agency's operational period for a further 18 months, until september 2013; and the second with the more substantive purpose of modernising and streamlining it. with the unanimous support of parliament, it was decided to first approve the extension of the agency's mandate to ensure its immediate future and to give parliament more time to launch an in-depth debate and analysis on the agency's long-term future. the agency has been found to meet specific needs at eu level by promoting coordination between all stakeholders more effectively and efficiently than cooperation between member states would ever be able to achieve and other aspects of its work would be incorporated. in this context, and in view of the need for the agency, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation provides for an agency to formally succeed the european network and information security agency (enisa) established in march 2004 and whose mandate expires in september 2013. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet, and for the eu to provide information on the internet to citizens. in order to put enisa's current performance into perspective, the itre committee of the european parliament organised a hearing and requested an independent study. this analysis resulted in a number of recommendations, including in particular proposals to maximise the use of the agency's resources by reducing the ambiguity of the role and objectives specified in the regulation, and to increase the budget available to carry out tasks. finally, the rapporteur and the study contest the location of the agency in heraklion, which reduces its visibility and entails enormous travel costs. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's recommendation that brussels should be the seat of the agency.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency was set up in march 2004 with the express aim of contributing to the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market in the name of raising the level of security, an objective which we do not share. enisa operated for an initial period of five years, which was subsequently extended until march 2012, and the commission submitted in 2010 two proposals for extending the agency's operational period for a further 18 months. this report proposes an extension of the operational period, also increasing the available budget. on the other hand, it supports the move of the seat of the agency from crete to brussels, which raises a number of questions for us, given that it is fuelling a trend towards centralisation of the european institutions. the agency's objectives, we warn, may not be to guarantee respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens. as the internet and its various tools are one of the most important public spaces of the 21st century, we are concerned about the political and social context in which the use of security mechanisms is inserted. it is essential to ensure that greater supervision of cyberspace does not become a tool for oppressing and repressing people.
in writing. - i support this report, stating that a comprehensive legislative framework is needed for the protection of cetaceans and similar species, which should be adjacent to the us marine mammal protection act. this is because the cetacean population has declined considerably, with thousands dying each year in community waters. the present legislative proposal, which currently contains many shortcomings, mainly focuses on the use of acoustic equipment to deter accidental hunting of cetaceans despite the fact that cetaceans face various threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with ships and underwater noise pollution.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed amendment to the regulation laying down measures concerning incidental catches of cetaceans in the course of fishing activities. the european parliament must safeguard its rights as defined in the treaty on the functioning of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'accidental catches of cetaceans' because it includes proposals to reverse the dramatic decline in the population of cetaceans in european waters, in particular through the use of acoustic deterrents.
in writing. − accidental capture of cetaceans is a threat to the survival of several species. as the fisheries committee warns, 'catfish stocks are being drastically reduced, while tens of thousands of cetaceans are killed in eu waters every year.' this sad reality must be a cause for concern for all those who recognise the need to ensure the protection of marine biodiversity. the fishing communities must play an active role in this process. existing legislation appears to be insufficient to achieve similar objectives. the european commission has been exercising powers in this area which, by virtue of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, are being reclassified. the time is right for more than mere legal compliance to be laid down, laying the foundations for concrete improvements in the way in which the protection of cetaceans and the deterrence of their capture are being verified.
in writing. the report under consideration concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures relating to incidental catches of cetaceans during fishing activities and amending regulation (ec) no 88/98. with the entry into force of the tfeu, the regulatory hierarchy has undergone a major reshaping, as the ep and the council have now been placed on an equal footing with regard to the ordinary legislative procedures. in addition, in order to streamline procedures, legislators have been able to use delegated acts, giving the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of a general nature. there is also a third level of legislation, the implementing acts. as a consequence of the tfeu, all regulations contrary to the new regulatory hierarchy have become outdated and need to be amended. i voted in favour of this report which supports the commission's proposal for 'the establishment of delegated acts to adapt the conditions and technical specifications for the use of acoustic deterrents; and the application of acts concerning the procedure and format of the reports which member states are required to submit'.
in writing. − as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission for the application of regulation (ec) no 812/2004 should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to implement certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 812/2004, it is proposed to confer on the commission the power to adopt delegated acts concerning the technical specifications and conditions of use of acoustic deterrents - which we consider appropriate and proportionate and does not raise any major problems. it is also proposed to confer implementing powers on the commission in order to ensure uniform conditions for the application of the provisions of this regulation. the rapporteur accepts the commission's position but puts forward three amendments to limit the commission's powers for a period of three years (the commission proposal called for an indefinite period of time) and calls on the commission to present by 2015 a legislative proposal to ensure effective protection of cetaceans. we think the rapporteur's position is correct and we have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - unfortunately, cetacean stocks have been drastically reduced, with tens of thousands of cetaceans dying annually in eu waters. regulation (ec) no 812/2004 is mainly focused on the use of acoustic devices to prevent the accidental capture of cetaceans, although cetaceans are exposed to different threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with vessels and underwater noise pollution. we need to establish a new overall legislative framework for the protection of cetaceans, hence my vote.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to review regulation (ec) no 812/2004 laying down measures concerning incidental catches of cetaceans in fisheries and regulation (ec) no 88/98 conferring certain powers on the commission which need to be reclassified in delegated and implementing acts. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) establishes a new regulatory hierarchy comprising three distinct levels of acts, namely legislative, delegated and implementing acts. delegated and implementing acts allow for a faster response to new situations compared to legislative acts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the proposal also calls for the use of renewable energy sources to be extended to include the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important element in improving regulation and in minimising incidental catches of cetaceans by fisheries.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 of 24 april 2004 currently confers implementing powers on the commission, which should be exercised in a manner that safeguards the rights of parliament established by the tfeu. delegated or implementing acts shall allow the adaptation of the conditions and technical specifications for the use of acoustic marine mammal deterrents and the application of acts concerning the procedure and format of the reports to be submitted by member states. the rapporteur therefore agrees with the commission proposal, but proposes some amendments to it, aimed at more rigorously defining the periods of delegation of powers in order to oblige the commission to report on the results of its exercise and, consequently, to obtain a regular evaluation of the delegated acts. in view of the drastic reduction in the number and mortality of cetacean stocks, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation, hoping that the measures adopted will ensure their effective protection against all threats.
in writing. − in order to implement certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 812/2004, it is proposed to confer delegated acts on the commission with regard to the technical specifications and conditions of use of acoustic deterrent devices, which we consider to be positive. it is also proposed to confer implementing powers on the commission in order to ensure uniform conditions for the application of the provisions of this regulation. the rapporteur accepts the commission's position but proposes three amendments to limit the commission's powers for a period of three years. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve the renewal of this fisheries agreement, considering that it is balanced and covers the interests of both parties. furthermore, since it allows european vessels to fish in the sovereign waters of the republic of mauritius, but at the same time establishes scientific, financial and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector with a view to promoting responsible fishing in mauritian waters, cooperation on patrolling arrangements in mauritian waters and partnerships between operators with a view to developing economic activities in the fisheries sector and related sectors of common interest, i am of the opinion that once again this protocol protects both the interests of the european union and those of the republic of mauritius.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of mauritius. the conclusion of this agreement will help to strengthen economic activities in the fisheries sector in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the eu-mauritius fisheries partnership agreement', considering that it is a balanced agreement which respects the legitimate interests of both parties.
in writing. - the relationship between the european union and the republic of mauritius in the fisheries sector dates back to 1989. however, at the end of the protocol 2003-2007, the parties were unable to reach an agreement on the terms of its renewal. since then, the european fleet has been obliged to operate under private access schemes. the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will contribute to strengthening mauritius' capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, including through improving its monitoring and control infrastructures for fishing activities in its eez. for the european union, the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol will help maintain continuity in the fisheries areas covered by agreements in the east african region and contribute to the viability of european industries by providing a medium-term framework of stability for eu vessels and the industries that depend on them. i believe that the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol are balanced and serve the interests of both parties.
in writing. − the european union (eu) and the republic of mauritius have had fisheries relations for almost 25 years, the last protocol expiring in 2007. however, in the years that followed, the parties failed to reach an agreement, to the detriment of the european fishing fleet. following the resumption of negotiations in 2010, it was possible to draw up a fisheries partnership agreement, which the commission signed on 23 february 2012. the recommendation by mr antolín sánchez presedo concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a new fisheries partnership agreement and a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement. given the record of respect for human and fundamental rights by the republic of mauritius and that this fishing activity is sustainable, not showing any negative effects at economic, social or environmental level, i voted in favour as both the new partnership agreement and the new protocol serve the interests of both parties.
in writing. the first fisheries agreements between the european union and the republic of mauritius date back to 1989. these agreements were renewed until 2007, but when the 2003-2007 protocol expired, the parties could not agree on the terms of their renewal. since then, the european fleet has been obliged to operate under private access schemes. in 2010, further efforts were made to reach a new agreement. without prejudice to certain reservations as to the full fulfilment of the conditions put forward by the rapporteur for the approval of the agreement - namely: to be an economically reasonable agreement taking into account the fishing possibilities available; to be a basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the relevant fisheries resources; to constitute adequate support for the local fisheries sector - we supported the conclusion of the agreement, which will open up fishing possibilities for some segments of the national fleet, in particular tuna vessels.
in writing. − the initial fisheries agreement between the eu and the republic of mauritius started in 1989 and ran until 2007. as of that date, the parties have not yet reached a new agreement on the conditions to be adopted under the agreement. when the new negotiations for a new agreement began, an impact assessment was commissioned which did not identify any negative economic, social or environmental effects. the study did identify a number of positive consequences of the previous agreement, such as the strengthening of the european and mauritian fisheries sectors and benefits for local populations. according to this analysis, the opening of fishing opportunities in mauritian waters would not necessarily result in an increase in the total catches taken by european vessels in the indian ocean, but would contribute to a better geographical distribution of fishing effort. finally, it concluded that the mauritius fishing zone does not reveal any specific biological or environmental sensitivity. so this new agreement will be as favourable to the parties involved as it is always intended to be.
in writing. - fisheries relations between the european union and the republic of mauritius date back to the 1980s. however, at the end of the protocol's period of validity from 2003 to 2007, the parties were unable to reach an agreement on its renewal and the european fishing fleet has since been operating in these waters under private access schemes. the intensification of efforts to address this situation led to the establishment of the fisheries partnership protocol and agreement, which was initialled by the commission in 2012. the conclusion of this new fisheries partnership agreement will allow the continuation of the european fleet in east african fishing zones and will contribute to the viability of the european fishing industry operating in these waters by providing fishing opportunities to 41 tuna seiners and 45 surface longliners in return for an annual financial compensation of eur 660 000 (eur 302 500 to support the maritime and fisheries policy in mauritius). given the importance of this eu-mauritius fisheries partnership agreement and considering that the conditions laid down are balanced and of interest to both parties, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − on 23 february 2012, the commission initialled a partnership agreement with the republic of mauritius, the conclusion of which is subject to the approval of the european parliament. the main elements of the new protocol comprise the annual financial compensation of eur 660 000 per year, of which eur 357 500 for the fishing authorisation of a reference tonnage of 5500 tonnes per year, and eur 302 500 corresponding to the additional allocation granted by the eu to support mauritius' fisheries and maritime policy. in this country, fishing accounts for a relatively small part of the national gdp. therefore, the availability of fishing opportunities in mauritian waters does not reveal any negative economic, social or environmental impacts. moreover, the commission stated that the local fisheries sector, due to its characteristics, does not operate in waters where european fishing vessels are authorised to fish and, moreover, eu and mauritian vessels fish for different species. as there is no record of overfishing in the region and as the agreement does not represent any threat to the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, nor any threat at the socioeconomic level, i voted in favour of the new partnership agreement.
in writing. the first fisheries agreements between the european union and the republic of mauritius date back to 1989. these agreements were renewed until 2007, but when the 2003-2007 protocol expired, the parties could not agree on the terms of their renewal. since then, the european fleet has been obliged to operate under private access schemes. without prejudice to certain reservations as to the full fulfilment of the assumptions put forward by the rapporteur for the approval of the agreement namely: to be an economically reasonable agreement taking into account the available fishing opportunities; to be a basis for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the relevant fisheries resources; to constitute adequate support for the local fishing industry we supported the conclusion of the agreement, which will open up fishing opportunities for some segments of the national fleet.
in writing. - i approve this report on the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin, given that the european parliament had already decided in 2011 to waive the parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin, member of the european parliament, following the request of the vienna public prosecutor's office. furthermore, since the same office has requested the extension of the period of the waiver of parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin in order to carry out investigations, and since this request is due to the alleged offence of aggravated fraud, i therefore think that the waiver of parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin is appropriate.
in writing. − on 27 june 2012, the permanent representation of austria to the european union (eu) delivered a letter from the vienna public prosecutor's office requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin mep. this request follows one already made by hans-peter martin himself and on which this parliament had already taken a decision on 13 september 2011 due to allegations of misappropriation of funds intended for party financing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy. the rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, believes that this hypothetical crime is not covered by the statute for members of the european parliament, as it is not related to his behaviour as a member of the european parliament. in this connection, and in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, which recommends, pursuant to rule 7 (2) of the rules of procedure, that the parliamentary immunity of mr hans-peter martin be waived, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. the european parliament has already lifted the immunity of hans-peter martin on 13 september 2011 at the request of the vienna prosecutor's office. the vienna prosecutor's office now intends to open further investigations against hans-peter martin on the basis of new allegations that he committed aggravated fraud, as provided for in sections 146 and 147 (3) of the austrian criminal code, by declaring a third party as a parliamentary assistant, although the person in question had allegedly never worked for him in connection with his parliamentary activities, and thus knowingly caused officials of the european parliament to pay remuneration, including social security contributions, to that third party. in view of the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr hans-peter martin, and considering that article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 57 of the austrian bundesverfassungsgesetz (federal constitutional law) do not preclude the waiver of the immunity of mr hans-peter martin, i am in favour of the waiver of the immunity of mr hans-peter martin.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mep hans-peter martin in a case concerning alleged offences relating to the misappropriation of party funds. whereas the facts of this case, as presented in the documents sent to the committee on legal affairs, concerning alleged substantiated activities on the basis of which the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to carry out further investigations against hans-peter martin, are clearly not the views expressed nor the votes cast by the member in the exercise of his duties, it is therefore decided to waive the parliamentary immunity. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the decision to waive the parliamentary immunity of jürgen creutzmann, taking into account the request made to that effect by the public prosecutor's office in frankenthal (germany) in the context of the opening of an inquiry into the alleged infringement and also taking into account the fact that the infringement concerns a criminal proceeding under the german federal constitutional order.
in writing. the report is concerned with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of german mep jürgen creutzmann, made by the frankenthal prosecutor general, following a request for an inquiry into a road traffic accident where the mep failed to respect the priority of another vehicle at an intersection, causing bodily injury to the driver of the other vehicle. the rapporteur, mr francesco enrico speroni, considers that the facts which led the attorney general of frankenthal to want to carry out inquiries into jürgen creutzmann are clearly not opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. all the conditions are therefore met for the european parliament to approve the waiver of parliamentary immunity. in this connection, and in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, which proposes, pursuant to rule 7 (2), the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jürgen creutzmann, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in this case, the attorney general of frankenthal intends to file a complaint against jürgen creutzmann, based on allegations that he committed the criminal offence of personal injury by negligence, pursuant to § 229 of the german criminal code. in his letter of 5 november 2012, the frankenthal prosecutor states that jürgen creutzmann, while driving a vehicle, allegedly disregarded the priority of another vehicle at an intersection, thus causing the collision of the two vehicles. the passenger in the other vehicle suffered serious injuries in the accident. in view of the facts which have been pointed out, and because they have nothing to do with the activity of the member of the european parliament, i am in favour of lifting the immunity of jürgen creutzmann.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mep jürgen creutzmann in a pending action before the frankenthal public prosecutor's office concerning the alleged criminal offence of negligent personal injury under § 229 of the german criminal code following a road traffic accident. considering that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents sent to the committee on legal affairs, which led the attorney general of frankenthal to want to make inquiries into jürgen creutzmann, are clearly not opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties, it was decided to waive the parliamentary immunity. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report which allows the parliamentary immunity of ewald stadler to be waived, in view of the investigation carried out by the vienna public prosecutor's office against him, who is accused of the crime of coercion under the austrian penal code. i have no objection to the waiver of mr stadler's parliamentary immunity, also in view of article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of members of the european union.
in writing. − this report, by tadeusz zwiefka, concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the austrian mep ewald stadler, following the receipt by the president of the european parliament (ep) on 9 july 2012 of a letter from the public prosecutor's office in vienna, austria. according to this letter, the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to open a preliminary investigation against ewald stadler on the charge of attempted aggravated coercion and the commission of a crime of perjury by false statements before the vienna regional criminal court. ewald stadler claims that he did not commit the crimes of which he is accused and that the allegations are false and the result of a political campaign to harm him. according to the rapporteur, the facts which led the vienna public prosecutor's office to want to carry out investigations into ewald stadler are clearly not opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. in this connection, and in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, which recommends, pursuant to rule 7 (2) of the rules of procedure, that the parliamentary immunity of mr ewald stadler be waived, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. whereas the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to open a preliminary investigation against mr ewald stadler, the member of the european parliament, on suspicion of attempted aggravated coercion and perjury; the alleged acts which led the vienna public prosecutor's office to want to carry out investigations into ewald stadler are clearly not opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties within the meaning of article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. article 9 of the protocol is therefore the relevant provision for the purpose of examining the request for the waiver of the immunity of ewald stadler. in accordance with article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and of the austrian constitution, the committee on legal affairs concludes that there is nothing to prevent the waiver of the immunity of ewald stadler.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of ewald stadler, mep, in the context of a preliminary inquiry by the vienna public prosecutor's office into the suspicion of attempted aggravated coercion. considering that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents sent to the committee on legal affairs, which led the vienna public prosecutor's office to want to carry out investigations in relation to ewald stadler, are clearly not opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties, it was decided to waive parliamentary immunity. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that italy has fulfilled the requirements to receive a financial contribution under the egf. i also approve of this report, bearing in mind that this financial contribution is intended to assist 700 workers who have been unemployed since 2008, and also stressing the fact that this request has been made since the company's insolvency in 2008, and that only now is the european union's support in solidarity being made available.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of eur 5 037 482 from the egf for italy to support the 1517 workers made redundant by the company antonio merloni spa.
in writing. - i agree to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the italian application concerning the company antonio merloni spa.
in writing. − financial assistance to workers affected by redundancies as a result of globalisation should be provided on an individual basis and aimed at their reintegration into the labour market. it should therefore be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. and that is why i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise eur 5 037 482 from the egf for italy, which is intended to assist the 1517 workers made redundant by the company antonio merloni spa, a manufacturer of household appliances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in support of the mobilisation of eur 5 037 482 under the egf for italy following the 1517 redundancies at antonio merloni spa. the italian authorities are now expected to make the most of the egf assistance and to encourage as many workers as possible to participate in the planned measures, avoiding, as in the past, a low rate of budget implementation.
in writing. - another italian company is bankrupt, leaving more than 2200 workers unemployed, 1500 of whom are covered by the egf. in this case, it was one of the largest producers of household appliances in the european union, which in itself reflects the economic and financial crisis we are in, aggravated by external competition and unfair competition practices. support from the european globalisation adjustment fund is needed to address situations such as this one, seeking to reduce the impact of unemployment and to help, in a complementary way, to improve the skills and competences of workers so that they can re-enter the labour market. i recommend that the processing and assessment of the appropriateness of egf applications be speeded up so that the egf can be mobilised in good time.
in writing. - the present report by mr frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2012/023 it/antonio merloni spa, italy). on 20 february 2013, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 29 december 2011. this is the first application under the eu budget for 2013, mobilising eur 5 037 482, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 1517 workers from the company antonio merloni spa, a manufacturer of household appliances, located in the italian regions of marche and umbria. as the egf, set up in 2006, aims to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision.
in writing. − this is the first application for the european globalisation adjustment fund to be examined under the 2013 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 037 482 for italy. the result was 1,517 redundancies at antonio merloni spa, the fifth largest manufacturer of household appliances in the eu, whose production facilities were located in the provinces of ancona and perugia. of the 1,517 workers made redundant, 86.15% are aged between 24 and 54 and 12.72% are over 55 years of age. the justification for the closure of this company and the consequent lay-off of its employees lies, once again, in the structural changes in world trade patterns and the world economic and financial crisis. but when wages are lowered, when unemployment is promoted on a large scale, when precarious employment is promoted, when public services are destroyed, this is the result: the internal market shrinks as a result of a feeling of insecurity about the future. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: we must break with the policies that are impoverishing the peoples of europe, destroying millions of jobs, destroying the dreams of millions of men and women, especially young people.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid has now to be given to 1517 redundancies in the company antonio merloni spa and supplemented with additional information until 4 september 2012. this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions provided for in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission is therefore proposing to mobilise the sum of eur 5 037 482. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 20 february 2013, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the first application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 037 482 from the egf for italy, based on 1517 redundancies at antonio merloni spa (all potential beneficiaries of assistance). since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 7 451 972 from the egf for italy to support the 856 potential beneficiaries of the 1517 workers made redundant in the company antonio merloni spa, a manufacturer of household appliances in the provinces of ancona and perugia.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has led to a sharp collapse of the world economy, with a huge impact on many sectors. the application of antonio merloni spa is the first to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 037 482 from the egf reserve. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures for the reintegration of 1517 workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance, assistance in finding employment, vocational training and upskilling, guidance for workers over 50, jobseeker's allowance, recruitment allowance, travel allowance and contribution to relocation costs. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the first application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 037.482 from the egf for italy. the result was 1,517 redundancies at antonio merloni spa, the fifth largest manufacturer of household appliances in the eu, whose production facilities were located in the provinces of ancona and perugia. of the 1,517 workers made redundant, 86.15% are aged between 24 and 54 and 12.72% are over 55 years of age. the justification for the closure of this company and the consequent lay-off of its employees lies, once again, in the structural changes in world trade patterns and the world economic and financial crisis. but when wages are lowered, when unemployment is promoted on a large scale, when precarious employment is promoted, when public services are destroyed, this is the result: the internal market shrinks as a result of a feeling of insecurity about the future. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: we must break with the policies that are impoverishing the peoples of europe, destroying millions of jobs, destroying the dreams of millions of men and women, especially young people.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the difficult socioeconomic situation of 1257 workers made redundant and also taking into account the fact that 856 of these workers have already received assistance. i would also stress that this insolvency has a negative impact on the whole of italy, with workers coming from 12 of the 19 italian regions. moreover, with the worsening economic crisis in italy, this country increased its unemployment rate from 6,8% to 8,5% between 2008 and 2010.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of eur 3 689 474 from the egf for italy to support the 856 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, out of the 1 257 made redundant by the company agile s.r.l.
in writing. - i agree to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the italian application for the agile company.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise eur 3 689 474 from the egf for the benefit of the employees of the italian company agile s.r.l., which aims to help its 1257 redundant employees to work in the ict sector. i would remind you once again that the mobilisation of egf appropriations is intended to help redundant workers to re-enter the labour market quickly, and i stress the importance of improving the employability of these workers through vocational training enabling them to develop new skills in line with current labour market needs. but also the need for their skills and competences acquired during their professional careers to be recognised and validated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the mobilisation of eur 3 689 474 under the egf for italy following the 1257 redundancies in the company agile s.r.l. this mobilisation is justified in that the crisis has hit the information and communication technologies market in the eu particularly hard. the package of personalised services to be co-financed should contribute to the reintegration of workers in order to take advantage of their training and know-how.
in writing. - communication and information technologies, which for some time were considered immune or less permeable to the problems plaguing the european economy, are now facing serious problems which are challenging companies in the sector. one of the companies that did not survive the crisis was the italian agile, whose workers are now looking to return to the labour market. enterprises geared to innovation and information and communication technologies are essential for a union which must be able to encourage, attract and maintain them, otherwise their productive fabric will be doomed to stagnation and obsolescence. i hope that the workers helped by the egf will be able to return quickly to the labour market and lend their commitment and expertise to the recovery of such an important sector as the one in which agile operated.
in writing. - this report deals with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf and falls within paragraph 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/016 it/agile, italy). on 7 march 2013, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 30 december 2011. this is the third application under the eu budget for 2013, mobilising eur 3 689 474, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 1257 workers from agile s.r.l., an ict company which, after accelerated growth at the beginning of the 21st century, closed the first decade with negative annual growth. since the application meets the eligibility criteria, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision and i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations for the committee on employment and social affairs to provide support and constructive input to the evaluation of egf applications.
in writing. - another application to the european globalisation adjustment fund, submitted by italy, for a financial contribution of eur 3.689.474 following the dismissal of 1257 workers at agile, a company operating in the technology and communications (it) sector. these redundancies took place almost throughout italy, in particular in the region of umbria, where another company was located, which was also closed. as has become the custom, the justification for further attacks on the right to work lies on the one hand in the major structural changes in world trade patterns and on the other hand in the recession in the it sector. the credit constraints that have arisen in the wake of the economic and financial crisis are now added. more than this fund - which legitimises the policy of dismissals and supports employers in this decision - what workers need is the implementation of investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights. only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted for 1257 redundancies in the company agile s.r.l., 856 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 22 september 2011 to 22 december 2011. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 7 march 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the third application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 3 689 474 from the egf for italy, based on 1257 redundancies in the company agile s.r.l. (all potential beneficiaries of assistance). since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 3 689 474 from the egf for italy to support the 856 potential beneficiaries of the 1257 workers made redundant in the ict company agile s.r.l.
in writing. − the agile application is the third application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 689 474 from the egf for italy. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures to reintegrate the 856 workers into the labour market, vocational guidance and skills assessment, relocation and assistance in job search, vocational training and updating of skills, postgraduate studies, promotion of entrepreneurship and contribution to the creation of a company, support for recruitment, mentoring after re-entry into employment, job search allowance and contributions to special expenses such as participation in carers' expenses, participation in travel expenses and contribution to the costs of moving residence due to a change of employment. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this is the second application submitted by italy to this plenary for a financial contribution from the egf - eur 3.689.474 - following the redundancies of 1 257 workers at agile s.r.l., a company operating in the technology and communications sector. these redundancies took place almost throughout italy, particularly in the umbria region, where the headquarters of the company antonio merloni spa was located, whose request for support following the closure we have just voted on. as has become the custom, the justification for further attacks on the right to work lies on the one hand in the major structural changes in world trade patterns and on the other hand in the recession in the it sector. the credit constraints that have arisen in the wake of the economic and financial crisis are now added. more than this fund - which legitimises the policy of dismissals and supports employers in this decision - what workers need is the implementation of investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights. only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the present request concerns support for 270 workers made redundant out of a total of 320 in austria tabak and 14 companies supplying it. however, i regret that out of the total cost of the package of eur 5 864 615, only eur 4 266 000 has been committed, indicating that a proportionate amount is recommended in future mobilisations of the fund.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 3 941 999 from the egf for austria to support the 270 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, out of the 320 made redundant in 14 companies.
in writing. - i agree to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following the austrian application for austria tabak.
in writing. − in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to effectively implement the instruments to support and empower affected workers with a view to their rapid reintegration into the labour market. in addition, in the particular case of the tobacco processing industry (of which austria tabak is a part), a number of structural changes are taking place, not only in trade patterns but also in the active european anti-tobacco policies. factors which translate into a drastic reduction in cigarette consumption in european countries, which has consequently put pressure on the industries in this sector. i therefore agree with the way in which this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is proposed: a mobilisation which provides for the transfer of eur 3 941 999 to austria tabak's workers.
in writing. − the closure of production units across europe is threatening not only the jobs of those who work in them but also those of many others who depend on them indirectly. this is the case of austria tabak, whose closure of its cigarette factory has caused serious difficulties for the region in which it is located. although there has been an effort to 'outsource' the european economy, it is important to recognise that its strength will only be assured if it can accommodate the three sectors in a balanced way and try to become more self-reliant and less dependent on imports. i hope that the district of bruck an der leitha will be able to find other companies willing to invest there and that the additional support that is given by the egf to redundant workers will produce good results in terms of their training and re-entry into the market.
in writing. - the present report by mr frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/010 at/austria tabak, austria). on 7 march 2013, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 20 december 2011. this is the second application submitted under the eu budget for 2013, mobilising eur 3 941 999, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 320 workers from austria tabak, whose activity falls within the tobacco processing industry and which has been the victim of the reduction of eu market share and the relocation of production to third countries. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a decision, since it meets the conditions for adoption under the egf.
in writing. - unemployment is rampant and unstoppable in the european union. the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 941 999 for austria. the application concerns redundancies in austria tabak gmbh and in 14 of its supplier or producer companies, for a total of 320 redundancies, only 270 workers being concerned. this redundancy is the result of a business decision by japan tobacco international, which decided to relocate its production sites to emerging markets on the grounds that major changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation have led to the relocation of consumption and production of tobacco products to third countries, causing a significant reduction in the eu market share. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of tobacco products, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include tobacco products in the list of products covered by the directive. and the eu is complacent about all this, or even complicit, in doing nothing to prevent these relocations.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted for 320 redundancies in austria tabak gmbh and 14 of its downstream supplier or producer companies, with 270 workers covered by the egf co-financed measures, during the four-month reference period from 20 august 2011 to 19 december 2011. hence my vote.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 7 march 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the second application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 941 999 from the egf for austria, based on a total of 320 redundancies at austria tabak gmbh and 14 downstream producers, with 270 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 3 941 999 from the egf for austria to support the 270 potential beneficiaries of the 320 workers made redundant at austria tabak gmbh and 14 of its downstream supplier or producer companies.
in writing. − austria tabak's application is the second application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of an amount of eur 3 941 999 from the egf for austria. since austria tabak was the second largest employer in the area, with many small companies linked to its activity, the impact of its closure was particularly severe at local level. the package includes financing measures to reintegrate 270 workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance, assistance in active job search, job mentoring, various types of training and qualification, including vocational training in technical and higher vocational schools, internships in companies during training, practical training at the workplace, intensive support measures for workers over 50 years of age, as well as cost aids during the period of the training or active job search measures. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 941 999 for austria. the application concerns redundancies in austria tabak gmbh and in 14 of its supplier or producer companies, for a total of 320 redundancies, only 270 workers being concerned. this redundancy is the result of a business decision by japan tobacco international to relocate its production sites to emerging markets, citing major shifts in world trade patterns due to globalisation, which have led to the relocation of consumption and production of tobacco products to third countries, causing a significant reduction in the eu market share. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of tobacco products, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include tobacco products in the list of products covered by the directive. as we have said, allocating a few thousand euros to workers sent to unemployment is not the solution. but in the face of the uncontrollable increase in unemployment, it is surely an ever-provisional help to those who, from one moment to the next, find themselves deprived of the only means of supporting themselves and their families.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries have been ongoing for a decade, and given that many countries have not yet approved such agreements, i agree with the recommendation to extend the deadline for the approval of these agreements so that some countries can be in a position to sign them, thus postponing the expiry of preferential access to the european market to 2014. after that date, preferential access to the european market should no longer be granted to countries which do not sign their respective agreements by the new date.
in writing. - i support the commission proposal which suggests that this regulation should enter into force on 1 october 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it necessary to exclude a number of countries from the trade preferences regime under the eu/acp economic partnership agreements. the current situation is not sustainable, as duty-free market access continues to be granted to beneficiary countries which do not take the necessary steps to ratify the agreements.
in writing. - i share the position of the european commission and my political group, which argues that it is time to end the special tariff concessions to countries which have not ratified the economic partnership agreements (epas), as they should have done. meeting the 2014 deadline is not only a sign of respect for those countries that have already signed the epas but it is a proof of seriousness in the work and cooperation between the two blocs. maintaining the 2014 deadline will also encourage the relationship between the various countries in their multiple aspects of economic, commercial and social interaction.
in writing. the recommendation under review, drafted by david martin, concerns the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 as regards the exclusion of certain countries from the list of regions or states which have concluded negotiations. under the cotonou agreement, the european union and its member states (eu) have concluded economic partnership agreements (epas) with a number of acp (africa, caribbean and pacific) countries and regions. some of these countries have not completed the negotiation process by not ratifying the partnership treaty. this situation, which is incompatible with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), creates a situation of injustice towards the compliant states. it also makes annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 outdated. i voted in favour of this report, which not only updates the annex referred to above but also aligns this decision-making with the new procedures resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - no substantive amendments to this proposal were made between the first and second readings. we therefore reiterate our position: this proposal for a regulation constitutes an unacceptable form of pressure and blackmail on acp countries which resist - for justified reasons - signing or ratifying the so-called economic partnership agreements, which are nothing more than free trade agreements between the eu and acp countries, which could have disastrous consequences for the fragile and poorly diversified economies of these countries, opening the door to the colonization of their markets and the deepening of relations of dependence and subordination at economic level. our group proposed that the proposal be simply rejected, which unfortunately was not accepted by the majority of parliament. the idea behind the proposed postponement (which is a defeat for the european commission, which opposed it with its well-known fundamentalism in this field) is quite clear: to give the countries more time to sign the agreements and not the profound change that was required in these agreements. this is unacceptable!
in writing. − following the process of negotiating economic partnership agreements (epas) with acp regions that started in 2002 and ended in december 2007, a number of countries did not take the necessary steps to ratify an epa or conclude comprehensive regional negotiations. if countries removed from annex i were to take the necessary steps to ratify an epa, they would continue to benefit from their trade preferences and could therefore be listed again as soon as possible in order to ensure continued market access. to that end, i am in favour of empowering the commission to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu to amend annex i in order to re-include those countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament concerning the exclusion of a number of countries from the list of regions or states to which the arrangements for goods originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) apply. this regime is that provided for in agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements. the states covered by this resolution have not taken the necessary steps to ratify the said agreements and must therefore be excluded. in this resolution, it is decided to delegate the power to the commission to ensure that these countries can be quickly re-inserted into the list after the obstacles have been removed.
in writing. − the european parliament approved, at second reading, the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 in order to ensure that countries which have concluded economic partnership negotiations with the eu can be readily re-entered into annex i to the regulation as soon as they have taken the necessary steps to ratify their agreements. i voted in favour of the amendments which give the commission the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu, as regards the reintegration of countries which have been removed from annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation constitutes an unacceptable form of pressure and blackmail on acp countries which resist signing or ratifying the so-called economic partnership agreements, which are nothing more than free trade agreements between the eu and acp countries, which could have disastrous consequences for the fragile and poorly diversified economies of these countries, opening the door to the colonization of their markets and the deepening of relations of dependence and subordination at economic level. our group proposed that the proposal be simply rejected, which unfortunately was not accepted by the majority of parliament.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that the european union emission trading scheme (eu ets) is a key instrument for reducing industrial emissions in the union in a cost-effective way. however, i would stress that despite the reduction in emissions already seen, the system is faced with serious imbalances. in my view, this system is one of the pillars of the european union's environmental policy and it is important to have a short-term measure which is not seen as a real solution to the current imbalances, but rather a position which ensures the stability of the system until the necessary structural measures are adopted. i am therefore in favour of postponing the implementation of this system.
in writing. - i voted against the postponement and in favour of referring the report back to committees because the epc needs a thorough review. the european system is having an effect essentially on cutting emissions in production and not in consumption. with the crisis, it has become easier for europe to meet its emission reduction targets. it is therefore urgent to review the objectives.
in writing. - at a time when the european economy is not growing and when businesses and households are generally hit by rising monthly bills, i do not think it is wise to adopt measures which may have the consequence, even if indirect, of increasing the electricity bill and making it difficult for european industry to be competitive. however, the environmental concerns underlying this commission proposal are equally valid and reasonable. i therefore welcome the fact that this report has been returned to the commission for further discussion.
in writing. − the proper functioning of the carbon market is a key instrument to stimulate economic recovery by promoting a more efficient and competitive low-carbon economy. it ultimately promotes the creation of skilled jobs. at present, the carbon price is insufficient to drive sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation. by the end of 2011, a surplus of 955 million allowances had accumulated and is expected to increase. the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2. the commission proposal on which this report is based follows the resolution entitled 'roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050' in which the european parliament called on the commission to take measures to address the shortcomings of the european union emission trading scheme (eu ets) in order to ensure that it operates as originally envisaged and, before the start of the third trading period, to amend, if necessary, the regulation adopted pursuant to article 10 (4) of directive 2003/87/ec in order to implement appropriate measures that may include the retention of the necessary quantity of allowances.
in writing. − this report was intended to amend the 2003 directive on the establishment of a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community (eu ets) in an attempt to circumvent a problem caused by the accumulation of an excess of 955 million emission allowances at the end of 2011. as the allocation of licences is much higher than demand, the price of carbon has decreased significantly. it is a consequence of the operation of this perverse and ineffective mechanism (ets/carbon market), which we have long warned against. the problem is basic. it has to do with the emissions trading scheme itself, with its principles and (market) foundations, and no cosmetic operation, such as the one now attempted, can solve it entirely. the report was not put to the vote because a motion to reject it, tabled by the conservative group, was adopted. we did not support this proposal because we disagree with the groote report on different grounds. while the right wants business as usual in the functioning of the carbon market, we oppose this instrument and want to replace it with a completely different approach, normative and regulatory.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because i felt that the balance between the interests of industry in the context of the economic crisis and environmental interests had not been struck. while it is true that this is not the right time to increase the energy costs of the various economic sectors, we cannot forget all the efforts and costs already made to reduce co2 emissions. so by returning this report to the committee responsible, i hope that the necessary consensus will be reached so that all the parties involved in this process can find common ground.
in writing. − as the allocation of carbon allowances in the eu is much higher than demand, the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2. this reduction in the carbon price is insufficient to stimulate sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation, and the measures envisaged to encourage investment in low-carbon technologies are ineffective. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's maritime borders.
in writing. − the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets) is considered a vital mechanism for reducing industrial emissions in the union through an economic logic. from the outset we have criticised this economic mechanism which subjects the environment to the logic of the market. with the current economic and financial crisis, coupled with a significant flow of external emission reduction credits from the clean development mechanism (cdm) and the restricted provisions related to the transition to a third trading period, there has been a surplus of allowances undermining the functioning of the system, demonstrating the unsustainability of the mechanism. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − this report was intended to amend directive 2003/87/ec establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community (eu ghg ets) in an attempt to circumvent a problem caused by the accumulation of an excess of 955 million emission allowances at the end of 2011. as the allocation of licences is much higher than demand, the price of carbon has fallen significantly. it is a consequence of the operation of this perverse and ineffective mechanism (ets/carbon market). the problem to be solved is structural, it has to do with the emissions trading scheme itself, with its principles and (market) foundations, and it cannot be solved by a cosmetic operation such as the one now attempted.
in writing. - i support this report, which proposes to derogate from the eu ets directive so that action is not taken against aviation operators who do not comply with the requirements of this directive for non-european flights. i think it is essential at this time that the european union gives space for international negotiations to reach an agreement based on a global market mechanism for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from international aviation. i also agree that if such an agreement is not approved by september 2013, the eu ets should be applied against international flights.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed changes to the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme so that european airlines are not put at a disadvantage compared to their competitors on the market outside the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme', considering that the derogation from the application of this scheme to intercontinental flights by september 2013 will facilitate the negotiation of a global agreement to reduce aviation emissions within the international civil aviation organisation.
in writing. − although the aviation sector is currently responsible for around 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions, these have been increasing, with the international civil aviation organisation (icao) estimating that co2 emissions from the aviation sector have almost doubled between 1990 and 2006. the icao also forecasts an increase of 63 to 88% by 2020, during which time the european union has committed to reducing emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels. however, and despite the fact that in 2008 the eu decided to include aviation in the eu ets, the truth is that any regulation on this matter has to be on a global scale, otherwise it will not be applicable. therefore, and with a view to a more comprehensive agreement, i am voting in favour of the proposal to exclude intercontinental flights from the eu ets for emissions during 2012.
in writing. − in 2008, the european parliament and the council of ministers agreed, after a long and careful consideration, to include aviation in the eu ets. this was because of the need to address the rapidly growing greenhouse gas emissions in this sector. since 1990, greenhouse gas emissions from the aviation sector have increased by about 100%. failure to address emissions from the aviation sector would also be inconsistent and unfair to other industries and other modes of transport that are subject to regulation in the eu and member states. in 1997, the international civil aviation organization (icao) was given the task of regulating emissions from the aviation sector. it is therefore very important to reach an agreement in the international civil aviation organization (icao), as this will be the best option for everyone, including the european union. i therefore agree to suspend the application of the eu ets to intercontinental flights for one year in order to facilitate this agreement.
in writing. − the inclusion of aviation in the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets) in 2008 is part of the response to the rapid growth of greenhouse gas emissions associated with this sector, evidenced by the fact that they have increased by 100% since 1990, the base year of the kyoto protocol. this report aims to respond to the very strong negative reactions, both from china and the us, to the measures taken by the eu in this area. following these reactions, a process was initiated within icao with a view to reaching a multilateral agreement. it is expected that this agreement will be reached by the end of this year. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's aviation sector is not excluded from the eu ets. although we believe that it would be appropriate to seek solutions to this problem in a multilateral forum, our position in principle on the market approach which has prevailed in tackling climate change (and the prospect that it will not be changed in the main) has led us to vote against this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste in the transport of dangerous goods. suspension within the european union shall not be an option for more than one year and may not be extended beyond 31 december 2013. what is not clear in the compromise is its results. for these reasons and because of the cosmetic of the surplus value of these subsidies being paid on 30 april 2013, thus covering the year 2012, the very year when the carbon price was low (between 6 and 8 euros) and when airlines can use up to 15% of the credits of the clean development mechanism (which is around 0,4 euros), we decided not to support and that is why we abstained.
in writing. - since the kyoto protocol, co2 emissions from the aviation sector have grown exponentially. this issue therefore needs to be addressed, as other industries are coming up with more stringent emission reduction criteria. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the creation of a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in the community. the commission proposal makes it clear that it is not the eu that is standing in the way of an international agreement on aviation emissions. if, even after the adoption of this proposal, third countries do not make a genuine commitment at the level of the international civil aviation organisation (icao), this is an unequivocal sign that those who call for an international solution within icao are not genuinely committed. however, an agreement reached by icao will be the best option for all, including the european union.
in writing. − in light of the icao council decision of 9 november 2012, the european commission has announced a proposal to suspend the application of the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme to international flights. the rapporteur welcomes the commission proposal and proposes a derogation from directive 2003/87/ec for a maximum period of one year, with the decision to be drafted in a precise manner, leaving no room for secondary interpretations. in order to ensure legal certainty, it is vital to explicitly list the requirements covered for the purpose of the derogation and the number and type of licences that air operators must surrender in order to benefit from the derogation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the suspension cannot therefore be extended beyond 31 december 2012, when the eu expects to be able to sign an international agreement to reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. − the inclusion of aviation in the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) in 2008 is part of the response to the rapid growth of greenhouse gas emissions associated with this sector. this report aims to respond to the very strong negative reactions, both from china and the us, to the measures taken by the eu in this area. following these reactions, a process was initiated within icao with a view to reaching a multilateral agreement. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's aviation sector is not excluded from the eu ets. although we believe that it would be appropriate to seek solutions to this problem in a multilateral forum, our position in principle on the market approach which has prevailed in tackling climate change (and the prospect that it will not be changed in the main) has led us to vote against this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the proposal is a piece of legislation which aims to strengthen the regulation of the banking sector. despite the delay of the trilogue which lasted three presidencies, i welcome this legislative proposal which covers all the main aspects of the banking sector, and in particular, at this time of widespread economic and financial crisis throughout the european union, the issue of bonuses, capital liquidity, differentiation and flexibility in respect of financial instruments. with this proposal we are moving towards a more just and equitable governance for citizens, paying particular attention to the fact that the responsiveness of banking institutions to market needs is vital for the resumption of growth.
in writing. − at a time when europe is seen as the epicentre of an economic crisis with increasingly devastating social, business and political effects, this legislation strengthens the capacity of the banking sector to restructure and respond to the current challenges, but for which europe is beginning to find clear answers. this report, together with the report on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, proposes a reform of the banking sector, commonly known as the 'cdr4 package'. its objective is to strengthen the regulation and stability of the banking sector so that it can actively contribute to the promotion of economic growth. the commission directive in question regulates banks' access to deposit-holding activities and provides for the supervision and evaluation of the activity of banking institutions and investment firms. this report is a good contribution to the production of appropriate legislation and to the improvement of the functioning of the european banking sector. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support a set of measures which help to approximate the legislative provisions resulting from the transposition of directives 2006/48/ec and 2006/49/ec into national law and to help ensure that prudential rules apply directly to credit institutions, as i consider this to be an essential measure for the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - as we know, the financial crisis we are experiencing was triggered by the perversion of values underlying the financial sector. obviously, the banks are not the only ones to blame. human greed and lack of proper oversight have created the conditions for this. the banks that had the most speculative products were the ones that made the most money. at this time of accountability and precautionary measures, the financial sector needs to assume its responsibilities for self-monitoring and recapitalisation if it is to regain investor confidence. however, it cannot be the citizens who pay all the costs of the crisis, including the cost of banking. i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms and amending directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate, because it is essential to increase the credibility of the financial sector through greater transparency.
in writing. − the essential objective of this directive is to facilitate freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services in the financial sector, with a view to deepening the single banking market and the free movement of capital. the harmonisation of national provisions on access to the activity of credit institutions and investment firms is introduced, the powers of the member states in regulating the financial sector are restricted, and the role of supranational organisations such as the european banking authority and the european commission itself is strengthened. countries such as portugal are thus even more limited in their ability to act in this strategic sector, being obliged to authorise the establishment of a bank or a bank branch irrespective of its economic need. one consequence will be the favouring of the financial sector by the great powers, such as germany - the banking giants who in this way seek to take over sectors which they have not dominated until now, destroying some more competitors to restore their profit rates. this legislation is clearly contrary to the national interest of countries like portugal, where the solution to the country's problems requires the nationalisation of commercial banking with a view to financing the real economy and placing it at the service of development and social progress.
in writing. − directive 2006/48/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 14 june 2006 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions contains rules relating to the coordination of national provisions on the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and on the supervisory framework for credit institutions (in particular provisions governing the authorisation of business, the exercise of the freedom of establishment, the powers of the supervisory authorities of home and host member states in this field and the supervisory procedure for credit institutions). however, the financial crisis that has hit the eu has led to the need to amend this directive. the proposal contains the following new elements: provisions on sanctions, effective corporate governance and provisions to avoid excessive reliance on external credit ratings. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the karas report on the directive on access to and supervision of credit institutions, which i consider to be one of the most important laws passed in this parliament. this directive is only overdue, 20 years too late. if it had been adopted at the beginning of the creation of the single market for financial services, it is very likely that the 2008 crisis would not have had the devastating impact it had on the financial sector in general and the banking sector in particular. the union is also responsible, by inertia, for the depth of the crisis, having failed to create an integrated banking system without a single system of rules at union level and without centralised supervision at the same level, instead of fragmented supervision in the 27 member states of the union. better late than never, but a preventive union action could have saved taxpayers a lot of money in bailing out banks and mitigated the recession and unemployment that so many member states are suffering from.
in writing. − the review of access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms and amending directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate aims to ensure a diversified and sustainable eu banking culture that is primarily in the interests of the people and in this respect encourages small-scale banking activities such as mutual credit institutions and cooperative banks. i particularly agree with the points made and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − at a time when europe is considered to be at the epicentre of an economic crisis with increasingly devastating effects on the social, business and political spheres, this legislation strengthens the capacity of the banking sector to restructure and respond objectively to the challenges of a crisis that persists, but for which europe is beginning to find clear answers. this report, together with the report on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms, proposes a reform of the banking sector, commonly known as the 'cdr4 package'. its objective is to strengthen the regulation and stability of the banking sector so that it can actively contribute to the promotion of economic growth. the commission directive in question regulates banks' access to deposit-holding activities and provides for the supervision and evaluation of the activity of banking institutions and investment firms. i consider this report to be a good contribution to the production of appropriate legislation and to the improvement of the functioning of the european banking sector, which is better able to support sound financing of the economy, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of this directive is to give expression to the so-called freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services in the financial sector, with a view to the deepening of the internal market and the free movement of capital. the harmonisation of national provisions on access to the activity of credit institutions and investment firms is established, the powers of the member states in regulating the financial sector are restricted, and the role of supranational organisations such as the european banking authority and the european commission itself is strengthened in harmonising and enforcing national powers and practices. countries such as portugal are thus even more restricted in their ability to act in this important sector, being obliged to allow the establishment of a bank or a bank branch irrespective of its economic need. this is a symptom of a trend which, in the wake of harmonization, is aimed at favouring the great powers such as germany and their financial sector. it is the predominance of the country of origin principle in the regulation of the sector, which will favour the already favoured banking giants who in this way seek to take over sectors which they have not dominated until now, destroying some more competitors to restore their profit rates. this legislation is clearly contrary to the national interest of countries like portugal.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that for reasons of legal certainty and due to the need for a level playing field in the union, a single regulatory body for all market participants is a key element for the functioning of the internal market. in order to avoid market distortions and regulatory arbitrage, the first pillar measures should ensure maximum harmonisation. consequently, the transitional periods granted in this regulation are essential for the smooth implementation of this regulation and to avoid uncertainty for the markets. member states and competent authorities shall avoid adopting any divergent or dominant rules which have an impact on or undermine the principle of maximum harmonisation under the first pillar. competent authorities should be able to assess, within the applicable second pillar procedures, whether supervisory action is necessary in relation to a particular credit institution or a group of credit institutions.
in writing. − this legislation, drawing lessons from the economic crisis which is shaking europe, will provide the european financial sector with the mechanisms and foundations essential to prevent future crises, and will equip the union with the means to promote a more dynamic and stable economy. this report, together with the report on access by banks to deposit-taking activities and the assessment and supervision of the activities of banking institutions, proposes a reform of the banking sector, commonly referred to as the 'cdr4 package'. its objective is to strengthen the regulation and stability of the banking sector and its active contribution to the promotion of economic growth. the commission regulation lays down the prudential requirements to be met by institutions. capital requirements shall be appropriate and of high quality, ensuring the risk coverage of the activity of financial institutions. they should be coordinated at union rather than national level in order to ensure cohesion, stability and soundness in the functioning of the banking system. this report makes a good contribution to building a more solid banking sector, protected from any atypical shocks in the way the business operates. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. othmar karas, in the report we have just voted on, tells us about the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. after what happened to the banking sector from the lehman brothers bankruptcy, most citizens have become critical of this sector and how easily it can change the lives of the depositors who trust them. in addition, the existence of tax havens outside the control of european officials makes banking very unfair, since it favours the holders of large capital because they can access these tax havens while the small saver sees all his savings taxed. i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to create a harmonised framework for all the eu's financial institutions if we are to overcome the crisis. i therefore welcome the call for greater transparency in this sector, putting an end to speculators, to fake banks, to the payment of illegal premiums which are in sharp contrast to the difficulties faced by citizens. banks must be the engines of the economy and not its parasites.
in writing. - we are facing a regulatory reform of the banking sector which has been largely determined by the financial sector itself. this is shown by the history of this process and its final result - welcomed by the major european banks. moreover, this is another blow to national sovereignty and the possibility of developing this sector in the sense of its usefulness for the real economy and the needs of countries such as portugal. the intention is to promote an even greater concentration and centralisation of wealth in the big banks - giant clay-foot banks that continue to have the states dependent on them for credit and that continue to benefit themselves from the cheap credit provided by the ecb, thus extorting the national resources of countries like portugal. the containment of the growth of leverage in the banking system and the development of more robust liquidity buffers is set as the ultimate objective, but this is nothing more than a hypocritical statement aimed at masking the subjecting of the entire sector to the same rules, seeking to eliminate those that in some cases still defended - or had the potential to defend - the national specificity of each country and the financing needs of the real economy to which banks should be bound.
in writing. − the scale of the financial crisis has raised the alarm about unacceptable risks in the regulation of financial institutions. according to imf estimates, crisis-related losses incurred by european credit institutions between 2007 and 2010 are close to eur 1 trillion, corresponding to 8% of eu gdp. in order to safeguard stability and not to break the flow of credit to the economy, several measures were adopted with the costs of these to be borne by the taxpayers. the proposal proposes reforms in the sector to fill the regulatory gaps exposed by the crisis. we cannot repeat the mistakes of the past, much less impose the costs of those mistakes on the taxpayers. we must act on new prudential practices for credit institutions and investment firms.
in writing. − in general agreeing with the european parliament's approach to this instrument and also agreeing with the possibility for a member state to adopt stricter national regulatory measures deemed appropriate at domestic level to safeguard financial stability, provided that the principles of the internal market and the agreed minimum core standards are respected, i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms.
in writing. − this legislation, drawing lessons from the economic crisis that has shaken europe, will provide the european financial sector with the mechanisms and foundations necessary to prevent future crises, giving the eu bold means to promote a more dynamic and stable economy. the report, together with the report on access by banks to deposit-taking activities and the assessment and supervision of the activities of banking institutions, proposes a reform of the banking sector, commonly referred to as the 'cdr4 package'. its objective is to strengthen the regulation and stability of the banking sector and its active contribution to the promotion of economic growth. the commission regulation lays down the prudential requirements to be met by institutions. capital requirements shall be appropriate and of high quality, ensuring the risk coverage of the activity of financial institutions. they should be coordinated at eu rather than national level in order to ensure cohesion, stability and soundness in the functioning of the banking system. i consider this report to be a good contribution to building a more solid banking sector, protected from any atypical shocks in the functioning of economic activity, and therefore i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation is another blow to national sovereignty and the possibility of developing this sector in the sense of its usefulness to the real economy and the needs of countries such as portugal. the end result of this process is to create greater difficulties, costs and obstacles for small-scale banks, mutual funds and the cooperative sector, promoting an even greater concentration and centralisation of wealth in the big banks, their speculative operations and the dependence of the states on the credit provided by these giants of the clay feet. the containment of the growth of leverage in the banking system and the development of more robust liquidity buffers is set as the overriding objective, but this is nothing but a hypocritical statement aimed at masking the subjecting of the entire sector to the same rules, seeking to eliminate those that in some cases still defended - or had the potential to defend - the national specificity of each country and the financing needs of the real economy to which banks should be bound. what this situation once again brings out is the need for public control of the financial sector by means of nationalization, a measure which would contribute to the necessary financing of the real economy.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing that the opening up of the market for groundhandling services in the eu must be balanced, as full liberalisation could lead to a greater degree of instability, forcing an increasing number of groundhandling service providers to leave the sector. the service companies are the backbone of air transport, so an unstable service market would lead to repeated disruptions at europe's airports as well as to significant temporary reductions in normal working hours, so-called 'lay-offs'. however, in the long term, full liberalisation could lead to the oligopoly at european level of a small number of remaining scale-up companies. such an oligopoly would be contrary to the interests of airlines, workers and passengers and would have a negative effect on competition, growth and jobs.
in writing. − ground handling services cover all ground activities (at airports) related to aviation. the revenue generated amounts to some eur 50 billion and employs more than 60,000 people in europe. the efficient provision of these services is essential for airports, air carriers, passengers and also for the optimal use of air transport infrastructure and for the performance of the aviation system in general. in view of the successive crises affecting air transport, the rapid growth of air traffic, the increase in the number of air carriers and the increasing capacity constraints at airports, it became necessary to replace the 1996 directive, which at the time constituted a first step towards the progressive opening and harmonisation of access to the groundhandling market. i believe that the opening up of the market for ground handling services in the eu must be balanced, which is why i support the commitments proposed by the rapporteur, which should allow airlines greater choice, better coordination of ground handling services at airports, and a substantial improvement in the social rights of workers as well as the essential rights of passengers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'landing assistance services at union airports' because it includes provisions aimed at strengthening service quality standards and ensuring an adequate level of social protection and decent working conditions for all workers in the sector.
in writing. − the ground handling services are crucial for the smooth operation of airports. there are eleven categories of ground handling services: (1) ground administration and supervision, (2) passenger handling, (3) baggage handling, (4) cargo and mail handling, (5) runway operations, (6) aircraft cleaning and servicing, (7) fuel and oil handling, (8) in-line maintenance, (9) air operations and crew management, (10) ground transportation and (11) catering. the provision of these services represents a revenue of eur 50 billion and employs 60,000 people in europe. i am not a strong advocate of protectionist policies and tend to support the liberalisation of markets, since i believe that competition is generally synonymous with a higher quality of service and a higher level of satisfaction for the end-customer, in this case the passenger. in this sense, i am in favour of the commission's proposal to liberalize this market.
in writing. − air passenger traffic rose exponentially in the first decade of this century thanks to increased purchasing power of citizens, longer life spans and, above all, the emergence of low-cost airlines. however, we cannot say that the massive increase in access to air transport has been accompanied by improvements in the 11 ground handling services at airports. the report under consideration, by artur zasada, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on groundhandling services at union airports and repealing council directive 96/67/ec. this is a market which, according to the commission, employs more than 60,000 people in the european union alone and generates revenue of some eur 50 billion. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that increasing competition from two to three operators will improve their efficiency and bring significant advantages to all passengers, not only in reducing waiting time both at check-in and boarding and at baggage claim but also in the loss of baggage.
in writing. - what was foreseen from the beginning of this process has been fulfilled: by saying what has not been said, social democracy once again fulfils its role and approves what it rejected a few months ago, under the pressure of the workers' struggle. this is another step in the process of liberalising the airport handling services sector. the commitment now reached provides for the possibility of a third ground handling operator for large airports with an annual traffic of more than 15 million passengers and 200 000 tonnes of cargo in the last 3 years. the consequences of this process of liberalization are well known to workers: loss of rights, degradation of wages and precariousness of working conditions. more liberalization, increased competition between firms and the race to reduce costs are the ingredients for the deepening of this path: the increasing degradation of working conditions, the reduction of jobs, higher requirements for workers and the weakening of passenger safety conditions. for the record, and so that workers in the sector know who is attacking their rights, the final vote on this report was supported by the ps, psd and cds.
in writing. - if we consider that ground handling services cover all aviation-related ground activities (at airports), that the revenue from them amounts to some eur 50 billion and that they employ more than 60 000 people in europe, and that they are essential for airports, air carriers, passengers and also for optimum use of air transport infrastructure, as well as for the performance of the aviation system in general, i think that the referral of this dossier to the committee will prove very important in order to find the necessary consensus in this delicate sector.
in writing. − the ground handling services are crucial for the smooth operation of airports. there are eleven categories of ground handling services: (1) ground administration and supervision, (2) passenger handling, (3) baggage handling, (4) cargo and mail handling, (5) runway operations, (6) aircraft cleaning and servicing, (7) fuel and oil handling, (8) in-line maintenance, (9) air operations and crew management, (10) ground transportation and (11) catering. for categories 3, 4, 5 and 7, market access may currently be restricted. in this report, taking into account that the market for scaled services has already reached a high level of productivity, that process optimisation is practically complete and that many providers are already making very low profits, it was decided to reject liberalisation. i agree with this approach and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission presented on 1 december 2012 a draft regulation on groundhandling services replacing directive 96/67/ec. the regulation aims to reduce delays and improve the quality of services for passengers. the commission proposes that these objectives be achieved by liberalising the market for shuttle services by granting market access to at least one independent third party. however, on the one hand, the ecorys study concludes that the first opening to the market increased job insecurity, and on the other hand, figures presented by eu trade unions point out that wages associated with services have fallen short of inflation and average developments. in addition to this reading of the facts, there is a lack of data relating to delays specifically to groundhandling services, weakening the legal basis of the proposals for regulations. the rapporteur warns that the marginalisation and precariousness of workers and the insecurity of the population are at the heart of attempts at liberalisation. i voted in favour, in the hope that an agreement will be reached which enshrines the rights of workers to protection and guarantees a maximum level of quality and safety.
in writing. the social democrats in the ep have once again approved what they rejected a few months ago under pressure from the workers' struggle. this is another step in the process of liberalising the airport handling services sector. the commitment now reached provides for the possibility of a third ground handling operator for large airports with an annual traffic of more than 15 million passengers and 200 000 tonnes of cargo in the last 3 years. the consequences of this process of liberalization are well known to workers: loss of rights, degradation of wages and precariousness of working conditions. more liberalization, increased competition between firms and the race to reduce costs are the ingredients for deepening this path.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the main objective of the proposal is to establish a ban on returns in the skagerrak. the current order, whereby in some cases very large parts of the total catch are returned to the sea, is probably the aspect of the common fisheries policy that is the most difficult for the general public to understand and support. the fact that perfectly usable fish is thrown overboard at a time when we are having a hard time feeding the world's population is considered incomprehensible and even immoral. the proposal lays down a landing obligation and the supporting rules necessary to monitor and inspect compliance with that obligation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'technical and control measures in the skagerrak' because it provides for measures to establish a ban on discards in the skagerrak and the obligation to land all fish, as well as the supporting rules necessary to monitor and inspect compliance with this obligation, in particular through electronic remote control systems.
in writing. − the diversity of marine species in the skagerrak and the need to regulate fishing activities there make it necessary to harmonise the technical and control measures applied by the union and norway. i hope that they strike the right balance between the interests of ecosystems and fishermen, so as to ensure the sustainability of their way of life and the protection of the natural resources underlying it.
in writing. - since 1986, eu fishing fleets have been fishing in norwegian waters in the skagerrat, the strait between southern norway and north-west denmark. however, following a complaint by norway, eu vessels have been prohibited from fishing in this area as from 1 november 2012. the negotiations were concluded on 2/12/2011, as stated in the minutes approved by the eu and norway at the meeting held in bergen. this document 'includes improvements to the control and enforcement measures applicable to fisheries in the skagerrak and recommends ways of harmonising eu and norwegian regulations on technical and control measures in the area beyond the 4 nautical miles calculated from the baselines'. i voted in favour of this report and hope that it will enter into force no later than 1 january 2014, because people do not understand how it is possible, at a time when so much is being said about the new common fisheries policy and, above all, about sustainable fishing, that fish is still being returned in good condition for human consumption at a time of global crisis when millions of people are undernourished.
in writing. - the skagerrak is a relatively small sea, with a limited number of countries having fishing interests. however, this report has acquired added importance because, due to the obligation to land all catches made in any eu fishery, provided for in the reform of the common fisheries policy under way, the measures proposed in this regulation, which go in this direction, although specific to the skagerrak sea, may become a precedent when applying the landing obligation measure. while we can generally agree with the commission proposal and the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries, we cannot support article 11, which goes further with the compulsory installation on board of a cctv video system for the purpose of monitoring fishing activities. in our view, neither the commission's proposal nor the rapporteur's proposal even safeguards the complete exclusion of small-scale fishing from this obligation. given the specificities of this fishery, in technical and financial terms, the installation of cctv on board would be quite complicated and costly.
in writing. − the main objective of this proposal is to establish a ban on returns in the skagerrak. the current order, whereby in some cases very large parts of the total catch are returned to the sea, is probably the aspect of the common fisheries policy that is the most difficult for the general public to understand and support. the proposal lays down a landing obligation and the supporting rules necessary to monitor and inspect compliance with that obligation. we must maintain a balanced management of marine resources. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to review regulations (ec) no 850/98 and (ec) no 1342/2008 concerning certain technical and control measures in the fisheries in the skagerrak. the establishment of a working group on fishing in the skagerrak made a number of suggestions for improving technical measures and control of fishing activity and recommended the harmonisation of the european union and norwegian regulations in this field. the main purpose of this proposal is to introduce changes in the regulations currently in force, aimed at reducing the level of unwanted catches and discards, which negatively affect the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the skagerrak. in the context of the measures envisaged in the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, this proposal lays down the obligation to land all catches and the rules to support the monitoring and inspection of compliance with this regulation, and proposes the installation of an electronic remote monitoring system (rem) in the fishing fleet operating in the skagerrak. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general approach to the proposals put forward and because i believe that the measures suggested will promote a balanced and sustainable exploitation of local fisheries resources.
in writing. the main objective of the proposed regulation is to introduce technical modifications in order to reduce the level of discards and unwanted catches, which negatively affect the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources in the skagerrak strait. the proposal lays down an obligation to land all fish caught subject to catch limits and also lays down provisions on the treatment of juvenile catches. it is proposed that member states operating in the skagerrak install and use an electronic remote control system which replaces the traditional processing of video images transmitted to the central authority responsible for managing the system with a system for automatic recognition of information, ensuring that no fish of the species listed in annex i leaves the fishing vessel.
in writing. - while i can agree in general with the commission proposal and the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries, we have several reservations with regard to article 11, which goes further with the compulsory installation on board of a cctv video system for the purpose of monitoring fishing activities. in our view, neither the commission's proposal nor the rapporteur's proposal even safeguards the complete exclusion of small-scale fishing from this obligation. given the specificities of this fishery, in technical and financial terms, the installation of cctv on board would be quite complicated and costly.
in writing. − i support this proposal, which aims to assess the consequences and the extent to which directive 2004/113/ec is applied in the member states, to identify existing gaps and to recommend possible solutions to fill them. the importance of reliable information and data should be emphasised. the commission needs to be more transparent in its ongoing infringement procedures and in the measures taken. the creation of a public database of legislation and case law relating to gender discrimination can be an instrument to improve the protection of victims of such discrimination. i also believe that, in view of the role played by national courts, the use of eu financial support and coordination to provide continuous training for legal practitioners working in this field is also an essential condition for the effective implementation of the directive.
in writing. - since 1957, the principle of equality between men and women has been enshrined in the treaty establishing the european community, requiring equal pay for equal work. in this context, directive 2004/113/ec prohibits any discrimination on grounds of sex in the access to and supply of goods and services. article 5 (2) however provides for a derogation from the unisex premium and benefit rule for insurance and other financial services. this derogation has been declared invalid by the court of justice of the european union as being contrary to the objective of equal treatment between men and women and incompatible with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the judgment of the court of justice of the european union also states that differentiations in premiums and benefits resulting from the use of sex as a determining factor in the calculation of these should be abolished. i therefore voted in favour of this report which calls on the european commission to present a summary report on the application of this directive and to propose a new legislative text with binding guidelines in order to eliminate legal uncertainties in this area.
in writing. − equality between men and women is one of the eu's objectives, which we have sought to achieve by adopting the necessary legislation, mainstreaming a gender perspective in all eu policies and promoting specific actions. directive 2004/113/ec of 13 december 2004 implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services was the first legal instrument to implement the principle of equal treatment between men and women outside the labour market. although this directive should have been transposed by the end of 2007, not all member states have done so, or at least not fully. we also continue to await the report on its implementation, which should have been submitted by the commission by the end of 2010. moreover, the derogation provided for in article 5 (2) of that directive was declared invalid by the ecj (test-achats judgment), which has resulted in legal uncertainty which cannot be addressed by guidelines but by the adoption of a new legislative instrument. it is also important to take the necessary measures to strengthen the effectiveness of some equality bodies, in particular with regard to their capacity to act, the shortage of staff and the lack of adequate financial resources.
in writing. - the principle of equality is one of the pillars of democratic states governed by the rule of law. it is because i believe in the importance of this principle that i understand that men and women deserve equal opportunities and must have equal rights in the access to and supply of goods and services.
in writing. - the issue of gender equality has never been so promoted as it is now. if in europe, with the exception of the eastern countries, and in many established democracies, women have long been treated as equals from a legal point of view, the truth is that in the young democracies and in countries where human rights are not respected, there is still much to be done in this matter. at european level, we continue to find that in practice there is not always equal treatment between men and women, particularly in terms of access to and supply of goods and services, as enshrined in council directive 2004/113/ec, and it is therefore necessary to verify whether all member states (ms) have transposed and implemented it. on 8 march this parliament adopted several directives on gender equality, but we continue to see cases of discrimination on the grounds of maternity or access to credit. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague zita gurmai, not only because of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union on this matter, but also because i think that all politicians have an obligation to defend gender equality in its entirety.
in writing. − the committee on women's rights and gender equality decided to draw up this report following the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of march 2011 which found that article 5 (2) of directive 2004/113/ec, which provides for a derogation from insurance and related financial services, is contrary to the achievement of the objective of equal treatment between men and women and is incompatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. in other words, we are talking about the non-application of the directive when it comes to differentiated insurance premiums on the basis of sex, forcing women to pay more in private pension schemes. we agree with the report's view that there should be no exceptions in this matter. discrimination in relation to pregnancy, maternity planning and maternity, access to housing, access to loans and access to medical goods and services is also inadmissible. it is important to stress that discrimination affecting women in access to goods and services is increasing rapidly at the most fundamental level of purchasing power and choice.
in writing. − directive 2004/113/ec, which applies the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services, represented an important step towards the development of gender equality legislation in the eu when it came into force on 21 december 2004. the objective of this report is to assess the impact and extent of the application of directive 2004/113/ec in the member states, to identify existing gaps and to recommend possible solutions to close them. the importance of reliable information and data should be emphasised. the commission needs to be more transparent in its ongoing infringement procedures and in the measures taken. the creation of a public database of legislation and case law relating to gender discrimination can be an instrument to improve the protection of victims of such discrimination. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the transposition and application of council directive 2004/113/ec applying the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services, as it is broadly in line with what it states.
in writing. − this report assesses the consequences and extent of application of directive 2004/113/ec, which has been in force since 21 december 2004. member states were required to transpose the directive by 21 december 2007 and the european commission was required to prepare a report to assess its application by 21 december 2010. the directive applies the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. however, the consideration of gender as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits for insurance and other financial services resulted, until the implementation of the directive, in a differentiation for insured persons. a derogation from the general rule gave member states the possibility to allow proportionate differentiation in premiums where consideration of sex was a determining factor in the risk assessment. this derogation, which was granted without any time limit, was considered by the court to be contrary to the objective of achieving equality of treatment between men and women and was therefore declared invalid. i voted in favour of the report, which proposes that legal certainty be promoted in the future by means of clear and unequivocal provisions.
in writing. − the committee on women's rights and gender equality decided to draw up this report following the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 1 march 2011 in case c-236/09 which found that article 5 (2) of this directive (2004/113/ec), which provides for a derogation from insurance and related financial services, is contrary to the achievement of the objective of equal treatment between men and women and is incompatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. in other words, we are talking about the non-application of the directive when it comes to differentiated insurance premiums on the basis of sex, forcing women to pay more in private pension schemes. we agree with the report's view that there should be no exceptions in this matter. discrimination in relation to pregnancy, maternity planning and maternity is also inadmissible as regards differentiations in access to housing leases, loans and access to medical goods and services. it is important to stress that discrimination affecting women in access to goods and services is increasing rapidly at the most fundamental level of purchasing power and choice.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that the trade sector is one of the most important areas of action from the point of view of eu policy coherence in a development perspective (dpc). if used correctly, trade policy instruments can have a considerable impact on the development of poor countries. the eu's trade policy towards developing countries must aim primarily at promoting and strengthening the results of our development aid policy. promoting development worldwide, even by means other than aid, preserves the eu's core values and respects its treaty obligations. to be more effective in meeting development objectives, eu trade policy should aim to have a positive impact on local, regional and national economies, to promote the diversification of developing countries' economies and to encourage measures aimed at more advanced and income-generating production. the application of higher customs duties on processed products than on raw materials risks contributing to the failure of developing countries to break free from the role of mere exporters of raw materials.
in writing. − the trade sector is one of the most important areas of action from the point of view of the coherence of the european union's policies in a development perspective. trade policy instruments can have a considerable impact on the development of poor countries. the main objective of the eu's trade policy towards developing countries should be to promote and reinforce the results of our development aid policy. to be most effective, eu trade policy must have a positive impact on local, regional and national economies. good governance is fundamental to a country's ability to develop and benefit from trade. the european union should, through its trade policy, contribute to the introduction of good governance, not tolerating corrupt regimes, and requiring transparency and proper procedures before cooperation is initiated, as well as negotiating the inclusion of enforceable human rights provisions in all future bilateral trade and cooperation agreements. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the eu's trade policy, when applied in a coherent and effective manner, is inextricably linked to improving conditions in developing countries. to this end, the impact of trade agreements on local and regional economies should be taken into account in the formulation of trade agreements, by encouraging production and access to globalisation by developing countries in order to reach out to more advanced and income-generating societies and not just simple exporters of raw materials. despite the progress made in the coordination of development policies in the eu, i would point out that much remains to be done, and that the development dimension of international investment agreements needs to be strengthened and the full balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors ensured. i welcome the commission's proposal to differentiate its aid to trade and to focus its attention on the countries most in need, in particular the ldcs and low-income countries, as well as the package of incentives announced by the european commission for small farms in the developing countries. i also think it is important to stress that results in this area will only be achieved if there is a policy of good governance and efficient use of resources by the recipient countries.
in writing. - history shows that no country has achieved long-term sustainable growth without openness to trade and policies to promote and complement it. the positive contribution of trade and investment to the growth and development of countries and regions is also irrevocable. i therefore vote in favour of this report. i would remind you that the eu's trade policy (tp) has clear development objectives and is guided by full respect for the principles of eu external action. i therefore regard pc and aid as complementary vectors in the eu's approach to developing countries. i recognise that the korea free trade agreement (kfta) is a pioneering approach that the eu intends to print in all its future kftas. but my experience as rapporteur for the eu-colombia/peru joint committee tells me that trade relations with developing countries require a different approach and stance than we take in economically equal negotiations, such as with korea. in developing countries, these agreements are powerful tools capable of generating many positive expectations and synergies, as they allow for greater bilateral involvement of the various parties (governments, businesses, civil society) in the implementation and monitoring of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the instruments of trade policy should have a considerable impact on developing countries. to be most effective, eu trade policy must focus on local, regional and national economies by promoting the diversification of developing countries' economies and encouraging measures aimed at more advanced and income-generating production.
in writing. − the trade sector is an important area of action for eu policies from a development incentive (dip) perspective. trade policy instruments can have a significant impact on the development of the poorest countries. the eu's trade policy towards developing countries should therefore be directed towards promoting and reinforcing the results of development aid policy. the eu must play an active role in reducing poverty in developing countries. this can be done by formulating trade agreements that allow developing countries to participate in the international economy and benefit from the advantages of globalisation.
in writing. − the european union and its member states (eu), aware that international trade is a lever for the economic growth of third countries, are the community that most supports developing countries. however, trade alone is not enough to promote the quality of life in these states. we need institutions that work properly and that promote the fight against corruption and tax evasion. the report by mr alf svensson is concerned with a motion for a resolution on the use of trade to promote economic growth in developing countries. the aim is not only to give a new business dynamic - treating eu and non-eu companies on an equal footing - but also to promote the social conditions in which people live and to defend fundamental rights, especially those of women and children, who are often victims of exploitation. i voted in favour of this report because it advocates trade rules for both sides that are properly monitored, it makes commitments aimed at territorial cohesion and it does not forget the necessary environmental solidarity.
in writing. - another report linking eu trade policy with development cooperation policy. the report does, however, admit, although timidly, some of the consequences of the liberalization and deregulation of international trade for developing countries. it recognises that the integration of these countries into the international trading system, within the framework of these policies, may destroy local production and increase dependence on exports. however, instead of questioning this path and defending its reversal, he says that it has not been pursued in the best way: liberalization is not done in a moderate and gradual way, in line with the development of their productive capacities and they must make progress towards a structural transformation. this is unacceptable! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound. a social and environmental touch that does not call into question the essence of these free trade agreements. but there are several positive aspects in the report: from the call for the abolition of agricultural export subsidies, to the recognition of the right of acp countries to impose restrictions on the export of raw materials, among others.
in writing. − the trade sector is one of the most important areas of action from the point of view of eu policy coherence in a development perspective (dpc). the proper use of trade policy instruments can have a considerable impact on the development of poor countries. the eu's trade policy towards developing countries must aim primarily at promoting and strengthening the results of our development aid policy. decent wages and reasonable and healthy working conditions are absolute minimum conditions that european companies must guarantee to their workers in developing countries. however, in many cases, larger companies can take on a greater responsibility towards their employees beyond strict compliance with minimum requirements. there are many good examples which should indeed be recognised as significant and it would be appropriate to study the possibilities for cooperation between businesses and official aid donors in these areas.
in writing. − trade policy can be a means of achieving development objectives. in fact, the trade sector is one of the most important areas of action from the point of view of eu policy coherence in a development perspective and, if used correctly, trade policy instruments can have a considerable impact on the development of poor countries. i agree with the measures presented here to promote development and have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − development and poverty reduction in the world can be stimulated by trade policy instruments. it is the moral duty of rich countries to contribute to the development of the least developed and developing countries, and in this context there is a beneficial policy axis capable of transforming the status quo of these nations. the promotion of the diversification of the economies of developing countries and the encouragement of measures aimed at higher income production help these countries to break free from the role of mere exporters of raw materials. in this respect, it would be good if no higher customs duties were applied to processed products than to raw materials. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. i voted in favour of the report, which supports the commission's proposal to differentiate its aid to trade and to concentrate its efforts on those countries which need it most.
in writing. the report recognises some of the consequences of the liberalisation and deregulation of international trade for developing countries. it recognises that the integration of these countries into the international trading system, within the framework of these policies, may destroy local production and increase dependence on exports. it does not, however, wish to question the model, but to say that it has not been pursued in the best way: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their economic activities, including the production of goods and services, and that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all their economic activities. it therefore supports the model followed.
in writing. - i welcome this report, calling on european companies with subsidiaries or supply chains in developing countries to respect their national and international legal obligations in the field of human rights, labour standards and environmental regulations. i welcome the fact that a wide range of industries and transnational companies have adopted codes of conduct that detail the social and environmental performance standards applicable to their global supply chains. i would remind you, however, that the diversity of accounting, audit and reporting standards in these codes makes it difficult to compare them. i stress that better implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights will contribute to the achievement of the eu's objectives on specific human rights issues and core labour standards. the eu's assistance to governments in third countries in implementing social and environmental legislation is a necessary complement to the development of european corporate social responsibility worldwide.
in writing. − the european union and its member states are the main donors of trade aid. the european union's trade and investment policy should be guided by the general principles of its external action contributing to the sustainable development of the planet, free and fair trade, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights, with trade and investment between the eu, the developing countries (dcs) and the least developed countries (ldcs) being a means to achieve these objectives. this report, which has been supported by me, advocates improving synergies between trade and development policies by giving priority to measures aimed at: promoting sustainable and inclusive development; creating jobs and enhancing human capital and capacity development, reducing social inequalities; supporting the development of the private sector, including small operators, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; improving the trade and investment environment; diversifying trade and investment flows; providing the technical assistance necessary to ensure the appropriate development of measures.
in writing. − the eu, as a global actor, leads the ranking of global donors. however, in the current context of budgetary constraints in the member states, the allocation of funds to development aid has become more difficult. or, to put it another way, it came to be seen as an opportunity to revise "old" instruments. i am voting in favour of this report because it presents innovative alternatives that meet the needs of the partner countries, particularly in terms of financing. i particularly agree with the focus on new forms of financial partnership (the north/south/south triangle) and the preference for non-financial solutions such as technical assistance by eu trade experts, training, or even assistance in wto accession negotiations, so that developing and least-developed countries can also benefit from the benefits inherent in international trade. i would like to conclude with a note on policy coherence for development: i would like to see more coordination between the various commission directorates-general and the eeas, between them and the partner countries, and between the european institutions, so that the eu can continue to lead by example in this area too.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that eu trade agreements and investments should support developing countries' capacity to industrialise, diversify production, move up the value chain and develop their services sector, for the benefit of responsible and sustainable development.
in its communication on trade, growth and development, the european commission takes stock of the last ten years of work on this subject. looking ahead to the next ten years, the commission has been concerned to launch new proposals with the aim of encouraging sustainable development by focusing on trade. trade and investment alone cannot have a major transformative effect on growth and sustainable development, as the structural weaknesses of developing countries, including the least developed countries, constitute an obstacle to their full access to world trade. i therefore agree with the objectives set by the commission to improve the synergies between trade and development policies, in particular by taking into account the needs and capacities of the beneficiary countries and by favouring instruments such as regional integration, which can ensure that these synergies are better exploited.
in writing. the report under review, drawn up by mr tokia saïfi, deals with trade and investment-based growth for developing countries. the resolution is very important because the european union (eu) and its member states (ms) are the largest contributors to development aid. for many years, this aid consisted of monetary support which was not always properly applied or invested in a way that would boost economic growth and job creation in developing countries. the money is there, but it needs to be spent properly and on projects with social benefits and improving competition. this is why the terms on which states can apply need to be clarified to exclude countries competing with the eu, such as russia. it is also essential that this aid should be used as a lever for internal reforms and the fight against corruption and tax evasion. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which calls for the eu to pay more attention to the least developed countries, thereby contributing to improving the quality of life of citizens living in countries facing enormous difficulties.
in writing. − this report addresses eu trade and investment policy with a view to promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, in particular in developing countries (ldcs) and least developed countries (ldcs). between generic calls for synergies between trade and development policies - a pious and inconsequential vote, in the knowledge of the deep contradictions that exist and which, unfortunately, the report does not point out or seek to correct - the continuation of the so-called economic partnership agreements between the eu and the dep is insisted upon and supported. the report is not ignoring positive aspects of the report - which is almost always the case in a report of this subject, scope and extent - but it is only accentuating its obvious contradictions. the committee calls for measures to help developing countries to make up for the losses resulting from trade liberalisation and wto guidelines. without question, neither of them. the position of interference in questions of state sovereignty (associated with political and economic choices that go to the heart of the organization of the state and the functioning of the economy) is, once again, evident. the advocacy of the development of public-private partnerships is a recurring example.
in writing. − trade and investment between the eu, developing countries (dcs) and least developed countries (ldcs) is a means to achieve these objectives by promoting sustainable and inclusive growth for all, enabling technology and skills transfers and contributing to job creation, increased competitiveness and productivity, as well as achieving greater social cohesion and tackling inequality. we should therefore aim to improve synergies between trade and development policies, taking into account the needs and capacities of the beneficiary countries, favouring instruments such as regional integration which can ensure better exploitation of these synergies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on trade and investment-led growth for developing countries because i agree with its assumptions. i would stress the importance attached in the objectives to the simultaneous development of production and the necessary infrastructure, particularly in the area of agriculture, through support for independent farmers and small cooperatives, and to the development of sustainable farming, aquaculture and stock-farming practices, enabling them to create, consolidate and diversify supply chains.
in writing. - articles 3 and 21 teu provide that the union's trade and investment policy must 'contribute to the sustainable development of the planet ... free and fair trade, the eradication of poverty and the protection of human rights ...'. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. it therefore supports the commission's objective of improving synergies between trade and development policies through greater coordination that takes into account the needs of beneficiary countries. it is essential to negotiate the inclusion of human rights provisions, to think about decent wage levels and adequate safety standards at work, alongside innovative forms of financing that result in transparent and equitable tax systems. in view of the relevance of the reasons mentioned above, i voted in favour of this report on trade and growth.
in writing. − this report looks at eu trade and investment policy from the perspective of promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, in particular in developing countries (ldcs) and least developed countries (ldcs). the continuation of the so-called economic partnership agreements between the eu and the developing countries is stressed and supported. there are positive aspects of the report which contradict the proposed measures. the committee calls for measures to help developing countries to compensate for the losses resulting from trade liberalisation and wto guidelines. the position of interference in questions of state sovereignty (associated with political and economic choices that go to the heart of the organization of the state and the functioning of the economy) is, once again, evident. the advocacy of the development of public-private partnerships is a recurring example.
the rapporteur. - madam president, this report is the result of a long and difficult process of conciliation. i therefore thank the rapporteurs who have helped us to have such a clear position today. the role of the parliament is fundamental to the definition of european policies. i think it has been exercised inadequately. as representatives of the citizens we cannot fail to echo their concerns. to ignore them would be to add to the economic crisis a crisis of democratic legitimacy. the european parliament has a clear position on the direction the ecb is taking in the face of the widening economic recession and unemployment in the euro area, with debts growing rather than resolving. the ecb's mandate: when it comes to assessing the consequences of its monetary policy, the mandate has been defined as narrowly as possible. the ecb's mandate is defined as flexibly as possible, if not creatively, when it comes to justifying its participation in adjustment programmes, which include fiscal policy measures, structural reforms, privatisation programmes, etc. let 's be clear: the ecb's mission was defined by the political institutions, it is not written in the stars and it was not defined by the ecb itself. mr. draghi, tell us something, please: who authorized you to overstep the bounds of your mandate by, for example, defining the troika's programmes? some people believe that the independence of the ecb should prevent parliament from making any criticism of its actions. interestingly, for them, praise of the ecb is no longer a matter of independence, i.e. they think that parliament should praise when the ecb does well and keep silent when the ecb does badly or, worse still, there seem to be those who believe, against all evidence, that the ecb is infallible. much of the discussion we have had has been simply to erase any criticism of the ecb as if it were not the right and duty of parliament to give voice to the concerns of those who elected it about the course that has been taken and its consequences. tomorrow this parliament will not only vote on monetary and economic policy options, but also on whether or not we want to have a critical judgment on the performance of an institution as central to european policy as the ecb. let us consider some examples. the report praises the ecb for its decision to cut interest rates in the face of the economic backdrop, but when it comes to criticising an earlier decision to raise interest rates, some on the right have proposed to justify what was a gross monetary policy mistake. we think that mistakes should be clearly identified so that they are not repeated. the ecb has also been a key player in the adjustment programmes. these programmes are not only failing all their targets - growth, unemployment, deficit, debt - they are spreading the recession increasingly to eurozone countries, undermining the very effects of the expansionary monetary policy that the ecb has finally taken on. the ecb's double standards in the financing rules are therefore incomprehensible. it imposes draconian and counterproductive adjustment programmes on the states, it grants banks cheap financing, five times cheaper and without conditions, not even the imposition of minimum credit to the real economy, which remains at absolutely insufficient levels. the ecb has admitted in its own report of activities that it has made significant gains at the expense of the troika programmes, but there are those in this house who insist that this is not in the report of parliament and that it will not accept something as reasonable as the return of these profits to the countries to relieve the burden of the citizens who are paying them. the amendments tabled by the ppe have three main objectives: to make the evaluation of parliament a harmless exercise, to eliminate the possibility of greater transparency and accountability and to glorify the rhetoric of austerity. the questions at issue here are decisive: the limits of the ecb's mandate, democratic control and transparency now define an important part of the european political system. a regime in which a single power exercises an unlimited and self-defined mandate, without democratic control, without obligations of transparency, has a name: dictatorship. if parliament becomes irrelevant, it would allow a dictatorship of the ecb. and i conclude, madam president, by saying: the mandate on the ecb divides us because it is our lives we are talking about. this report is constructive, it proposes alternatives to get us out of the crisis, it praises and corrects, but it also criticises the ecb, because the choice we have to make is simple: we want a ecb that serves the economy and society and not financial speculation.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr langen, in relation to what you have said, namely that we cannot extend the mandate of the ecb beyond the treaties, and i think you are referring to what is in the report, to include the objectives of growth and job creation in addition to the objective of price stability, i would like to ask you whether we cannot do that, whether we cannot even make that assessment? when did you vote for the amendment and extension of the mandate of the ecb, namely to become part of the troika, when did you vote for it? the fellow, me and all of us? because i don't remember! if we can't make references to one side, we can't make references to the other. i would like to know when you voted for this, when you accepted, with a light heart, that it cannot be extended to some things but that it should be extended to others, without us even being able to question it!
commissioner, mr president of the ecb, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin this debate by thanking the various rapporteurs for their work, and i hope that a solution can be found which is balanced and moderate. i would also like to pay a very special tribute to mr draghi for the great efforts he has made during his term of office and for the positive results that have been felt since the beginning with regard to the sovereign debt market. i also cannot leave here a note of strangeness about the fact that we are in april 2013 discussing the 2011 report of the european central bank, it is something that we should certainly change. the european central bank has historically played an important role in price stability. that's what the treaties say. that's what the bylaws say, too. with the crisis, it has had major interventions in the secondary debt market and a greater role for banking supervision is foreseen in the future. it's important to end a cycle that has been bad for companies, banks, states and that has been hindering growth. that's why i wanted to leave two or three notes: mr president of the european central bank, how do you see, within a framework of revision of the treaties, an extension of the powers of the european central bank so that it can intervene more, for example, in the debt market, beyond what is already determined? secondly, since the european commission and the european central bank are here, i cannot help but raise a question about some of the adjustment procedures. i belong to a state, portugal, which has fulfilled its obligations - and done so well. the european internal market is currently contracting. is it not time to review some of the economic objectives, for example in relation to the deficit, for those same countries? and thirdly, i would very much like to know what your position is on the question of bank deposits, and whether a clear word is not needed to reassure depositors in the various states?
i would like to begin this speech with three questions i would like to put to mr mario draghi. firstly, would it not be useful to amend the treaty so that the european central bank can finance the debt of the member states directly and at the same time incorporate the new responsibilities of the ecb resulting from the deepening of the union? at a time when the pernicious effects of the crisis and adjustment in some countries are calling for a wave of recovery and productive investment in europe, how do you foresee the transmission mechanisms of monetary policy actually being reflected in the provision of credit to firms which are ultimately the generators of growth and employment? and finally, what role does the ecb intend to play in this area? without funding for productive investment, without innovation, without the strong political will to change the status quo if necessary, we will not only fall short of the competitiveness we need, but also of the monetary union and the europe we want. the ecb's performance, and in particular that of the president, has been, it must be admitted, quite positive. however, i believe that the ecb should adopt an even stronger preventive stance towards stabilising the euro area, which would not be the result of a series of reactive isolated acts. the ecb, as the supervisor and guarantor of the liquidity needed for the sound functioning of the european economy, must be the engine and guarantor of a robust banking system. the loans that the ecb has been making should be accompanied by a clear incentive to use them to finance the real economy, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. it is clear that credit institutions cannot be coerced into lending to the real economy without criteria, as the inflated leverage of the economy could trigger serious problems for the stability of the sector. however, this prudent financing must be based on the banks' ability to finance households and smes, otherwise it could have perverse, devastating effects, as the present economic crisis has shown.
madam president, mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the central bank, i have commended you and thanked you for what you have done so far. i think it was your intervention that saved the euro. today i have two specific questions about another unconventional role of the european central bank, namely as a member of the troika, and in the short time i have i would like to put two very specific questions to you. first, last december the spanish minister of finance, luis de guindos, told the international press that europe's loan to spain would have, and i quote: a maturity of 12 and a half years, a grace period of ten years and an interest rate of less than 1% and that, at least in the first year, this rate would be very close to 0.5%. do you confirm these values and these deadlines? how do you explain, if that is so, that in countries like portugal, which is a compliant country, the rates are seven or ten times higher and the deadlines much more demanding? a second question on the profits from operations on the sovereign debt of the peripheral countries: they generated, as reported in the financial times, 14 billion euros. the value is, as is known, much higher and has been returned to greece by the shareholders who receive the profits made in these operations. have you proposed that the same practice could be extended to all the countries under the programme? in summary, i think there should be transparency in these processes and the best conditions granted to any member state should be extended to all the others. this seems to me to be the highest form of justice, countries are under the european umbrella, they are all under the programme. in the case of countries like mine, where austerity reaches unbearable limits, these movements would be a huge relief factor. please help me explain to the ordinary citizen, whose business, job or pension austerity has robbed, why this is not possible.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would also like to thank the president of the european central bank, mr draghi, and the commissioner for their presence here and for all the comments made by my colleagues. we have a clear understanding of what unites us and what divides us, but i think we have enough material to reach agreement, at least there are central issues around which we must be united, in the name of what are the expectations of the citizens for whom we were elected. there is obviously agreement on a number of actions taken and carried out by the ecb, in particular in relation to the lowering of interest rates. that 's not what we 're talking about here . what we are talking about here is what changes can be made, what improvements can be made that are not in the ecb report and that are part of what we are here to represent the citizens for. i repeat: we are far from overcoming the crisis, we are still living in the crisis, and it is not by repeating it many times that the crisis will pass. that is why, when mr draghi comes here and talks so many times about the positive progress we have been seeing in the countries under intervention, he forgets some of the real data. he spoke several times about exports, in particular, that exports had increased after the troika's intervention. you better look at the latest statistics, because exports are declining again and it's because, with these austerity policies without any other form of approach, what we're going to have is an extension of austerity, of recession to the whole eurozone as we're already having, by the way, at this moment. and of course we cannot fail to mention that the positive evaluations of the intervention programmes have only come from the troika, and the better the evaluations, the worse the results. even the imf has already acknowledged that austerity and recession are not working. but going into what really brings us here, i just want to point out the important thing: even within the mandate of the ecb, which has been mentioned so much here, there are issues which we cannot accept and that is the proposal of this parliament. we must impose conditionality on banks that are subject to recapitalisation, we are talking about taxpayers' money, so we cannot expect them to inject money into the economy if they do not have some obligations when they do, towards small and mediumsized enterprises, towards households, putting this into practice is a matter of social justice. we must guarantee additional capital requirements for institutions that have benefited from the support of the ecb, we must be accountable to the ecb as a member of the troika, we must ask that the ecb not make profits at the expense of adjustment programmes, we must recognise the consequences of the recession on the sustainability of public accounts and finally, madam president, we must guarantee democracy, we cannot keep removing citizens from what are the most important decisions in their lives, because, mr draghi, democracy is not just about you answering all the questions we may ask you, it is much more than that.
the report has several positive points, starting with the internalisation of security services. we hope that this initiative will be extended to other sectors in this house. however, other aspects of this report seem to point in the opposite direction. the history of the blanket which is too short and therefore either covers the feet or the shoulders is certainly well known to everyone, and the fact that it is short is here to reveal what is essential. the estimates suggest a 56% decline in translation and a 23% decline in interpretation, which puts essential services such as translators and interpreters at risk and puts multilingualism at risk. but there is a solution, there is an alternative. it is enough to approve proposals such as giving priority to members' travel in economy or train instead of business class. is this hard to understand? the failure to understand what is happening in the european union because of the lack of translators and interpreters will cost us much more. the consequence of this decline could be a serious threat to our working conditions and also to the access of european citizens to what is done here. the work of translators and interpreters is indispensable, not only for the quality of our work, but also to ensure that all citizens have access to what is happening and to the work done in the european institutions.
much can be done to curb the expenditure of the european parliament, but we cannot accept that budget cuts can jeopardize respect for the principle of multilingualism or that they affect workers who are essential to the functioning of this house. there are already clear shortcomings in interpretation and translation services, which call into question the ability of members to work in their own language in various circumstances. you don't have to go far. the committee on budgets is an example of what i mean by giving english an unacceptable privileged status in the submission of amendments to reports, but there are many more examples in the day-to-day workings of committees and delegations. however, in addition to last year's cuts, they now want to cut another 56% in translation services and 23% in interpretation. it is unacceptable, just as it is unacceptable that the employment of interpreters and translators should be made more precarious by jeopardizing their jobs and their rights.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague monika hohlmeier and to highlight the excellent work that has been done. in fact, parliament's proposal, the 2014 budget proposal for parliament, can be described as realistic, rigorous and respectful of the commitments made. it should be noted that the european parliament's budget has been decreasing in real terms each year, despite the new powers conferred by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the increase in the number of members as a result of constant accessions. the small percentage of the increase compared to 2013 is due to the fulfilment of legal obligations, namely pension payments which, of course, the european parliament has to fulfil. i also note savings in rent, interpretation and translation costs, which obviously cannot affect the principle of multilingualism. parliament's aim remains that of legislative excellence and to that end it must have the minimum means that this proposal provides. we all know that not having adequate legislation, or having bad legislation, always translates into a high cost, and it is also the cost that is always paid in the last instance by the european citizens. i cannot help but repudiate the demagogy and populist attitudes that are always made around budgetary questions and that seek in every way to take advantage of the difficulties faced by european citizens. to overcome the challenges of today, we need strong european institutions, institutions that play a fundamental, a crucial role and that cannot fail. to do so, they must have the minimum means, but sufficient means at their disposal.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, the question i wanted to ask mr kalfin is this: the resolution we are discussing welcomes the proposed cuts to the budget for translation and interpretation services, but says that these cuts must not call into question the principle of multilingualism. the question i want to ask you is whether you do not think that the principle of multilingualism is already in question today when, for example, in the committee on budgets, to which you belong, as i do, it is not possible for members to table amendments to reports in their own language, but only in english, if you think that the principle of multilingualism is respected?
mr president, commissioner, the draft new guidelines on regional state aid, if adopted as it stands today, will hit the international woodworking centre hard. in addition to the re-establishment of the ban on operating aid for financial, insurance and intra-group activities, as already contained in the existing guidelines, the proposal goes further, extending the activities considered to be prohibited and establishing even stricter rules, which will make them unenforceable, for aid to the outermost regions. these guidelines cannot ignore the content of the commission's proposal for the outermost regions until 2020, published last year, which argues that the regional aid guidelines will continue to grant preferential treatment to the outermost regions. that is not what we find in the text of the guidelines. first, the project does not allow the principle of preferential treatment of the outermost regions to be applied effectively. it ignores all the experience accumulated over the years in relation to the knowledge of the needs of the ors and the results already achieved by the aid schemes and, thirdly, it requires repeated and costly exercises to demonstrate additional costs of the outermost regions in order to justify what the accumulated experience should, in itself, demonstrate. it seriously restricts the range of activities that can be carried out in the madeira free zone, without any justification, with all the negative and discriminatory effects that this entails. in conclusion, it introduces a high degree of instability and uncertainty in the support frameworks for the outermost regions, including the free zone of madeira, which is unacceptable and must be reviewed.
mr president, i would like to ask the house to give me a minute because our colleague mrs morvai has called into question the technical seriousness of the work we have been doing for a year now with five working papers on the legal and constitutional issues in hungary. i would ask you, mr president, to give me just a minute to explain how these documents were drawn up and how they were legally secured, including by the services of this house itself, because it is unacceptable that the seriousness of parliament itself should be called into question in this light-hearted way.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have heard with great interest the intervention of this parliament. the commission is waiting for the report of mr tavares and his group, which will come out in june. i think this very serious report will then be the basis for an informed debate in this house, leading maybe (depending on what the house decides) to conclusions which the house thinks it can draw from the very excellent work done by the parliamentarian. in general, in our democracy it is of course up to a member state to decide on the need for constitutional reform, but this reform has to be carried out with full respect for the values on which the eu is founded, in particular respect for the rule of law, and these are inscribed in our treaties and are not debatable. the treaties have not come out of the blue. they have been decided by all the countries together and in the charter of fundamental rights, which is the equivalent of a treaty. we also know from our treaties that, if the system of checks and balances required by democratic principle is at stake and there is a risk of serious breach of our values, then it is for europe to intervene. this is inscribed in article 7. this is a very strong article, and i agree with mrs harms that it is a kind of atom bomb which you have but which you think twice or three times about using. that is why i think we need to go beyond the specific situation and see what lessons we can draw from what we have discussed now and what we discussed all the other times we have been discussing these problems. the union needs a better-developed set of instruments in order to allow for better intervention if there are problems like the ones we have decided on today. i think we have all read the letter from several ministers of foreign affairs, who are calling for an intermediate instrument between article 7 on the one hand (the atomic bomb) and the infringement proceedings – the method which the commission has at its disposal in order to bring a country before the court of justice – on the other. i know there will be a discussion in the general council. we have heard from the minister that there will be a specialised conference on this topic in ireland, and i believe that the commission, as well as the european parliament, will work towards issuing of the report on proposals in that respect in june. the commission remains seriously concerned about the compatibility of the fourth amendment with the principle of the rule of law and will wait for the venice commission and the european parliament in june. it will make its contribution to the work that is under way on the basis of the treaties, by means of these two instruments. more specifically on what i have already put on the table: i did not only speak about the past two cases which we brought to the court, i also spoke about the analysis we have done on the fourth amendment, the legislation which comes out of the fourth amendment and the analysis we are doing at the moment on at least three elements of law in order to see if we can go for infringement proceedings. we will not wait until june before we embark on infringement proceedings; we just need to look at the latest documents we have received from the hungarian authorities to analyse them in a very down-to-earth and juridical way in order to see what we can take to court. i believe this was an introduction to what we are going to do in june or july – it is up to the parliament to decide – but the two reports will be of the utmost importance. until then the infringement proceedings by the commission will be on the table, and i hope that the infringement proceedings which have been decided by the court of justice will be put into practice in hungary.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, having made my position clear earlier, i have taken good note of the range of views which have been expressed during the debate. many of you have made clear the strong views which you hold about the most recent amendments to the constitution, which were introduced last month. as i said earlier, it is up to the commission to give an assessment of these amendments and to consider the extent to which they respect the values on which the european union is founded. i think vice-president reding has set that out quite clearly. i was specifically asked a few questions by mr swoboda, and i would like to respond, firstly, to the question of whether the council has a clear position. as i said in my introductory remarks, the council has not discussed this matter; therefore, i cannot do so. i am constrained, as i cannot articulate a position that has not been formed. it is not my place to do so, and i have no mandate to do so. as for the second part of mr swoboda’s question, regarding whether we support the position of the commission, of course the presidency supports the position of the commission as laid down by the treaties. the commission is currently conducting its detailed legal analysis, and we support that process without any shadow of a doubt. that is, of course, the role of the commission, and i take that very seriously. as i said, the presidency has already agreed to set aside time at the next meeting of the general affairs council, which will take place next monday, to discuss the request addressed to the commission by a group of four member states to look at the possibility of a new mechanism for safeguarding fundamental values. i am sure that the commission will wish to share some of its thinking with the council. i look forward to the opportunity to have that discussion next week. i can only assure parliament that i will make sure that the various views that have been expressed here inform the discussions which will take place in the general affairs council on monday.
madam president, i would also like to thank vice-president reding, minister creighton and all our colleagues for the debate today; it was a very important one. this debate concerned the values on which the union was founded – democracy and the rule of law. the question is: do we take them seriously or not? i want to assure parliament that, both in our trip to budapest and in the five working documents that we have produced, we have been taking them very seriously. we have been helped by the technical services of parliament. at issue here is the fact that – for our citizens, for the member states and for the union – an institution which fails to take seriously the values enshrined in the treaties will fail in its historical responsibilities. european, hungarian and indeed all european citizens must be assured that this institution will not fail them.
hungary's political leaders have long disregarded european law in the area of the freedoms and guarantees of its people, as well as in the functioning of its democratic institutions, notably with regard to the independence of the central bank, data protection authorities and measures related to the judicial system. this parliament and some of my colleagues have already spoken on this matter on several occasions and it must be dealt with with with the utmost urgency. in addition to the problems mentioned above, there are others on which parliament has already expressed its opinion, such as legislation on the media or on human rights in general. it is important to clearly denounce the situation of civil rights in hungary through initiatives involving representatives of european and international institutions, civil society and the hungarian government. of course we must avoid steps that mobilize hungarians against europe, but this is leadership that does not serve the values of europe and the eu must say so with one voice, without hesitation.
it took a day to destroy trust, but it's gonna take years to rebuild it. in cyprus, the perfect storm came and it seemed that no one was at the helm. a simple question: where was the european commission when it admitted to penalizing deposits below eur 100 000? who's in charge today? there are lessons to be learned: the single supervisory authority must be accelerated, the bubbles must be burst before they burst on their own and serve as an excuse for actions that should never have occurred. secondly, we must define a european policy for deposits, not only those which are guaranteed but also those which exceed eur 100 000, because it is not the taxpayers, but also not the depositors, who must pay for the mistakes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial institutions are able to comply with the requirements of the single european act. and finally, it's time to say enough. there is no longer any apathy in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance, and there is no longer any attempt to address the central issue of fiscal coordination within the euro area.
mr president, i would like to stress that it is clear that there are no easy solutions to the eurozone crisis, and in particular to the banking crises, and that the eurogroup and the various governments of the european union and the european institutions have been refining the criteria, but in my view what has been done in cyprus has represented a setback and a monumental mistake. this means that instead of progress in the study of solutions to facilitate the resolution of the eurozone crisis, we have had a regression here and it has effects not only on cyprus, it has effects on all countries under adjustment and will in future have effects on those who are supposedly helping the countries under adjustment and it is this point that i would like to remind both the european commission and the european council and, in particular, the eurogroup, that we have a strict need to find a european solution to the problems of the countries under adjustment. without a global solution there will be no resolution (...) ' the president withdrew the floor.)
mr president, in cyprus, the eurogroup has split the euro. euro deposits there are worth less than 60% of similar amounts deposited in germany. do not tell us that everything has been done to fight tax evasion. solution one caused the european deposit guarantee to implode, and then it compelled small depositors to allow the money-laundering business to go on. solution two, when it came, had given most criminals enough time to organise capital flight. do not tell us that everything is now being done to accelerate the banking union. why do you not, commissioner, denounce the german government, which is actively slowing it down to suit its own electoral calendar? commissioner rehn, commission, assume your responsibility, stop hiding behind the troika. if you want to move against tax evasion and impose fiscal responsibility, why did you not lift a finger to stop capital flight from my country, portugal? why did you, instead, let the troika bless a tax amnesty for tax evaders and other criminals... (the chair cut off the speaker)
cyprus is the fifth eu country to face serious financial problems and has needed the help of the other european countries to meet its national and international obligations. i believe that the €10 billion bailout for cyprus was not the best way forward, not only in economic terms, because it created a social alarm about the safety of bank deposits, but above all at a political level, with several european leaders contradicting themselves about the same measure being adopted in other countries. however, it should be noted that a solution has been found which protects cypriot banks from insolvency proceedings which would be extremely negative for the country. finally, i would like to stress that the adjustment programme must take account of economic incentives so that the cypriot economy does not collapse like the others which are being subjected to adjustment processes.
in writing. the model found by the eurogroup, the bankruptcy blackmail announced by the ecb (and the eu in general) constituted an unprecedented attack on cypriot bank deposits. last march, eurogroup ministers decided to close down the second largest bank in cyprus laiki bank , forcing depositors, bondholders and shareholders with deposits above €100,000 to suffer losses of up to 60%, which will put the existence of many cypriot smes at risk. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. we conclude that depositors in cypriot banks have a different status from british and dutch depositors in icelandic banks. the memorandum of understanding with measures until 2018 in exchange for a 10 billion euro loan, negotiated between the reactionary cypriot government and the troika will constitute a veritable "agression pact" against the people of cyprus, cutting wages and pensions, destroying public services, proceeding with privatizations and obviously conditioning the use, ownership and destination of the profits from the newly discovered gas reserves. this whole action is cynical and inadmissible.
the rapporteur. - yes, i would like to propose an oral amendment to amendment no 4 tabled by the ppe, to delete the whole of the second part of the paragraph presented, leaving the text as it stands in english: commends the proactive stance of the ecb during 2011 and 2012, in a context in which risks to eurozone stability increased considerably. commends the pro-active stance of the ecb during 2011 and 2012 in a context in which risks to euro area stability increased considerably.
the rapporteur. - i just want to say that i have been faithful to the commitment we agreed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but the report as it has been resolved here today with the adoption of the amendments tabled by the ppe distorts that commitment, it removes any reference to the role of the ecb as a member of the troika, it removes any reference to the countries that are being bailed out and therefore i will vote against my report and i hope that my name will be withdrawn.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting that the reduction of eur 51 million applied in 2011 to the appropriations for transport cooperation under the clean sky joint undertaking was due to a review of the industrial policy approach and that the reduction of eur 60 million in the payment appropriations for projects of common interest of the trans-european transport network was made for calendar reasons and to allow the full use of the amounts carried over from 2010. i stress the importance of the investments in research and development in the egnos and galileo programmes, which have implications for all union policies, and i welcome the utilization rates of 100% of commitment appropriations and 98% of payment appropriations for ten-t projects, which proves the reliability of the projects and their strong ability to be completed on time if they have a sufficient budget. however, i am disappointed that, following the under-utilisation of the payment appropriations for transport security in 2010 and the request for explanations to the commission, no detailed information was provided on the level of appropriations and their use in 2011.
in writing. - on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii, commission and executive agencies, i voted in favour of the budget.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the commission's section iii accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − the report in question, by jens geier, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section iii commission and executive agencies. in accordance with article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission implements the budget and manages programmes in liaison with the member states (ms) and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the european institutions, faced with the austerity measures imposed on many member states, must seek to achieve financial balance by increasing efficiency without compromising legislative excellence. we must therefore pay more attention to budgetary implementation and use community funds to promote growth. the eu must set an example in the sound management of public money, a prerequisite for maintaining the triple a rating the key to meeting commitments to the financial stabilisation mechanism (fsm). in these terms, and taking account of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committees concerned, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the discharge for section iii, commission and implementing agencies is appropriate.
in writing. − on the basis of the council's recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby giving discharge to the accounts for 2011, section iii, commission and executive agencies. in fact, by giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament declares that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and terminates its budget.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii, commission and executive agencies, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. - the crisis facing the european union means that the european institutions are now more than ever required to check each other's accounts. the european commission, which has the power to implement the budget under the treaties, should apply the principle of sound management, as do the member states, at national, regional and local level. once again, an error rate of 3,9% was detected for the union budget as a whole; the commission's proposals for the reform of the structural funds are based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' approach. the centralized and shared responsibility still shows many weaknesses that need to be addressed. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and to ensure that the commission is able to take action to combat fraud. i am voting in favour of the commission's discharge, noting the necessary improvements as set out in this report.
in writing. - i welcome this report, noting that the common fisheries policy is supposed to promote sustainable fishing, which implies both the long-term viability of the fishing industry and a balance between fisheries resources and the capacity of the fishing fleet, so as to avoid over-exploitation of stocks. at the same time, i note the fruitlessness of the costly measures taken to date to reduce overcapacity by adapting fleets to fisheries resources, even though this reduction has been a recurring theme in previous cfp reforms and has been addressed in the court of auditors' special reports. i also express my concern that since the last cfp reform in 2002, catches have been reduced by 1 000 000 tonnes and jobs in the fisheries sector have fallen from 421 000 to 351 000. i therefore believe that it is essential that the commission should draw up as a matter of urgency a report containing data on the excess capacity in the union, broken down by fishery and by country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the court of auditors' accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under review, by jens geier, concerns the examination of the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2011. the european court of auditors must submit an annual report on the financial year to the european parliament. the court of auditors' special reports provide the ep with information on the implementation of funds, enabling it to exercise its function as discharge authority. the court's audits are key to introducing measures to improve the implementation of european policies, including controls on the use of public money, and to combat corruption and tax evasion, which cost more than €2 billion a year. in these terms, and taking account of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committees concerned, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. special attention should be paid to the various special programmes managed by the commission in order to check that they are being implemented properly and to assess whether the proposed objectives are being met. i am talking in particular of programmes such as: 'eu measures have helped to adapt the capacity of fishing fleets to the available fishing opportunities?', 'eu assistance has improved croatia's capacity to manage post-accession funding?', 'effectiveness of eu development aid for food security in sub-saharan africa' etc. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on 13 special reports of the court of auditors in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2011. the court's observations contained in these special accounts form an integral part of parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii commission. i would stress the importance of these specific reports, in which the court sets out its assessments, conclusions and suggestions on a given policy and its benefits. the court of auditors' special reports also provide information on issues of concern to it relating to the implementation of the funds and are therefore very useful to parliament in the exercise of its function as discharge authority.
in writing. - this report analyses 15 special reports drawn up by the court of auditors on a wide range of european union issues, policies and instruments, in which material errors and ineffectiveness of certain union initiatives are highlighted. at the same time, it makes recommendations to the european institutions and the member states. a technical report to be taken into account by the european commission for the improvement of the budgetary supervision and control system.
in writing. − i approve this report, and welcome the fact that on 22 september 2011 the representatives of the bureau and the committee on budgets reached agreement on additional savings measures which were subsequently incorporated into parliament's 2012 budget. i firmly believe that these smart savings measures of almost 40 000 000 euro do not affect the efficiency of parliament's activities or the resources available to each member. i would stress, however, that to save money, less money must be spent and no payments must be made early or late or transfers between budgets. i further note that the new financial regulation and its implementing rules entered into force on 1 january 2013 and brought important changes in financial management, in particular by ensuring sound financial management and the protection of the union's financial interests, introducing financial mechanisms that allow the mobilisation of third party funds as leverage for union funds and reducing red tape by shifting the focus from bureaucratic formalities to performance; i encourage parliament's services, as in past revisions of the financial regulation, to implement these provisions immediately and with the least possible negative impact on parliament's administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european parliament, as i consider that it is duly documented that the european parliament's budget has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control system provides the necessary guarantees in terms of legality and regularity.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the european parliament's accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies. it is essential, especially for the european parliament, to make a clear choice once and for all for good management and spending restraint by supporting a single seat in brussels.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by eva ortiz vilella, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section i european parliament (ep). public money must be optimized and we must be aware that budgetary discharge is a step towards improving its management. i am in favour of greater transparency and therefore advocate greater rigour in the way members use the appropriations. the european parliament has an obligation to set an example in the use of taxpayers' money so that the citizens can have confidence in us. to have more and better europe, we must increase transparency in the use of available funds and step up the fight against fraud and corruption. it requires strict control of the way it implements its expenditure. there must be great zeal, because there cannot be a single euro that is not spent in a responsible and transparent way. although i am aware that there is still a lot to be done to achieve more savings, such as avoiding outsourcing and improving planning, i voted in favour of this report to give the president of the ep a discharge.
in writing. − in general, the rapporteur's conclusion is that there is sufficient assurance that the european parliament's budget has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, thereby granting discharge. however, the report does make some specific criticisms and some suggestions, which deserve our general agreement, despite some pointed disagreement which we noted during the votes and a different view on some of the issues included in the resolution. the references to savings made possible by a greater rationalisation of missions between the three workplaces (brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg) are noteworthy; the costs and lack of clarity associated with the house of european history project, among others. nothing says about the future of the sakharov prize. regrets the decision taken by the bureau in 2011 to cut parliament's interpretation and translation services; in the name of efficiency, the defence of multilingualism is called into question.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge for the general budget of the european union, european parliament, is important.
in writing. − having regard to the statement by the secretary-general on 24 april 2012 that he has sufficient assurance that the budget of the european parliament has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control system provides the necessary guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section i european parliament.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section i, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the annual discharge procedure to the european parliament (ep) is of the utmost importance for transparency and information to european citizens about the ep's administration, governance structure and specific working methods. transparency in the ep's financial and administrative management is avoided through this process. after the european bodies' monitoring and control of the implementation of the 2011 budget, i am voting in favour of this report, as i consider that the principles of sound financial management have been met.
in writing. − in general, the rapporteur's conclusion is that there is sufficient assurance that the european parliament's budget has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, thereby granting discharge. the references to savings made possible by a greater rationalisation of missions between the three workplaces (brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg) and the costs and lack of clarity associated with the house of european history project, among others, are noteworthy. regrets the decision taken by the bureau in 2011 to cut parliament's interpretation and translation services in the name of 'efficiency', undermining the defence of multilingualism;
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that delays in contracting for major infrastructure programmes and the withholding of budget support payments have led to individual commitments and payments being 13% and 16% below target in 2011 respectively. i would also like to reiterate my particular concern about the low rate of commitment of the 10th edf regional envelope (31%), just two years before the end of the programming period. in my view, it is the commission's duty to make every effort to ensure that this envelope is properly used and to draw lessons from the present delays for the next programming period. on the other hand, i welcome the introduction of the financial management basic guide to improve the knowledge of contractors and beneficiaries about financial management and eu eligibility rules. however, i would stress that the commission should improve the management of contract award procedures by making the selection criteria clearer and documenting the evaluation process better, and by improving the quality of the monitoring of grant contracts, in order to reduce the high number of errors detected in project payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european development funds, as i consider that this fund plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in poverty reduction, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries and the octs into the world economy.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the edf accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report in question, by søren bo søndergaard, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds (edfs) for the financial year 2011. the edf is the european union's (eu) main financial instrument for development cooperation with the so-called acp countries, i.e. the african, caribbean and pacific states, with the aim of reducing and eventually eradicating poverty. although the court of auditors (coa) refers in its opinion to the existence of a high rate of coding errors, which is a cause for concern, the fact is that the coa considers that the final annual accounts of the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs faithfully reflect, in all material respects, the financial situation of the edfs as at 31 december 2011 and that the expenditure and commitments are free from material errors. in these terms, and taking account of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on development, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report stresses the need for the european development fund (edf) the eu's main financial instrument for development cooperation to be integrated into the eu budget. however, it welcomes the commission's commitment to propose the integration of the edf in the 2020 budget when the cotonou agreement expires. this amendment has been long sought, providing the eu's development cooperation and aid policy with more robust and predictable means, as well as being more easily scrutinised by the institutions responsible for approving the budget. the report stresses the need for greater control and supervision by the commission to prevent misuse of money and calls on the commission to train national budget managers in the beneficiary countries to improve their capacity for control and supervision. we are opposed to the paragraph on epas and the free trade agreement with the acp countries. it considers that trade relations, in accordance with wto principles, are crucial for developing countries. we can't accept that.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. the vote in favour of the 2011 discharge report for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds (edf) is in that sense.
in writing. − having regard to the opinion of the committee on development, the council's recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of this report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. the european development fund, which is financed directly by the member states, is not part of the union budget but has its own financial regulation, in accordance with the rules laid down by the cotonou agreement. i am in favour of the discharge of the european development fund, stressing the importance of its inclusion in the union's multiannual financial framework in order to eliminate duplication of existing funds and instruments.
in writing. − the report stresses the need for the european development fund (edf) the eu's main financial instrument for development cooperation to be integrated into the eu budget. this amendment has been long sought, providing the eu's development cooperation and aid policy with more robust and predictable means, as well as being more easily scrutinised by the institutions responsible for approving the budget. we are opposed to the paragraph on epas and free trade agreements with acp countries. the report considers that trade relations, 'in accordance with wto principles', are crucial for developing countries. we can't accept that.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking note of the replies to the court of auditors' observations and agreeing with the court of auditors' recommendations that budget managers should improve the design, coordination and implementation of public procurement procedures through appropriate controls and better guidance. i also recommend stricter application of the rules on the award of contracts, which all the institutions of the union are obliged to respect. i also note that in 2011 the european council and the council had an amount of eur 506 842 003,08 (eur 642 000 000 in 2010) in commitment appropriations, with a 90% utilisation rate below that of 2010, which makes me express my concern that the under-utilisation rate has increased and continues to be high. i also believe that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of their financial management and to better accountability by both institutions and i note that, contrary to what the council claims, there is no 'gentlemen's agreement' between parliament and the council as regards the discharge of the council.
in writing. - having regard to the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ii european council and council,
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge of the european council and the council for defending the postponement of the allocation of the discharge to the secretary-general of the council. this situation needs to be reviewed and due attention given to the recommendations of the court of auditors which, among other things, recommends 'a stricter application of the rules on the award of contracts, which all the institutions of the union are obliged to comply with'.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the states of the european union, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european council and council, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes to postpone the decision granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2011. the basis for this delay is the old dispute between the council and parliament. the council maintains that there is a gentlemen's agreement dating from 1970 in which the council and parliament will not scrutinise the implementation of their respective budgets. the council is thus excused from sending documents relating to the implementation of the budget, from meeting or answering parliament's questions on this subject. parliament thus has no knowledge of the council's accounts, despite its participation in the discharge procedure. parliament considered that the council's expenditure should be examined in the same way as that of the other institutions. this delay is based on the council's lack of transparency and accountability. we supported this report.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, as far as the european council and the council are concerned, we continue to face less transparent situations and the absence of answers to a number of questions which have been addressed to the secretary-general of the council. i believe that all the institutions of the union have a duty to respect the same standards of transparency, and i am convinced that parliament and the council, as co-legislators, should apply the same standards of transparency, and that the council should improve its performance in this area without delay. that is why i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge for the european council and the council.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ii european council and council having regard to the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institutions' replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ii european council and council, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the rapporteur for this document believes that all european institutions should follow the same rules on transparency, since they are accountable to the citizens of the union. i agree with these statements and with the separation of the budget of the european council and the council, for a better understanding of the accounts, and i am in favour of postponing the discharge.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes to postpone the decision granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2011. the council maintains that there is a 'gentlemen's agreement' dating from 1970, in which the council and parliament will not scrutinise the implementation of their respective budgets. the council is thus excused from sending documents relating to discharge to parliament. the rapporteur believes that the council's expenditure should be examined in the same way as that of the other institutions, a position which we support.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by welcoming the fact that the court of auditors has concluded, on the basis of its audit work, that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2011 relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error. however, i am concerned that the number of cases pending before the general court is still very high in 2011, and stress the importance of a swift administration of justice for the proper functioning not only of the institutions but also of the economy, as it increases legal certainty. i therefore recommend that the court of justice examine the type of organisational changes that could lead to a reduction in the number of cases pending and i also consider that the general court needs a reinforcement of human resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iv court of justice and i welcome the fact that the court of justice has drawn up a complete and detailed annual activity report and has included in this report detailed information on its management of human resources, as requested by parliament.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the states of the european union, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the court of justice, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by ryszard czarnecki, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section iv court of justice. the court of justice is responsible for ensuring that legislation adopted by the european parliament is applied in the same way in all the member states. it also resolves disputes between national governments and the european institutions, as well as conflicts between companies, individuals and organisations that feel they have been wronged by a european institution. the implementation of the court's budget is not flawed. therefore, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the report on the discharge of the court of justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iv court of justice, having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control, the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institutions' replies, and having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union,
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iv court of justice, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. - the audit work carried out by the court of auditors has not revealed any shortcomings in the implementation of the budget, stressing that it serves only administrative purposes. since no material error has been detected, i shall vote in favour of discharge to the court of justice. however, i would like to stress that the number of pending cases remains high and that measures are therefore necessary to reverse this trend.
in writing. − i approve of this report, starting by congratulating myself on the improvement in the financial management of the court of auditors, in particular through the introduction of systematic monitoring of the implementation of recommendations by the audited entities, considering that the rate achieved is a very positive result and would like to know what the average period was between the delivery of these assessments and the receipt of responses from the audited entities. i would remind you that the court of auditors needs to meet timetables, as is the case with the court of auditors' special reports, because the rate of compliance with reports adopted in good time must be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the court of auditors for the financial year 2011. i agree with the rapporteur and believe that the gender balance at the level of directors and heads of unit is still very disproportionate (72% men and 28% women). i welcome the fact that the number of women in the ad grade is increasing. finally, i think it is important that the geographical balance of staff at all levels be maintained and that the allocation be made also by nationality.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the court of auditors' accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by ryszard czarnecki, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section v court of auditors. the court of auditors, set up in 1975 and based in luxembourg, is responsible for monitoring the eu's finances, i.e. how public money is used. i agree with the recommendations of the rapporteur and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - the court of auditors, as the main body responsible for the supervision of all the european institutions, must also be subject to supervision. it is noted that the audit carried out by an external body was largely positive. the internal audit report was also positive, with most of its recommendations accepted and applied in advance in several action plans. hence my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section v court of auditors, on the basis of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament. i would highlight in this opinion the positive note given to the court of auditors for the increase in the number of audit posts in 2011 compared to the number of staff in other services, as well as for the court of auditors' continued efforts to achieve efficiency gains in the support services.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section v court of auditors, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. − since the court of auditors manages the supervision of the other institutions, its audits are carried out by an external body, in order to ensure the same conditions of transparency and the principles of good management. in the successful execution of the financing, i agree to the discharge.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by calling on the eesc to provide detailed information in its annual report on the use of communication funds, including the results thereof. i note the very high rate of implementation of the communication budget and welcome its reduction compared to the period 2012-2013. i also congratulate the eesc on all the initiatives and events it organises to promote its work and to build bridges between civil society and the union's institutions. i believe that the eesc, like all the other institutions, can communicate effectively with fewer resources. however, i regret that in 2011 there was an inappropriate link between the eesc's institutional website and the personal blog of its secretary-general, which only ceased following an incident in which comments were highlighted in relation to the latter, reiterating the importance of separating institutional information from the personal opinions of officials.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vi european economic and social committee. i would like to highlight the eesc's efforts to limit the budget for 2013, keeping the level of 2012 and thus ensuring a flat-rate increase.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge of the european economic and social committee, as i consider that this institution plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in promoting the role of civil society organisations by establishing a 'structured dialogue' between these organisations and the eu institutions.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european economic and social committee, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by andrea češková, is on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section vi european economic and social committee. the european economic and social committee (eesc) is an advisory body made up of representatives of employers, employees and interest groups (trade unions) whose task is to deliver opinions to the council, the commission and the european parliament. it issues about 170 opinions a year. in the light of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − in this report, parliament gives the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee (eesc) a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2011, which means that the committee has respected the european rules on budget implementation and that the committee's budget has been closed. the court of auditors has made its report and found that there are no significant errors. the report welcomes the cooperation agreement between the eesc and the committee of the regions, which has resulted in considerable savings. the reduction of the rate of unused interpreting services requested from 12,3% in 2010 to 8,9% in 2011 was also positive. we voted in favour.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. the vote in favour of the discharge report by the european economic and social committee is in that sense.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vi european economic and social committee, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 in accordance with article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which emphasises positively the decision to disclose the declarations of financial interests of the eesc members, which has already been implemented in 2012.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vi european economic and social committee, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. - i again approve the discharge, this time for the european economic and social committee, underlining the new policy on the rules for reimbursement, which is fairer and more transparent and which i hope will come into force at the beginning of the next term. i would also like to point out that cases of maladministration which have occurred in this instance must be dealt with expeditiously so that they are not repeated.
in writing. - the report welcomes the cooperation agreement between the eesc and the committee of the regions, which has resulted in considerable savings. the reduction of the rate of unused interpreting services requested from 12,3% in 2010 to 8,9% in 2011 was also positive. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, expressing disappointment at the decline in the rate of budgetary utilization and requesting that measures be taken to improve the rate and that the changes introduced be closely monitored. i acknowledge that the committee's new role, as provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, requires organisational adjustments, but i believe that these adjustments could have been provided for in the committee's budgetary commitments for 2011. however, i welcome the draft internal organisation of the committee, which sets out the objectives of cooperation between the departments and the development of synergies in common activities and joint actions. i would ask that you be given up-to-date information on the projects and, more specifically, on the budgetary consequences of the measures taken.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vii committee of the regions. i welcome the fact that the recommendations and requirements made by the committee on budgetary control are recorded by the committee's budget service in a central database and that progress in implementation is regularly monitored.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the committee of the regions' accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by andrea češková, is on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section vii committee of the regions (cor). the committee of the regions, based in brussels, is an advisory body of the council, the commission and the european parliament representing local and regional authorities in the eu and is to be consulted on matters relating to local and regional government, such as employment, the environment, education and public health. welcomes and congratulates the committee on the consistent quality of its annual activity report and on providing an annual overall impact report which is an important tool for the evaluation of its work and notes with satisfaction that the annual activity report contains a comprehensive picture of all human resources at the committee's disposal; in the light of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control and because i consider that the committee of the regions' budget implementation is not flawed, i am voting in favour of this report to give the secretary-general of the committee of the regions discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. the committee of the regions' discharge report is therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vii committee of the regions on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament. i would like to stress that in this opinion the decision to introduce videoconferencing gradually was approved, a decision which generates savings, particularly in travel costs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vii committee of the regions, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the court of auditors' audit report to the committee of the regions found no material material errors, particularly as regards human resources and the award of contracts. i also think it is important to increase the use of videoconferencing, as it will reduce travel costs. i also agree with the rapporteur that committee members, like members of the other european institutions, should publish their declarations of financial interests on the internet.
in writing. - i approve this report. first of all, it is important that the obligation to improve financial programming be fulfilled without delay in order to ensure more effective budget implementation. however, i welcome the ombudsman's 2011 annual management plan, which contains key indicators to assess the ombudsman's performance in meeting its objectives, and the findings of the internal auditor that the ombudsman has implemented two of the three recommendations to help the ombudsman's services improve their internal management and control procedures in processing payment requests. however, i would stress that there is still a need to improve the timely return of information on payments actually made. i therefore ask that the third recommendation, concerning the timely return of information on payments actually made, be implemented without delay. at the same time, a sustainable increase in the percentage of admissibility decisions taken within one month of receipt of a complaint should be required.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section viii european ombudsman. i welcome the ombudsman's 2011 annual management plan, which contains key indicators to assess the ombudsman's performance in meeting its objectives.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the european ombudsman's accounts, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by andrea češková, is on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011, section viii european ombudsman. the european ombudsman, whose office is entirely independent of any government or body, investigates complaints against european institutions, bodies, offices and agencies when they fail to comply with the law or its guiding principles. i welcome the ombudsman's 2011 annual management plan, which contains key indicators to assess the ombudsman's performance in meeting its objectives. for this reason, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section viii european ombudsman on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control. i would highlight in the opinion the request to the ombudsman that, in order to minimise the procedural delays involved, he indicate in his annual report the percentage of resources he affects in dealing with complaints lodged by citizens, and the measures he considers necessary to improve, in particular through the reallocation of resources, the speed and efficiency of the services.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section viii european ombudsman, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i am in favour of the discharge for the european ombudsman for the 2011 implementation year. however, i agree with the rapporteur who is concerned about the average length of time for surveys, 60% are completed in 12 months and 80% in 18 months. i also think it is important to simplify the admissibility procedure so that the time taken for accepting cases can be shortened.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by asking the authority to draw up the annual budget in a way that better corresponds to its needs and to improve the implementation of its annual budget. i reiterate my request that information be provided on the results of the 2010 work programme and in particular on the measures included in its annual report on activities following parliament's recommendations. i welcome the report of the authority's inspection of 13 eu institutions and bodies based in brussels, which aimed to verify whether the public is informed about video surveillance in an effective and comprehensive manner by those institutions and bodies, and suggested that this information and good practices be exchanged with national data protection authorities. finally, i hope that the system of key performance indicators and the system of benchmarks established in 2012 will be fully operational and that the activity report next year will assess in detail the improvements achieved with this system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ix european data protection supervisor. i welcome the court of auditors' conclusion that, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor ('the supervisor') for the year ended 31 december 2011 are free from material error and that the systems for monitoring and controlling administrative and other expenditure have been effective.
in writing. − the authority is the european guardian of personal data protection and as such plays a key role in ensuring that the eu institutions and bodies respect the fundamental right to data protection. the new post-lisbon legal framework has underlined and strengthened the right to data protection, with clear consequences for the activities of the edps, in particular as regards its role as legislative adviser, advising the legislator on legislative activities relevant to data protection in all policy areas. in view of its increased responsibilities, the authority had in 2011 some eur 7 500 000 in appropriations and an implementation rate of almost 90%, which is undoubtedly a positive development. i welcome the court of auditors' conclusion that, overall, payments for the year ended 2011 are correct and that the systems for monitoring and controlling administrative and other expenditure have been efficient. i hope that next year's annual activity report will include a comprehensive overview of the agency's human resources, broken down by category, grade, sex, participation in vocational training and nationality.
in writing. - at the present political moment, when many of the european union states, and in particular my own, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european data protection supervisor, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − due to information highways, citizens' personal and professional data circulate vertiginously in the corridors of the internet. the european data protection supervisor (edps), established in 2001, aims to ensure that all eu institutions and bodies respect the right to privacy of individuals when using their personal data. the report under consideration, drawn up by andrea češková, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ix european data protection supervisor. i therefore, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, vote in favour of this report to give discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european data protection supervisor is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ix european data protection supervisor on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ix european data protection supervisor, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. - i am in favour of the discharge to the european data protection supervisor, the guarantor of the right to privacy of citizens, as the court of auditors' audit found no material deficiencies or irregularities.
in writing. − i approve this report, first of all taking note of the court of auditors' observations and agreeing with its recommendations that steps should be taken to ensure that staff provide, at appropriate intervals, documentary evidence of their personal situation. i also note that the eeas, together with the office for the administration and settlement of individual rights, plans to set up a system for the timely follow-up of these documents. in addition, the eeas should improve the design, coordination and implementation of procurement procedures through appropriate and better targeted controls. i regret that, according to the court of auditors' observations, the risk of incorrect or undue payments persisting in 2012 if the circumstances of staff have changed, even though the eeas has introduced an annual update mechanism.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european external action service, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european external action service is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section x european external action service, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, and the opinion of the committee on external affairs. i stress the importance of the current discharge in establishing a framework for future discharge exercises and which will serve as a basis for recording future developments and improvements in the efficiency of the eeas and its operations.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section x european external action service, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european external action service (eeas) aims to implement a genuine european foreign policy with one voice. the audit identified problems in the launch of this service, but believes that these were isolated cases. it also points to the following shortcomings: heavily staffed services, low representation of officials from the newer member states, high costs in the recruitment process, the need to rationalise activities in missions and the imbalance in delegations between eeas and commission staff. however, like the rapporteur and the court of auditors, i am in favour of discharge, as there were no material errors.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by recalling that, after three years of analysis and negotiations, parliament, the council and the commission adopted in july 2012 a common approach on decentralised agencies, a political agreement on the future and the reform of agencies. i welcome the conclusion of this agreement, although i regret that it did not include decision-making procedures for the implementation of the proposed measures or provisions for control by the european parliament. however, i welcome the court of auditors' reports and in particular its efforts to follow up parliament's requests for the court to ensure a better quality of audits and to facilitate the discharge procedure. furthermore, i am pleased to note that the court's audit reports contain more detailed information than in previous years and i encourage the court to continue this positive trend and to develop more elements of performance audit, both in its annual audit reports and in its special reports.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on unemployment and the management and control of eu agencies, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − the report under consideration, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, is on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union (eu) agencies for the financial year 2011: performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the eu, in order to support the member states (ms) and their citizens, has set up specialised and decentralised agencies to respond to europe's territorial dimension and to deal with new technical, scientific and legal competences. i note that at the end of 2011, the final budget for the eeas headquarters was eur 188 million, with a implementation rate of 91%, and eur 276,1 million for the delegations, with a lower implementation rate of around 89%, and that the delegations' budget had to be supplemented by the commission with a total of eur 252,4 million, with an implementation rate of 85%. therefore, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give discharge to the agencies which are the subject of this discharge procedure for the implementation of their budgets for the year 2011.
in writing. - in just 10 years, the number of european agencies has grown from 10 to 30. the tasks carried out by the agencies are relevant, as is their direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, in particular as regards the quality of medicines, food safety, aviation safety and the control of outbreaks of infectious diseases. the autonomy of agencies, in particular of regulatory agencies and those responsible for independent information collection, is therefore essential. the main objective of the creation of decentralised agencies was to enable them to provide independent technical and scientific assessments. we must welcome the court of auditors' reports and, in particular, its efforts to follow up parliament's requests for the court to ensure a better quality of audits and to facilitate the discharge procedure. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2011: performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, as well as the opinions of the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which have all submitted their observations but have not objected to the discharge.
in writing. − the growing number of european agencies has sometimes created a duplication of expenditure and work. for these reasons, the audit carried out calls for a cost-benefit analysis to be carried out and, if necessary, for the merger of small agencies or services. in addition, it highlighted the lack of transparency or rigour in recruitment, shortcomings in contract award and management and possible conflicts of interest. i am in favour of discharge, but i hope that next year these points will be improved.
in writing. - i would first of all like to express my concern about the court of auditors' observation that the high levels of unused and carried over appropriations and the low level of payments indicate shortcomings in budget planning and implementation and do not respect the budgetary principle of annuality. however, i accept the agency's explanation that during its first year of activities it had to recruit most of its staff and consequently the vacancies were filled late, which had a significant impact on the agency's budget implementation rate. this factor also influenced the estimation of procurement needs and led to a concentration of procurement procedures at the end of the year, which in turn had a high rate of transitions necessary for the implementation of the legal and budgetary commitments entered into. in view of the factors described above and taking note of the agency's statement that it is now in a better position to implement the tasks entrusted to it and to implement its budget, i approve this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, as i consider that this agency plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in the energy sector, with clear benefits for citizens.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. acer helps to ensure the proper functioning of the single european gas and electricity market. it shall support national regulatory authorities in the performance of their regulatory function at european level and, where necessary, coordinate their work. the initial union contribution was eur 4 362 607,98 in 2011. i congratulate this agency because this was the first year that it had financial autonomy. the agency's initial budget for 2011 was eur 5 119 000 (including the contribution of eur 119 000 from the european free trade association) and, based on the annual accounts, it can be seen that the rate of payments reached 74% of the total appropriations managed. i therefore, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, vote in favour of this report to give discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which presents its observations but does not oppose the discharge.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) aims to ensure the proper functioning of the european internal gas and electricity market by supporting and coordinating with national authorities. i am in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by recalling that the initial contribution of the union to the office's budget for 2011 was eur 1 178 785,60, noting that this was the first year in which the office had financial autonomy. i also note the court of auditors' observation that the office's 2011 budget adopted by the management committee presented the appropriations by title and chapter only, not by subdivision into articles and numbers, and that this situation therefore does not respect the principle of specification, and i therefore welcome the office's reply that its 2012 budget is already subdivided into articles and numbers.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which sets out its observations but does not oppose the discharge. i would like to highlight the improvements in the transparency of recruitment procedures.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the main objective of the body of european regulators for electronic communications is to strengthen cooperation between national regulators in order to strengthen the internal market for electronic communications. the court of auditors found some shortcomings, in particular in transitional appropriations, internal control rules and recruitment procedures, but i do not consider them excessive and i gave my approval to the discharge.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by noting that the centre's budget includes revenue comprising payments made by the bodies for which the centre works and by the union institutions and bodies with which collaboration has been decided, in return for work carried out, including interinstitutional activities, and other revenue. i would also remind you that the centre's budget for 2011 was reduced by 85,56%. moreover, the court of auditors' report notes that this reduction is mainly due to a 15% decrease in revenue, reflecting the centre's new pricing policy, which aims to align product prices with their costs. however, i note that the amount of the price stability reserve was lower than the proposed one, as it was necessary to use part of the surplus to compensate for the breakdown of customer revenues already in 2010 and therefore the final amount of the reserve was lower.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt), established in 1994 and based in luxembourg, is responsible for providing the translation services required for the functioning of the various eu agencies. it also takes an active part in the work of the interinstitutional committee on translation and interpretation. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and notwithstanding the recommendations of the rapporteur, i am voting in favour of this report to give discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the translation centre for the bodies of the european union was set up to provide the translation services necessary for the functioning of the specialised and decentralised agencies of the european union. this activity is extended to community institutions and bodies which have their own translation services, with the aim of absorbing any additional workloads. we reject the successive cuts to the centre's final budget, which in 2011 was 8.27%, and the proposal to reduce it by 5 posts from 2012. this proposal further feeds into our concerns, already raised in several debates, that these cuts will deepen discrimination in the use, translation and interpretation of the official languages of the european union, as well as our concerns about the need to defend multilingualism as a cultural value of the eu. we oppose dismissals and/or the limitation of the rights of workers in translation and interpretation services: this leads to a deterioration in the quality of these services and is contrary to the principle of multilingualism. we have defended the principle of permanent employment contracts for permanent posts.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the report on the discharge for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which makes some observations but does not call for discharge.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the translation centre's budget for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge.
in writing. − the translation centre for the bodies of the european union assists the specialised and decentralised agencies of the union in translation services. to offset over-work, they also provide their services to the european institutions and bodies. i am in favour of this discharge, as the court of auditors has sufficient guarantees of the accounts and underlying operations of this centre for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the translation centre for the bodies of the european union was set up to provide the translation services necessary for the functioning of the specialised and decentralised agencies of the european union. we reject the successive cuts to the centre's final budget, which in 2011 was 8.27%, and the proposal to reduce it by 5 posts from 2012. this proposal further feeds into our concerns, already raised in several debates, that these cuts will deepen discrimination in the use, translation and interpretation of the official languages of the european union, as well as our concerns about the need to defend multilingualism as a cultural value of the eu.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting that the centre was granted an amending budget financed by the union contribution from the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, which was fully implemented. i would also point out that the centre receives annual contributions from two third countries which benefit from its work. i am pleased that in 2011 the target was reached and 100% of the planned budget was implemented. i urge the centre to keep the discharge authority informed of the use of these contributions. i also welcome the development of a comprehensive set of processes to monitor and report on the implementation of the annual work programme and allocation of resources, noting however that further improvements are needed, given that 67 out of a total of 77 budgetary transfers were made at the end of 2011, demonstrating weaknesses in budgetary and programme planning.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training, as i consider that this centre plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, especially in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in particular for its contribution to the 'agenda for new skills and new jobs'.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) for the financial year 2011. the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is an agency whose objective is to promote and develop vocational education and training in the eu by providing information and analysis on policies, research and practice in the field of vocational education and training. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of cedefop a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the discharge report of the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which proposes to give discharge.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. - this european centre for the development of vocational training is of the utmost importance to the european union, since it aims, together with the commission, to promote the development of vocational training and continuing training. i am voting in favour of this report, as the audit showed no material errors and deficiencies that would have led to the postponement of discharge.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by welcoming the academy's efforts to improve its performance without an increase in its budget, as well as the results achieved. i also congratulate the academy for having fully responded to parliament's demands and to the current budgetary challenges by drastically reducing its governance costs. i also commend the academy's efforts to streamline and improve the efficiency of its governance, for example by implementing measures to dissolve committees and reducing the number of meetings per year of the board of governors, which should now focus primarily on policy and decision-making at the strategic and long-term level.
in writing. − it is regrettable that since the academy was granted the status of a community body in 2006, the court of auditors' reports on the academy's annual accounts for the financial years 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 have been issued in succession, raising concerns about the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, in particular that the contract award system did not comply with the provisions of the financial regulation. for the first time in 2010, the court of auditors gave a positive opinion, having obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. for the financial year 2011, the budget of the academy was increased to eur 8 341 000, with 96,74% of the appropriations for commitments and 75,21% of the appropriations for payments being implemented. the academy's efforts to streamline and improve the efficiency of its governance should be recognised, as it has succeeded in improving its performance and results achieved without major budgetary impact. i am therefore pleased that the academy has been able to respond to parliament's demands and to the current budgetary challenges by reducing its governance costs.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and in particular my own, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european police college, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011. the european police college (cedol) brings together senior police officers from across europe and aims to promote crossborder cooperation in the fight against crime and the maintenance of public order and security. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the european police college a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the discharge report for the european police college.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, which does not preclude discharge.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge document on the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011, praising the academy's efforts to streamline and improve the efficiency of its governance, for example by implementing measures to dissolve committees and reducing the number of meetings per year of the management board, which should now focus mainly on policy and decision-making at the strategic and long-term level.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the court of auditors has carried out an audit to assess the policies and procedures for managing conflict of interest situations in four european agencies, including the european aviation safety agency, and has presented the results of this audit. however, i regret that, according to the court of auditors' findings, at the end of the fieldwork (october 2011), the agency had not adequately managed conflict of interest situations. i also regret that the agency has not put in place policies for the management of conflicts of interest. i reiterate that the agency should refrain from assigning to a staff member recruited from an aircraft manufacturer certification tasks for the aircraft on which he used to work while employed by the manufacturer, as this could result in a conflict of interest situation and i note that such a situation has occurred in at least one certification process, pointing out that the principle of collegiality for technical assessments and the decision-making process is not sufficient in itself to avoid the risks of conflict of interest.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european aviation safety agency, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011. the european aviation safety agency (easa), established in 2002, aims to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of safety in civil aviation throughout europe. it also has responsibilities for the certification of aeronautical products and their manufacturers. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am voting in favour of this report to give the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european aviation safety agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge document on the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011, noting that the agency has taken a number of measures following the court of auditors' audit and the publication of special report no 15/2012.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by stressing the importance of matching the budget allocated and the resources available to the tasks entrusted to the authority, since a mismatch could result in an imbalance between the staff structure for recruitment of the authority's staff on the one hand and the participation of national experts on the other. i am concerned that the commission has changed the staffing proposed by the authority without clearly stating this fact. it is also important to urge the commission to be fully transparent on this and other issues. in this context, i note the concerns raised in the preliminary conclusions of the imf's financial sector assessment of 2 december 2012 on the union, which recommend that the resources and competences of the esas be increased to successfully carry out their mandates and that their operational independence be strengthened.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european banking authority, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report by the european banking authority is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would stress the need to confirm the funding model of the agency and to adapt it to the european union's transparency rules.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for implementation of the budget.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' statement that it has obtained sufficient assurance that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i voted in favour of the discharge document on the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by reiterating that the european court of auditors (court of auditors) considers the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for the financial year 2011 to be legal and regular in all material respects, stressing once again that the discharge procedure should focus on the previous financial year. i also believe that any progress made since then should be duly noted and taken into account. however, i would point out that the european centre for disease prevention and control brings coherence and complementarity to action in the field of public health by reconciling the roles and responsibilities of the member states, the eu institutions and international organisations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control, as i consider that this centre plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in the field of public health and in strengthening the union's capacity to deal with disease outbreaks and epidemics.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011. the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), set up in 2004, aims to contribute to 'strengthening europe's defence against infectious diseases such as influenza, sars and hiv/aids'. its work is carried out in conjunction with the public health protection services of the member states. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the cepcm discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the discharge report from the european centre for disease prevention and control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the favourable opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011, noting that in terms of payments, budget implementation was up by 8% compared to 2010 and reached 76% of the total budget, compared to 68% in 2010. i therefore believe that the centre should make more efforts in this respect.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by congratulating the court on having carried out an audit to assess the policies and procedures for managing conflict of interest situations in four european agencies, including this agency, and having presented the results of this audit. i regret that according to the court of auditors' findings, at the time of the completion of the fieldwork (october 2011), the agency did not adequately manage situations involving conflicts of interest, noting furthermore that the agency's policies on conflict of interest management material were not complete, declarations of interests were not reviewed or published but sealed, and there were no actions and training in the area of conflicts of interest. however, i welcome the fact that, following the court of auditors' audit, the agency has decided to take a number of measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european chemicals agency, as i consider that this agency plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in relation to the protection of the environment and public health.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european chemicals agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2011. established in 2007 and based in helsinki, echa aims to ensure the quality of life of european citizens by enforcing eu chemicals regulations, including by helping companies comply with the legislation, providing information and promoting the safe use of these products. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the cepcm discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the discharge report by the european chemicals agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the favourable opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge document on the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011, noting that in 2011 the agency was entirely financed by revenue from fees and did not receive any subsidy from the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with a request for further clarification on the agency's contractual relations with ace&ace, a danish video production company based in copenhagen; i note that in 2011 the agency awarded ace&ace a video production contract (eea/com/10/001 - lot 5) with a budget limit of eur 1 000 000. i would point out that the award criteria were very different from those used for the previous call for tenders for video production (eea/cca/07/001 - lot 1) and included restrictive criteria such as 'access to nearby editing services'. i also note with concern that the agency did not take sufficient action with regard to the disclosure of a non-transparent tendering procedure, under which between 2009 and 2011 several contracts were subcontracted to a company established in copenhagen, ace&ace, through another company located in london, n1 creative. in the interests of transparency, the agency should provide more data on its financial management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european environment agency, as i consider that this agency plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular by providing consistent and independent information on the environment, relevant for policy-makers as well as for the general public.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european environment agency, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − the report under review, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2011. the eea, which was set up in 1993, currently has 32 members: the 27 member states of the european union plus norway, switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and turkey. its aim is to help the eu and national governments make informed decisions on the environment. i note that the european court of auditors (court of auditors) considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects. i congratulate the management board and the agency's management for having strengthened the agency's conflict of interest policy in order to avoid problems in the future. i therefore voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of the eea in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011, in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report for the european environment agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the favourable opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011 as additional clarifications are currently required concerning the agency's contractual relations with ace & ace, in the context of a public tender, following the voting line of the epp group to which i belong. the document voted today also states that the discharge authority was informed by the executive director of the agency that olaf had also started an inquiry to find out what had happened and to obtain further information.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by underlining the importance of the mission of the community fisheries control agency (the 'agency') and welcome its efficient and effective performance, which the committee on fisheries had the opportunity to verify during its visit to the agency in october 2012. i would also stress that the political objectives of the cfp imply an increased role for controls in the future and therefore an increase in the funds allocated to the agency in the next multiannual financial framework. however, i would draw attention to the fact that the court of auditors confirmed in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 that the agency's annual accounts show a budget of eur 12 850 000 in 2011, present the agency's financial situation as at 31 december 2011 and show the results of its operations and cash flows, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation and the accounting standards adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european fisheries control agency, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency (cfp) for the financial year 2011. accp, based in vigo, galicia (spain), was set up in 2005 to strengthen the uniformity and enforcement of eu law. to this end, it will ensure that the rules of the common fisheries policy are applied in the same way by all member states. it is also responsible for training inspectors in accordance with new inspection techniques and methodologies. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on fisheries, i am voting in favour of this report to give the executive director of the community fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report by the european fisheries control agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions audited, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, issued by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committees on fisheries, in which i stressed the request to the court of auditors to continue its work on the supervision of the public recruitment and contracting procedures undertaken by the agency.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011, calling on the agency to improve the procedures relating to public procurement, the court of auditors having also identified weaknesses in this respect in its report.
in writing. − i approve of this report, starting by noting that in 2011 the commission's internal audit service (ias) carried out a reliability audit of the operational planning and budget, while the internal audit unit (iau) carried out three reliability audits, namely of the selection process of the working group, a special review of expert contributions to scientific opinions (post conflict of interest), and a mid-term review of declared costs in relation to the authority's final seat. i am also pleased to note that of the 11 recommendations (two very important recommendations, seven important recommendations, two convenient recommendations and no critical recommendations) made by the sai audit, all have been accepted by management and five of the six outstanding very important recommendations have been implemented and await follow-up by the sai, with the remaining recommendation being ongoing. i also note that the ia made one very important recommendation and two very important recommendations and that of the 11 very important recommendations pending, five have been implemented and six are in progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european food safety authority, as i consider that this institution plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in relation to food safety and the protection of consumer interests, with clear benefits for citizens.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european food safety authority, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2011. efsa was established with the aim of improving food safety across the european union by ensuring a high level of protection for consumers so that they have confidence in european food products. it therefore plays a role throughout the food chain, from the safety of food for animals intended for human consumption to plant protection and plant health. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors considers that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects. i therefore vote in favour of the discharge to be given to the executive director of efsa in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the european food safety authority's discharge report is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i would stress the efforts made to monitor the budget during the year, which continue to contribute to a consistently high rate of budget implementation.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge document for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011, recognising that the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year continue to contribute to a consistently high budget implementation rate of 98.47% (and 98.8% in 2010).
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by expressing my satisfaction that the court of auditors has declared that the operations underlying the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects. i also note the court of auditors' observation on the transition of 50% of total commitments in 2011, thus asking the institute to strive to progressively reduce the transition of appropriations in order to achieve an acceptable level of transitions to respect the principle of budgetary annuality. finally, i would stress the importance of the institute's work on the gender approach and the wider integration of women in leadership positions, as called for in recent commission documents on gender equality, such as the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on improving the gender balance in non-executive directorships of listed companies and related measures and the communication entitled 'gender balance in company management: contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european institute for gender equality, as i consider that the institute plays an important role in promoting gender equality, combating discrimination on grounds of gender and raising awareness among union citizens of women's rights.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european institute for gender equality, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − equality between men and women has shown significant progress in recent times and is considered a fundamental right. the report under examination, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2011. eige is a european agency whose objective is to support member states and european institutions in promoting equality between men and women. to do this, it collects and analyses data, develops methodologies and promotes the sharing of good practice. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the european institute for gender equality a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - in times of crisis, such as the present one, it is not only essential that workers' rights are defended, but also urgent that they are strengthened. only the path of progress and social justice can put an end to the swamp situation that the capitalist system has brought us. in this context, equality between women and men is an urgent objective, but unfortunately it is still a long way off. the way forward must be to combat these inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this fight is carried out, on all fronts. we are therefore against any proposal to merge or abolish the european institute for gender equality and for the savings to be made in the name of the economic crisis to mean staff cuts which could compromise its performance. we therefore welcome the establishment of the data and documentation centre institute.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge for the european institute for gender equality is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the replies of the institutions under audit, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011, noting that budget implementation is prepared on the basis of a modified cash accounting, which means that appropriations for payments carried over are recorded together with payments made and revenue received.
in writing. - equality between women and men is an urgent objective, but unfortunately it is still a long way off. the way forward must be to combat these inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this fight is carried out, on all fronts. we are therefore against any proposal to merge or dissolve the european institute for gender equality and for the savings to be made in the name of the economic crisis to mean staff cuts which could compromise its performance. we therefore welcome the establishment of the data and documentation centre institute.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by asking the court of auditors to examine in detail in 2013 the improvements promised by the authority. i would like to recall the key role of the authority in the application of insurance regulation and the new tasks entrusted to it, and therefore consider that the new tasks entrusted to the european supervisory authorities should be accompanied by new resources and a more efficient expenditure system. i conclude that the current funding of eiopa, characterised by a mixed funding system, is inflexible, creates an administrative burden and constitutes a threat to the independence of the agencies and therefore it is important to request the commission to explore options for new funding of eiopa that is sustainable in the long term and safeguards the independence of the agencies in the next review of the work and funding arrangements of the agencies. i also understand that the commission should present the review of the agencies by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report for the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the authority's replies, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, the assent of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would point out that the authority has aligned its recruitment procedures with the recommendations of the court of auditors.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011, asking the commission to explore all options for a new, long-term sustainable funding of the authority, while safeguarding its independence, in its next review of the work and funding arrangements of the agencies, to be submitted by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
in writing. − i agree, considering that the office had a negative budget execution result at the end of 2011 and that the office recognises that the results are a contingent asset. whereas, furthermore, in 2010 and 2011, the institute and the associated dg, the directorate-general for education and culture, worked together to set up appropriate internal structures and procedures to enable the institute to manage union funds in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and to create minimum conditions for its financial autonomy; i think that the definition of these conditions should set clear and measurable objectives. i approve this report.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology has the express objective of contributing to 'sustainable economic growth and competitiveness in europe by strengthening the innovation capacities of the member states and the european union'. the institute awards grants to 'knowledge and innovation communities' which link together higher education institutions, the research sector and the business sector, thereby stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship. the report under review identifies some shortcomings in its functioning, such as: - low implementation rates indicating difficulties in planning and budget implementation; - payments made in 2011 after most activities had already been implemented, a practice that calls into question sound financial management; - a high level of appropriations carried over (from 2011 to 2012) which is not in line with the principle of budgetary annuality for which it is urgent to find the appropriate measures. we abstained on the discharge and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the discharge report for the european institute of innovation and technology.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2011, noting that, according to the annual accounts, the budget of the institute for the financial year 2011 for the period of financial autonomy (june to december) was eur 9 794 873.70.
in writing. − i welcome this report, beginning by expressing my concern that, as in previous reports, the court has found it necessary to introduce a system of remuneration for services provided by the national authorities of the member states based on real costs, and regretting that no progress has been made in this respect since 2009, when a proposal for a new remuneration system was submitted to the management board, but without generating consensus. i note, however, that in march 2013 the agency will present to the management board a proposal for a new payment system and i acknowledge the efforts made by the agency's executives to encourage the management board to take a decision to review the member states' system of remuneration for services on the basis of real cost. i am fully aware that little progress has been made in the absence of a decision by the management board, and i therefore end by only welcoming the approach of the agency's management to ask the commission for further assistance in this matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european medicines agency, as i consider that this institution plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, particularly in the field of public health and the authorisation and supervision of medicines, with clear benefits for citizens.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european medicines agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − the report under review, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, focuses on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2011. the ema, which was set up in 1993 but only became operational in 1995, aims to protect and promote public and animal health by assessing and monitoring medicines for human and/or veterinary use. no medicinal product may be placed on the market without the favourable opinion of the agency. according to the annual accounts, in 2011, 77,7% of the agency's revenue came from the collection of fees, which increase every year, with the relative percentage income of the union contribution being 18,3% in 2011 (18,8% in 2010, or 14% if the collection of surpluses has been deducted from the total union contribution). i therefore vote against this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that, as with other agencies, the executive director of the ema should also be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the european medicines agency's discharge report is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011, in which the european parliament welcomes the creation of a specific section describing the measures taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest and to be introduced already in the agency's 2012 report and subsequent annual activity reports.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by taking note of the observations made by the court of auditors on the costs of unused facilities borne by the observatory. i note the centre's response that it is developing and increasing its efforts in this area and therefore requiring that up-to-date and comprehensive information on the development of this issue be provided. it is important to demand that this issue be resolved as a matter of urgency. i also take note of other observations made by the court of auditors regarding the cancellation of unpaid appropriations not related to legal obligations, the absence of a treasury policy and a policy on exceptions, and the existence of room for improvement in recruitment and tendering procedures. however, i welcome the observatory's replies announcing action on these issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, as i consider that this institution plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies by providing data to help formulate laws and strategies to combat drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the present report, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the financial year 2011. the emcdda, which is based in lisbon, aims to provide policy-makers with information to help them make the best decisions. its mission is to collect, analyse and process objective and reliable data on the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction at european level. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction's main objective is to collect, analyse and disseminate information on drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and disseminate objective, reliable and comparable information at european level. the information should be used to analyse drug demand and the means of reducing it, as well as, in general, the phenomena associated with the drug market. the report draws attention to some weaknesses identified by the court of auditors, of which we highlight: - cancellation of unpaid appropriations not related to legal obligations, lack of a treasury policy and incomplete and improperly organised contract procedures. and, furthermore, the need for the observatory to resolve the issue of facilities which are not being used and which have an approximate cost of eur 275 000. we abstained on the discharge and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the report on the discharge of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011, expressing concern that the court of auditors had identified 51 cases, totalling eur 90 053, in which the appropriations carried over to 2012 were not related to existing legal commitments and should therefore have been cancelled and reimbursed to the commission by the end of 2011.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by regretting that the court of auditors has found the need to improve the management of the agency's assets and has concluded, in particular, that there are differences between the annual depreciation and the accumulated depreciation recorded that need to be justified and that, in the case of internally developed intangible assets, accounting procedures and cost information are not reliable. in addition, it may be noted that there is no evidence of the physical inventory of the administrative equipment being carried out within the required time limit. conclusion that according to the agency, the agency addressed all issues related to its asset management, in particular, throughout 2012, developed and implemented detailed rules and procedures for asset management, verified the correctness of the inventory and, as planned, carried out a comprehensive physical inventory of all its assets in the second half of 2012, which is positive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european maritime safety agency, as i consider that this institution plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in the field of maritime transport protection, prevention of pollution from ships and maritime safety.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the states of the european union, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european maritime safety agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2011. emsa, established in 2002 and based in lisbon, provides technical support and advice to the european union (eu) and its member states on the development and implementation of legislation in the following areas: maritime safety, maritime security and prevention and response to pollution from ships. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of emsa discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european maritime safety agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on transport and tourism.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011, noting, however, that in 2011 the budget of this agency amounted to eur 56.4 million, compared to eur 54.4 million in the previous year.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting with the fact that no appropriate measures have been taken to address the lack of transparency in the recruitment processes reported by the court of auditors in 2010 and that the court has again indicated that the agency needs to improve the transparency of these processes. i therefore urge the agency to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to correct this shortcoming. furthermore, i am concerned that the work of the agency, which sets the pace for information security in europe and which is currently housed in purpose-built facilities on crete, would be fragmented by the division of its headquarters between athens and heraklion, which would significantly increase the agency's operating costs and would be contrary to the principle of sound financial management, adding to the financial and administrative burdens at a time when savings are needed.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european network and information security agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) for the financial year 2011. enisa, based on the island of crete, is responsible for ensuring a high level of network and information security in the european union (eu). in a globalised world and in the digital age, security of data transmission systems is essential if people and businesses are to feel that their activities are not being compromised. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european network and information security agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011, noting that the implementation of the budget of this agency has improved considerably compared to the implementation of the previous year and that the initial contribution of the union to this agency was eur 7 931 858 for 2011.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by recalling that the level of the preliminary draft estimate of revenue and expenditure for the 2014 budget, as proposed by the secretary-general in his report to the bureau, takes into account the rate of increase of 3,58% compared to the 2013 budget. i acknowledge that this proposed increase consists of legal obligations: an increase of 2,20% is due to the additional expenditure in the year in question, which is exceptional due to the election of a new parliament and the fact that it has become a truly independent democratic institution with the application of its own statute for members and their assistants, and an increase of 1,30% is due to other legal obligations. i welcome the plans of the joint working group of the bureau and the committee on budgets to study structural reforms in parliament's budget and hope that this work will present options for savings in the 2014 budget until september 2013 without compromising legislative excellence or the quality of working conditions.
in writing. − the prolonged financial and economic crisis has put increasing pressure on the union's and national financial resources, which in turn have been subject to budgetary constraints, leading to drastic cuts in expenditure in several member states. the european parliament, as the institution representing the citizens, must set an example and demonstrate a high degree of budgetary responsibility, control, moderation and transparency. this budget must be made with austerity and efficiency, keeping up with the last two years of spending restraint. we must not forget, however, that in this 2014 exercise additional costs have to be borne in order to take account of the exceptional nature of the financial implications of the european elections, as well as the transition between legislatures and the costs related to croatia's accession. budgetary restraint cannot mean that the only european institution directly elected by european citizens cannot function properly.
in writing. − my view of the 2014 revenue and expenditure outlook is similar to that which i presented for the clearance of accounts reports. at the present political juncture, when many of the states of the european union, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the ep's 2014 budget shows growth of 3.29% which, in these times of crisis when so much is being done to contain, could seem like a scandal. however, this is not the case if we take into account that the accession of croatia alone should represent an increase of 4%. it is also worth mentioning that 2014 will be an election year for the ep, which means an increase in expenditure. in practice, therefore, there is a budget reduction resulting from various cuts: in travel, in translations, in the freezing of expenditure for members and officials, etc. i welcome, however, the setting up of a working party to look for new savings. i voted in favour of this because i consider it to be a realistic, rigorous proposal and one which respects the commitments made with the accession of croatia to the european union. the small increase over 2013 stems from legal commitments to pensions and other reductions that will not compromise multilingualism. furthermore, what is at stake is the principle of legislative excellence which can only be achieved with stronger institutions so that we can overcome the challenges of today.
in writing. - it is with great concern that we see in this report the defence of the current limitations on the right of members to work in their mother tongue, both in official meetings and when tabled amendments in committee. the lack of any criticism of late access and limited access to translations of documents in the official languages - in particular reports and resolutions voted in committees and in the ep plenary session - is regrettable. we reject any kind of hierarchy or subordination of the official languages and demand full respect for the principle of multilingualism. we also call attention to the fact that redundancies and restrictions on the rights of workers in translation and interpretation services undermine the quality of these services and are a threat to multilingualism, and we therefore advocate the conclusion of permanent employment contracts for permanent posts, the limitation and impoverishment of which will be a threat to the democratic rights of members and citizens. it should be noted that budgetary restraint has resulted in a reduction in the democratic rights of members, especially of smaller political groups such as ours, which thus see their action and possibility of intervention limited.
in writing. - it has not yet been possible to reach agreement on the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff regulation). if this is not achieved by the end of the year, article 312 (4) of the treaty on the financing of the european union provides for the application of the ceilings of the last year of the current mff, and point 30 of the current interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management provides for the extension of the 2013 ceilings, adjusted by a fixed deflator of 2% per year, until the adoption of a new mff. we must use these mechanisms, but we must not forget that we are in a period of crisis and that we must therefore take all the necessary precautions to keep costs down.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2014, which highlights the fact that institutional restraint (taking into account the level of the relevant inflation rates) has resulted in a reduction of parliament's budget in real terms.
in writing. − this concerns the estimated revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2014, with an increase of 3,58% compared to the 2013 budget, due to additional expenditure on legal obligations. the election of a new parliament (and the consequent renewal of members and their assistants during the transition between legislatures) is particularly burdensome in the 2013 budget, representing an increase of 2,20% compared to the previous one. in order to ensure that in future these additional costs are not borne in a single financial year, the rapporteur requests the secretary-general to spread the burden over the whole term of office. parliament must continue to demonstrate a high degree of budgetary responsibility, control and moderation, in line with the current austerity climate. we all welcome the visible signs of moderation accompanied by the introduction of significant structural savings: reorganisation of the translation and interpretation services, reduction of the duration and number of missions and increased use of videoconferencing. i voted in favour.
in writing. - article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that 'the european parliament and the council shall draw up the annual budget of the union' and that they shall therefore cooperate actively in setting budgetary ceilings. although the european budget for the period 2014-2020 has not yet been approved by the european parliament, i am voting in favour of this report which estimates a forecast of revenue and expenditure for the first year of budget implementation. i stress that it is essential that the respective budget and all sectoral programmes and policies enter into force as early as the beginning of 2014, without prejudice to member states and beneficiaries due to the delay in budget negotiations.
in writing. - it is with great concern that we see in this report the progression of the current limitations on the right of members to speak their mother tongue, both in official meetings and when tabled amendments in committee. the lack of any criticism of late access and limited access to translations of documents into the official languages - in particular reports and resolutions voted in committees and in the ep plenary - is regrettable. we reject any kind of hierarchy or subordination of the official languages and demand full respect for the principle of multilingualism. we also draw attention to the fact that dismissals and restrictions on the rights of workers in translation and interpretation services undermine the quality of these services and undermine multilingualism.
in writing. - i approve this report, as this proposal is essentially an initiative to simplify the procedures for the provision of financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area. however, some amendments are necessary and are set out in this interim report. this report has been drawn up because, unfortunately, under the present procedure parliament can only approve or reject the final proposal for a regulation and cannot make any changes to its content. furthermore, following its initial proposal of 22 june 2012, the commission should now update the proposal on the basis of the provisional agreement on the gauzès report on the 'package of two', which specifies the procedures for the euro area. however, this update should not be made in the form of an updated proposal but directly integrated into the final text to be adopted by the council. in these circumstances, it is all the more important that parliament's position be formulated in a transparent manner, for the sake of basic democratic legitimacy and in the interest of achieving a positive outcome for the final text of the regulation.
in writing. - since parliament has to assess the proposal for this regulation positively or negatively and cannot make any changes to its content, this report has been drawn up with the aim of stating the position of the members clearly, for the sake of democratic legitimacy and the final result of the regulation in question. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. the need for the single supervisory mechanism and european banking resolution to be open to non-euro area countries is emphasised, and the need for a speedy and effective recapitalisation of european banks is stressed. the commission also proposes that the european stability mechanism (esm) should not be able to finance banks in non-euro area countries directly (which will be financed from the european budget if necessary), and that a new instrument be created for the indirect recapitalisation of banks in these countries, or alternatively that they join the esm and contribute to its capital. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - following the economic governance packages i and ii, and in order to follow up on the developments which they have brought about, a number of recommendations were adopted today in plenary to be adapted also to non-euro area countries. these recommendations aim to ensure that many of the procedures for requests for financial assistance can also be observed for non-euro area countries, in particular on the possibility that non-euro area banks may be recapitalised directly by the european stability mechanism. i would remind you that, within the framework of the banking union, from the moment the ecb is the ultimate responsible for european banking supervision, euro area banks will be able to request financial assistance directly from the esm.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis, which is showing signs of slowing down, requires action not confined to the member states (ms) that have adopted the euro as their currency. we can have no doubt that the stronger and more united we are, the better chance we have of overcoming the crisis. the road to a future banking union is difficult but will be important in preventing further financial crises. in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. their access to credit on more favourable terms will, even if indirectly, add value to the stability of the euro and help to maintain european cohesion at this time of crisis. i voted in favour of the proposal to create a mechanism to support member states whose currency is not the euro because i believe that everyone has the right to benefit from this financial stabilisation mechanism (fsm) and because the more consolidated the economies of the member states are, the stronger the eu will be and the less subject to the fluctuations of international markets. this gesture of eu solidarity will certainly lead to more stability, more economic growth and more jobs.
in writing. − the creation of the balance of payments support mechanism (bop) for eu countries whose currency is not the euro is part of the process of creating different mechanisms (such as the european stability mechanism) which, hypocritically invoking financial solidarity, aim to impose on these countries measures (here called economic adjustment programmes) of impoverishment and extortion, of neocolonial cutbacks, such as those imposed on portugal, with the known results: closure of companies and destruction of productive capacity, privatisations and liberalisations, unemployment, destruction of labour and social rights, destruction of public services (health, education, social security, transport), wage cuts, increase in the cost of living, poverty. the report argues that the gnp should be guaranteed by the eu budget, which could constitute an additional burden for a budget that is clearly insufficient in the face of the crisis situation and the economic and social development needs of countries such as portugal. the final result is not a reduction in public debts and deficits but an increase in them, destroying national sovereignty and creating economic and financial dependence.
in writing. − the need to provide financial assistance to a non-euro area member state is not excluded. therefore, in order to have a genuine equity plan between euro-area and non-euro-area member states, it is necessary to move in a direction that allows for bank recapitalisation in non-euro-area member states. given the complexity of the matter, the aim of this report is to draw attention to the problem and to present a number of solutions to it. it is necessary to devise and present solutions that can address possible future needs for financial assistance to member states whose currency is not the euro.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the possibility of a european patent for a new type of product, which would be a new type of patent for a new type of product. furthermore, as the esm will not be able to finance banks in non-euro area countries directly (which will be financed from the european budget if necessary), i support the proposal to create a new instrument for the indirect recapitalisation of banks in these countries, or alternatively, the possibility for them to join the esm and contribute to its capital.
in writing. - since parliament has to assess this proposal for a regulation positively or negatively, without being able to make any changes to its content, this report has been drawn up, the aim of which is to state the position of the members clearly, for the sake of democratic legitimacy and the final result of the regulation in question. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. the report stresses the need for the single supervisory mechanism and european banking resolution to be open to non-euro area countries, and also stresses the need for a speedy and effective recapitalisation of european banks. the commission also proposes that the esm should not be able to finance banks in non-euro area countries directly (which will be financed from the european budget if necessary), but that a new instrument be created for the indirect recapitalisation of banks in these countries or, alternatively, that they be able to join the esm and contribute to its capital. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the european parliament has no possibility of amending the content of this regulation, and a report has been prepared which aims to state the position of members clearly, for the sake of democratic legitimacy and the final result of the regulation in question. i agree with the present report which emphasises some key points, such as the growing need to simplify the link between this proposal and the 'two-pack' (applicable to the euro area countries), to make the procedures for granting support to member states in difficulty more transparent and accountable, and to increase the scrutiny of these procedures by the european parliament. finally, i believe it is important that the single supervisory mechanism and european bank resolution be open to non-euro area countries, also stressing the need for a speedy and effective recapitalisation of european banks.
in writing. - the creation of the balance of payments support mechanism (bop) for eu countries whose currency is not the euro is part of the process of creating different mechanisms (such as the esm) which, under the hypocritical pretext of financial solidarity, aim to impose on these countries measures such as those that have been imposed on our country and our people: closure of companies and destruction of productive capacity, privatisations and liberalisations, unemployment, destruction of labour and social rights, destruction of public services (health, education, social security, transport), wage cuts, increase in the cost of living, poverty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the commission, the council and the majority of the ep want this mechanism to fuel the process of extorting national resources from countries - in this case from countries whose currency is not the euro - which will not result in a reduction of public debts and deficits, but in their increase, destroying national sovereignty and creating relations of neo-colonial dependence.
i would first of all like to congratulate myself on the fact that for the first time in this house the taboo on criticism of the ecb has been broken and a report has been adopted today which contains this criticism in many of the places where it should take place, namely by imposing conditions on banking, which receives public money from taxpayers to finance itself, by strengthening transparency, democracy, the accountability of the ecb, and by recognising the role that the recession and recessionary policies have played in destroying what remains of the public accounts. but that said, my vote against my own report and the request to withdraw my name from my report has to do not with what was directly in the report but with what was withdrawn by the amendments which were tabled by the right in this house. and we have come to a final report where all references to the ecb as a member of the troika have been removed, where all references to the countries under bailout and the dramatic situations they are living through as a result of these policies have been removed and, above all, where all references to the undue profits that the ecb takes from the bailout programmes have been removed. there were proposals as simple, as reasonable as these: that the ecb could not generate profits at the expense of what has been the misery of the economy and the lives of the countries that are being bailed out. and in that sense, i withdraw my name.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the statements made by the president of this institution: 'an exceptional year'. that is how mario draghi, now president of the european central bank (ecb), ranked 2011 in the institution's annual report. the bank has also been able to increase its capital base by eur [0-5] billion in the course of the restructuring period. whether or not it was exceptional is yet to be confirmed. if a new cycle has begun, the roots of this new conjuncture lie in 2010: partly as a result of the worsening crisis, partly as a consequence of the expansion of the ecb's intervention in the union, in particular through the adjustment plans it helped to impose on some deficit countries. it is true that the ecb's action has become increasingly determined by the context of the economic and social crisis and the 2011 annual report is undoubtedly a clear reflection of these changes.
in writing. − our colleague marisa matias presented us with an analysis of the annual report of the european central bank (ecb) on its activity during 2011. as we know, 2011 was a year of crisis as deep as 2012 and that forced the european institutions, together with the international monetary fund (imf), to take several measures to support the economy so that the financial situation of some countries did not result in bankruptcy. i welcome all the work done by the ecb to ensure price stability, control financial markets and reduce sovereign debt which must no longer be linked to banks. the ecb must not forget, however, that smes are the backbone of the european economy and our hope for overcoming the crisis. to do this, they need easy access to credit. finally, i would like to call on those responsible for the ecb to try to adapt interest rates to the realities of the countries receiving financial assistance. the ecb must be a bank at the service of the economy, in solidarity with the member states, and not take advantage of its financial weakness to make large profits at the expense of the citizens.
in writing. − the report welcomes the ecb's positive attitude in 2011 and acknowledges the efforts made by the ecb to help stabilise markets. it is worth recalling that in 2011, for half the year, the ecb supported the process of extortion of the portuguese people through speculation on the interest of the debt. the ecb gave money at 1% interest rates to the banks, who then charged four, five or six times more to the states for their funding. in the second half of the year, the ecb was directly involved in the extortion process, this time via the imf-ec-ecb troika aggression pact, signed by the ps-psd-cds internal collaborationist troika. the ecb has imposed bankruptcies, unemployment, the destruction of labour rights and public services, impoverishment. great pro-activity, you know? the action of this troika is illegitimate. it will be neither legitimate nor democratic for the troika to be accountable to the european parliament, as the report argues. the report defends the monetarist dogma of price stability - which has justified the imposition of wage moderation, i.e. the successive decrease in the weight of wages in national income. it advocates the banking union and the conferral of new powers on the ecb. the report was bad enough. it got worse with the vote. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − this report assesses the ecb's performance on four main lines: monetary policy, the crisis, the banking union and the institutional aspects at stake. i believe that the ecb's performance throughout 2011 was relevant and that it helped the member states and the financial sector to better cope with the crisis. the ecb's role is not only to control prices but also to ensure that the financial system has access to funds. during 2011, the ecb's stance in these times of crisis was very relevant, both in terms of its monetary policy and its interventions to stabilise financial markets. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, regretting that the rapporteur has withdrawn her name. i welcome and support your call on the ecb to promote bank financing with practical consequences for the financing of the real economy, particularly smes and households, without which economic growth is seriously compromised.
in writing. − starting with the financial year 2011, this report assesses the ecb's performance on the basis of four main lines: monetary policy, economic crisis, banking union and institutional aspects. the report critically analyses the ecb's activities and makes some proposals to improve its role as the ultimate authority for the monetary policy of the euro. the ecb is proposed to be more accountable to the european parliament and to be able to promote greater gender equality in the composition of its board of directors. the report also stresses the need for a broad discussion of the ecb's mandate and the new tasks it will assume as the supervisor of the european banking system. these two issues may well require amendments to the eu treaty. some critical points in the ecb's performance are related to its late performance, which is more associated with solving problems than preventing them. however, the positive contribution of this body to the stabilisation of the european economy during the current economic crisis is widely acknowledged. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud.
in writing. − this report assesses the ecb's performance on four main lines: monetary policy, economic crisis, banking union and institutional aspects. i support this report because i believe that it is essential for the ecb to provide effective support to banking institutions so that they can subsequently boost economic activity by lending to businesses, especially smes and households. at a time when the ecb will have greater powers to supervise national banks throughout the european union, i think it will be important to discuss the new functions it will acquire as the supervisor of the european banking system.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by recalling that the agency will have to replace half of its operational staff in the period 2013-2015. i urge the agency to manage carefully the duration of fixed-term employment contracts in order to ensure that the continuation of the agency's core tasks is not jeopardised and, therefore, i ask the agency to improve its staff selection processes in order to ensure full transparency and equal treatment of all candidates. i would, however, point out that the agency has made efforts to resolve the problem of carryovers from previous years, but i would urge the agency to continue its efforts to ensure that the principle of budgetary annuality is respected.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european railway agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2011. era, based in lille, france, is tasked with cooperating with the railway sector to develop safety techniques and measures that harmonise european rail systems, are economically viable, increase safety and allow trains to travel between member states without stopping at borders. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the era discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european railway agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on transport and tourism.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge document on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011, noting, on the basis of the court of auditors' report, that the agency will have to replace half of its operational staff during the period 2013 to 2015 and asking the agency to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to manage this difficult situation, which could significantly disrupt its operational activities.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting that the authority has brought its recruitment processes into line with the recommendations of the court of auditors and therefore ask the authority to inform the discharge authority of any additional steps it has taken to improve recruitment processes. in my view, some of the provisions of the staff regulations may constitute a considerable administrative burden and therefore the commission should proceed to a certain level of simplification in relation to the agencies, in accordance with article 110 of the staff regulations. i further note from the annual accounts that 2011 was a crucial year for the authority in terms of establishing and expanding the human resources team in order to equip itself adequately for its new functions and tasks. i note that at 31 december 2012, the authority's staff consisted of 50 temporary agents, three french contract staff transferred from the previous organisation, five contract agents, two seconded national experts and two trainees.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european securities and markets authority, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european securities and markets authority is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge document on the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011, finding from the annual accounts that the standard structure and the general structure of the budget, approved by the authority at the beginning of 2011, need to be adapted in the future to its actual needs.
in writing. − i approve of this report, starting by noting that in november 2009 the cooperation agreement between the foundation and cedefop was renewed for the period 2010-2013, noting that the foundation and cedefop draw up annually, in the context of the cooperation framework, a joint work programme, which is annexed to the agency's work programmes. i welcome the foundation's intention to devote more space to providing information on the implementation of this joint work programme in future r & d programmes. i welcome this and therefore invite the commission, together with the european training foundation, the european centre for the development of vocational training, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions and the european agency for safety and health at work, to explore further the synergies between these agencies and to inform the discharge authority about the possibility of a deeper integration of these agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european training foundation, as i consider that the foundation plays an important role in pursuing a number of important measures to promote employment, in particular through the initiatives 'youth on the move' and 'agenda for new skills and new jobs'.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european training foundation, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. − education and training are two components of the learning process that ensure the development of a country and the well-being of its people. the report under review, drawn up by gerben-jan gerbrandy, focuses on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2011. based in turin, italy, the etf's mission is to help member states modernise their education and training systems in order to improve the skills of their citizens. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the era a discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the year 2011.
in writing. − the european training foundation is a decentralised community agency, based in turin, whose purpose is to support and promote the development of vocational training systems in the eligible countries - the eu candidate countries, the potential candidate countries, the partner countries of eastern europe, central asia and the caucasus, and the mediterranean partner countries. the review report identifies some weaknesses in the identification of the actual contribution to the foundation for the year under review, in the modification of the budget without being defined in advance and in the treasury policy. as regards human resources, it noted the need for the foundation to continue to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures. we abstained on the discharge and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report for the european training foundation is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the european training foundation because it is continuing its work with the partner countries on the basis of the flagship initiatives 'youth on the move' and 'an agenda for new skills and new jobs'.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by praising the agency's contribution to the promotion of high standards of health and safety at work in the european union, in particular in a period of economic and financial crisis and austerity policies. i would stress that better occupational safety and health can make a significant contribution to raising the employment rate from the current 69% to the 75% target set in the europe 2020 strategy. i would like to highlight the agency's contribution in 2011 to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives and in particular to the flagship initiatives 'agenda for new skills and new jobs', 'an industrial policy for the age of globalisation' and 'european platform against poverty'. i therefore call for better use of the agency's recommendations and for capacity building in the framework of the european semester, in particular in the preparation of the annual growth survey and the macroeconomic indicators.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work, as i consider that the agency plays an important role in promoting high standards of health and safety at work, in particular in a period of economic and financial crisis and austerity policies.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by gerben-jan gerbrandy, concerns the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011 i consider that the budget implementation levels for the financial year 2011 were generally better than in 2010, notably the cancellation of c8 appropriations and the reduction of the transition from c1 appropriations to title iii 'operational activities' and i note that the high cancellation rate for the 2011 appropriations is partly due to some vacancies in the agency and the need for the agency not to engage in a major activity (the oshwikipedia project: an online encyclopedia on health and safety at work) before international cooperation is ensured. therefore, taking into account the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of eu-osha discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2011.
in writing. − the european agency for safety and health at work, based in bilbao, aims to collect and disseminate information on national and eu priorities in the field of occupational health and safety, to support the relevant national and eu bodies in formulating and implementing policies, and to inform on prevention measures. the report points to identified shortcomings, such as: - doubling of the rate of cancellation of appropriations compared to 2010, which reveals difficulties in implementing the actions provided for in the annual work programme and in complying with the budgetary principle of annuality; - failure to comply with the obligation to carry out a physical inventory at least every three years. we abstained on the discharge and voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report for the european agency for safety and health at work is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of discharging the european agency for safety and health at work for promoting high standards of health and safety at work in the european union, particularly in a period of economic and financial crisis and austerity policies.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i further note that in 2011 the agency did not receive any grant to finance its operations and that the commission has borne all the costs incurred by the agency in implementing its budget for the financial year 2011. i would point out that this situation has persisted since the agency was set up in 2008.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the states of the european union, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the euratom supply agency, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. the vote on the report on discharge for the euratom supply agency is in that sense favourable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on industry, research and energy.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the euratom supply agency because the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by noting that the court of auditors identified the need to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures, having noted that jury meetings were not always sufficiently documented and that there is no evidence to confirm whether the questions for written and oral evidence had been defined in advance. i therefore call on the foundation to inform the discharge authority of the steps taken to address this shortcoming.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, as i consider that the foundation has an important role to play in promoting knowledge about living and working conditions, in particular when the eu is faced with the challenge of maintaining high living and working standards in a difficult context marked by the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and the committee on employment and social affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions because it promotes a high level of knowledge about living and working conditions in the european union, particularly when the eu is faced with the challenge of maintaining high living and working standards in the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account the court of auditors' conclusions, according to which a volume of payment appropriations amounting to eur 5 187 289 (16% of total payment appropriations) was carried over to 2012, of which eur 3.1 million related to title iii 'operating expenditure', representing 39% of title iii payment appropriations. i therefore urge eurojust to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to correct this anomaly, as the level of transitions is excessive and does not respect the principle of annuality. furthermore, i note that around 96% of funds were committed under title iii in 2011 and the execution rate of payments was 58% in 2011, compared to 59% in 2010, which requires eurojust to present a package of measures to correct the anomalies detected.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the eurojust accounts, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report for eurojust is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of discharging eurojust because of its active and leading role in combating serious cross-border crime, noting that 218 cases of fraud were reported in 2011 and that the number of coordination meetings on fraud increased from 17 in 2010 to 58 in 2011.
in writing. − i welcome this report, given that the aim of this proposal is to clarify and harmonise eu rules on the vat system for vouchers, which will have a positive effect on businesses by eliminating double taxation and uncertainty about tax obligations. it will also help to close the loopholes that facilitate tax evasion by certain companies that take advantage of differences between member states. the new regulation, in particular its objective of creating a digital single market, also fits well into the wider context of the digital europe agenda.
in writing. the new legislation aims to eliminate differences between national regulations on the vat arrangements for vouchers, given the serious market inefficiencies which hamper the effective development of business activities and prevent consumers from taking full advantage of the operation of pan-european schemes for voucher services. the vouchers market represents over eur 52 billion a year in the european union and the clarification of its tax regime will be essential in eliminating situations of double taxation, tax evasion and uncertainty about the tax obligations of companies, especially in relation to their cross-border activities. the european commission is proposing harmonisation of the definition of vouchers and their distinction from other means of payment, the place and time of taxation of transactions relating to them, and common rules for their distribution in the chain of intermediaries to the final consumer. other technical measures relating to the right to deduct, redemption and refund procedures, the tax debtor and other obligations of companies are also covered. i support this report because i believe it fills in the gaps in legislation which are an obstacle to the full exploitation of the opportunities of the single market.
in writing. the european union voucher market is worth more than eur 52 billion a year. this is a significant figure and has alerted the union to the need for a review of european vat legislation in order to ensure a harmonised tax treatment of vouchers in all member states. the gap in european legislation in this area has highlighted the differences between the various national regulations as regards the vat regime applicable to vouchers. these differences generate market inefficiencies, which penalise a market which is intended to be a single market for businesses and consumers. i therefore voted in favour of this report, whose proposals seek to introduce greater harmonization in the taxation of vouchers. another step towards the digital single market that will bring positive effects for businesses by eliminating double taxation situations and, ultimately, for all european consumers.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the common system of value added tax (cvat) for the treatment of vouchers. i have always advocated greater harmonisation and simplification of vat rules in order to minimise possible market distortions, including double taxation or even no taxation at all. i therefore welcome another initiative in this direction.
in writing. the european union (eu) voucher market is worth some €52 billion a year, with telecommunications prepayments holding the largest market share at around 70%. the differences between member states (ms) in value added tax (vat) are a factor of instability and injustice which cause difficulties in the functioning of the voucher market. aware of this, the commission proposed on 10 may 2012 to update the eu vat rules in order to harmonise the tax treatment of all types of vouchers in the ms. i voted in favour of the report by mrs ildikó gáll-pelcz on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the treatment of vouchers, because it is essential to clarify and harmonise european legislation on vouchers, eliminating double taxation and combating tax evasion by companies. this regulation will provide a clear legal definition of vouchers for the purposes of taxing vat and the fixing of the time at which vat must be paid, thus taking another step towards the construction of a genuine single market.
in writing. − eliminating the risk of tax evasion and fraud by clarifying the vat treatment of transactions involving vouchers is a fair objective and deserves our support. however, as always, more than just clarifying the vat collection process, the aim of this proposal is to remove existing barriers in the internal market, to harmonise the different laws of the member states and to increase competition, which will only encourage the concentration of companies operating in this sector. this concentration is contrary to the objective of combating tax fraud and tax evasion, since it abolishes national legislation by increasing the free movement of capital, which is conducive to tax fraud and tax evasion. this is a very attractive market for large capital, representing some €52 billion a year in the eu, spread over both large and small companies. this process will not be beneficial to workers and consumers, since concentration in the sector will - as in other sectors - lead to higher consumer prices and a decrease in the quality of services or products.
in writing. − this report addresses inconsistencies in legislation which constitute an obstacle to the full exploitation of the opportunities of the single market. the commission proposal proposes harmonisation of the definition of vouchers and their distinction from other means of payment, the place and time of taxation of transactions relating to them, and common rules for their distribution in the chain of intermediaries to the final consumer. i have voted in favour of this report because of the benefits it is expected to bring.
in writing. the new legislation aims to eliminate differences between national regulations on the vat arrangements for vouchers, given the serious market inefficiencies which hamper the effective development of business activities and prevent consumers from taking full advantage of the operation of pan-european schemes for voucher services. the vouchers market represents over eur 52 billion a year in the eu and clarification of its tax regime will be essential in eliminating double taxation, tax evasion and uncertainty about the tax obligations of companies, especially in relation to their cross-border activities. the commission proposal proposes harmonisation of the definition of vouchers and their distinction from other means of payment, the place and time of taxation of transactions relating to them, and common rules for their distribution in the chain of intermediaries to the final consumer. other technical measures relating to the right to deduct, redemption and refund procedures, the tax debtor and other obligations of companies are also covered. i support this report because i believe it fills in the gaps in legislation which are an obstacle to the full exploitation of the opportunities of the single market.
in writing. the new legislation in question aims to harmonise national rules on the vat arrangements applicable to vouchers, due to the fact that there are inefficiencies in the market, which hamper the effective development of business activities. i am voting in favour of this proposal because i believe that there should be greater harmonization of the definition of vouchers and their distinction from other means of payment, and the place and time of taxation of transactions relating to them. it should also be noted that there should be common rules for their distribution in the chain from intermediaries to the final consumer. finally, it should be noted that other technical measures relating to the right to deduct, redemption and reimbursement procedures and rules which impose new obligations on undertakings are also covered.
in writing. − eliminating the risk of tax evasion and fraud by clarifying the vat treatment of transactions involving vouchers is a fair objective and deserves our full support. however, more than just clarifying the vat collection process, the aim of this proposal is to remove existing barriers in the internal market, to harmonise the different laws of the member states and to increase competition, which will only encourage the concentration of companies operating in this sector. this concentration is contrary to the objective of combating tax fraud and tax evasion, since it abolishes national legislation by increasing the free movement of capital, which is conducive to tax fraud and tax evasion. this is a very attractive market for large capital, representing some €52 billion a year in the eu, spread over both large and small companies. this process will not be beneficial to workers and consumers, since concentration in the sector will lead - as in other sectors - to more unemployment, loss of tax revenue, increased costs for social security systems, increases in consumer prices, and a decline in the quality of services or products.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking note of the observations made by the court of auditors on the lack of exception procedures, the accounting system not yet fully validated, the room for manoeuvre to make improvements in recruitment procedures, the detailed standards and procedures not yet adopted for the implementation of europol's financial regulation, the lack of provisions on the costs of the new building's decommissioning, the shortcomings found with regard to physical checking and asset registration before and after the move to the new premises, the room for manoeuvre to make improvements in the transparency of recruitment processes, and the high percentage of staff who have carried over more than 12 days of annual leave into the following year, which can only be done in exceptional circumstances. i therefore urge europol to improve its management in order to reduce the number of observations by the court of auditors in the report for the next financial year.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and in particular my own, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the europol accounts, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the europol discharge report is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the office's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of discharging europol for having used its information and operational expertise to support member state authorities in 13 697 crossborder cases, which represents an increase of 17% compared to 2010. in addition, more than 25% of europol's operations were drug-related, 22 high-level investigations into human trafficking were carried out, 9 major european operations targeted criminal networks facilitating illegal immigration and operations against the sexual exploitation of children, such as operation rescue, which led to 250 arrests worldwide and the protection of 252 children.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by welcoming the fact that the agency's annual accounts faithfully reflect, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2011, as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. furthermore, i would like to highlight the fact that the operations underlying the agency's annual accounts for the year ended 31 december 2011 are, in all material respects, legal and regular. however, i must point out that the court of auditors did not make any critical remarks in its report.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the eu fundamental rights agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european union agency for fundamental rights is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the european union agency for fundamental rights, stressing that there must be sound financial management of the agency, particularly in terms of the effectiveness and efficiency with which the agency has used the appropriations at its disposal to carry out the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting with the high volume of appropriations carried over, which the court of auditors describes as 'excessive' in its report; taking note of the frontex reply in which it draws attention to the fact that a large part of the additional funds, amounting to eur 31.8 million, only arrived at the end of october 2011. i recognize that the provision of such a volume of supplementary funds relatively late in the year does indeed pose a budgetary management problem and i am aware that frontex is an operational agency and that the implementation of its budgetary programming is to a large extent dependent on external factors such as the need to respond to exceptional circumstances. i therefore urge frontex to continue to strengthen the monitoring of joint operations.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the eu member states, and in particular my own, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the frontex accounts, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - we believe that a non-discriminatory immigration policy is necessary, guaranteeing the rights of immigrants on an equal footing with other citizens, in particular the right to education, health, social security, housing, culture and sport. it is urgent to denounce and condemn frontex, one of the central pillars of the eu's criminalising, security and exploitative immigration policy, and to demand ratification of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. we stand for a fair immigration policy. we support the fight for a different europe, one of peace, cooperation and solidarity between peoples. it is also a fight for the human dignity of immigrants. our vote on the request for discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 cannot be separated from our position of principle on its nature and tasks.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. the vote on the discharge report of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) is in this vein.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the office's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am in favour of the discharge of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex), stressing that it faithfully reflects, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2011 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date.
in writing. - we believe that a non-discriminatory immigration policy is necessary, guaranteeing the rights of immigrants on an equal footing with other citizens, in particular the right to education, health, social security, housing, culture and sport. it is urgent to denounce and condemn frontex, one of the central pillars of the eu's criminalising, security and exploitative immigration policy, and to demand ratification of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. we stand for a fair immigration policy. our vote on the request for discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 cannot be separated from our position of principle on its nature and tasks.
in writing. − i approve of this report, starting by regretting that, according to the court of auditors' report, the agency made grant payments under the seventh framework programme for research and development amounting to eur 5.8 million in 2011 and, in order to verify expenditure declared by beneficiaries (public and private research entities), despite carrying out plausibility checks, did not normally require supporting documents that would mitigate the risk of ineligible expenditure. i take note of the information provided by the agency that its cost analysis is based on the project proposal, the products delivered during the project life cycle (quarterly reports), the final products delivered and the expenses incurred, and that the proposals include a detailed work plan with the various activities needed to achieve the project objectives. however, i note that the beneficiaries will have to set a budget for the project based on the resources needed to implement the work plan and that the proposals are evaluated and the grants awarded by experts on the premises of the commission and i end by pointing out the intention of the agency to implement controls that allow an effective verification of the project costs in the future.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european gnss agency, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the european gnss agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am in favour of the discharge for the european gnss agency, regretting that the agency made grant payments under the seventh framework programme for research and development amounting to eur 5.8 million in 2011 and did not normally require supporting documents that would mitigate the risk of ineligible expenditure.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by noting that in 2011 the joint undertaking established a business continuity plan and made progress in formalising it security policies, but that further efforts are needed to finalise the business continuity plan. i regret that, contrary to the financial rules of the joint undertaking, the national funding bodies have not yet declared any bank interest generated by the pre-financing payments. i welcome, however, the fact that the headquarters agreement between the joint undertaking and the belgian authorities regarding the premises, privileges and immunities and other support was signed on 3 february 2012.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union's member states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the artemis joint undertaking's accounts, i would like to make a few more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am voting in favour of discharging the artemis joint undertaking, noting that it was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, thus strengthening europe's competitiveness and sustainability.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by expressing my concern that the low rate of payment appropriations reflects delays in the implementation of the activities of the joint undertaking, in particular significant delays between the publication of calls for proposals and the signing of grant agreements. i urge the joint undertaking to take the necessary measures to avoid such delays by reducing the average time between the publication of the call for proposals and the signature of the grant agreement by the joint undertaking, which in the first call of 2011 was 291 days. i would also stress the low rate of budget implementation, which still results in an excessive cash balance, representing 32% of the payment appropriations available in 2011. i also regret that the joint undertaking, in breach of its financial provisions, has carried over eur 68 million in payment appropriations for 2012 without a decision of the governing board.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking, as i consider that this public-private partnership plays an important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in the research and development of technologies to limit the environmental impacts of air transport.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the eu member states, and my own in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the clean sky joint undertaking accounts, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the clean sky joint undertaking is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the clean sky joint undertaking, stressing that the maximum contribution for the ten-year period by the union to the joint undertaking is eur 800 million from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research and that the joint undertaking aims to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the union with a view to their implementation as soon as possible.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by expressing my concern that the joint undertaking's annual accounts have received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, on the grounds that the joint undertaking was not in a position to assess whether the ex post audit strategy provided sufficient assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i reiterate that the joint undertaking should immediately improve the quality of ex ante controls, in particular those relating to the management of grants. i therefore request that the discharge authority be informed of the results of the subsequent ex-post audit procedures carried out by the joint undertaking. i hope that the court, through its independent audits, will be able to provide the discharge authority with its own opinion on the effectiveness of the joint undertaking's ex post audit strategy.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the eniac joint undertaking is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011, pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the eniac joint undertaking, stressing that it aims to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across the different application areas.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the concern that the budgetary procedure outlined in the financial regulation of the joint undertaking was not followed, as the derogation granted by the commission to enter cancelled appropriations in the revenue and expenditure forecast for the following three financial years was misinterpreted. i further note that, as a result of the joint undertaking's interpretation of the budgetary procedure, the result of the budget implementation for the financial year 2011 is incorrect, as an amount in payment appropriations carried over from 2011 to 2012 was not included in the calculations and the result of the budget implementation for 2010 does not reflect the payment appropriations carried over from 2010 to 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2011 budgetary discharge of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, as i consider that this public-private partnership plays an important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in research and development of technologies to promote energy efficiency and the reduction of polluting emissions in the energy sector.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. the vote on the discharge report for the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is in that spirit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am voting in favour of the discharge of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, noting that it was established in may 2008 in the form of a public-private partnership by regulation (ec) no 521/2008 for a period until 31 december 2017. it aims to develop commercial applications, thereby facilitating complementary industrial efforts towards a rapid development of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by expressing my concern that the implementation rate of the commitment appropriations available for research activities was 66%, having been implemented through a global commitment for the fourth call for proposals. i reiterate the concern regarding the low rate of budget implementation and the underlying activities of the joint undertaking, noting that the high number of unused appropriations from the administrative budget (44%) indicates that it was not based on realistic estimates. i therefore ask that a detailed report be submitted to the european parliament on the development of the deficiencies mentioned, including concrete proposals for a gradual improvement in the rate of implementation and for a more realistic estimate of the financial resources needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the joint undertaking's 2011 discharge for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines, as i consider that this public-private partnership plays a very important role in the implementation of european policies, in particular in the research and development of more effective and safer medicines, with clear benefits for citizens.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the joint undertaking's accounts for the implementation of the joint technological initiative on innovative medicines, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technological initiative on innovative medicines is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the joint undertaking's budget for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am in favour of the discharge of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines, stressing that it aims to significantly improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process so that the pharmaceutical industry produces, in the long term, more effective and safer innovative medicines.
in writing. − i approve this report, recognising that the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are, in all material respects, legal and regular. i would also point out that the utilization rates of the available commitment and payment appropriations were 99.7% and 85.7%, respectively, and that of the commitment appropriations available for operational activities, 42% were implemented through direct individual commitments, while the remaining 58% were implemented through global commitments. however, i regret that the joint undertaking's internal auditor has expressed concerns regarding the financial circuits and the separation of functions. i therefore urge the joint undertaking to implement without delay an appropriate systematisation of the financial circuits and the separation of all incompatible functions.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the discharge for the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am voting in favour of discharging the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, pointing out that it was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years, and that the total indicative resources deemed necessary for the period 2007-2014 were eur 9 653 000 000.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting with the fact that i welcome the court of auditors' conclusion that the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are, in all material respects, legal and regular. i also acknowledge that the sesar joint undertaking is making a decisive contribution to the creation of a modernised air traffic management system in europe. i therefore call on the member states to honour their commitments to the objective of the single european sky, the achievement of which is intrinsically linked to that of the sesar programme.
in writing. - at the present political juncture, when many of the european union states, and mine in particular, are experiencing difficulties unparalleled in recent history, rather than focusing on the report i am voting on on the accounts of the sesar joint undertaking, i would like to make some more general remarks. i would like to call on all these eu institutions, departments and agencies to adopt a principle of good management and a policy of restraint and austerity in their spending. the eu budget, in addition to its own resources, is mainly financed by contributions from the member states. this is why, in the current economic climate, we need to keep expenditure under control and adapt internal rules to an active policy of combating waste and establishing clear standards of good management and efficient use of public money. the eu cannot continue to demand difficult adjustments from states when there are still numerous instances of mismanagement and lack of transparency in its institutions, services and agencies.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the discharge report of the sesar joint undertaking is appropriate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, on the basis of the annual report of the court of auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011, together with the institute's reply, the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 pursuant to article 287 tfeu, and the favourable opinion of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament and of the committee on transport and tourism.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament approves the good use of public funds in budget implementation, achieved in compliance with the rules. following a recommendation from the council, meps are called upon to monitor the management of appropriations by deciding on discharge on the basis of the court of auditors' reports. as regards the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, and having assessed the reports of the court of auditors and the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i supported the discharge for the implementation of the budget.
in writing. − the european parliament must give a discharge to an institution or agency, thereby declaring that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and closing its budget. the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. i am voting in favour of discharging the sesar joint undertaking, stressing that it was set up to implement the new generation european air traffic management system.
in writing. - i approve of this report, beginning by recommending the rapid adoption of the amendments, which will allow the entry into force as soon as possible of the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, as far as the european union is concerned, considering that this is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides for a mechanism whereby child support obligations can be claimed and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. the parliament has already approved the convention, which was signed on behalf of the european union on 6 april 2011. however, in order for the convention to apply to the european union, an instrument of approval must be deposited. after consulting the member states, it is now necessary to make certain amendments to annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention, which will allow the deposit of the instrument of approval.
in writing. − the objective of the 2007 hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is to ensure the effectiveness of the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance. since the vast majority of maintenance claims concern minors, the convention is essentially a measure designed to protect them. the convention is therefore an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism whereby maintenance obligations for children can be claimed and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which allows the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance to enter into force. the new legislation adopted is a good example of the integration of european policies. in the european union, 13% of couples have a partner who is a third country national. at present, in separations and divorces between europeans and thirdcountry nationals, they were not entitled to receive maintenance for their children. the adoption of this report and the subsequent entry into force of the hague convention will make it possible to remedy this situation. to speed up the process and facilitate the requests of european citizens, a centralised european authority has also been set up to deal with all complaints, providing technical assistance and liaising with the governments of third countries to resolve them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the entry into force as soon as possible of the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, with the amendments to annexes ii and iii.
in writing. − the european commission intends to approve the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, the member states being bound by the convention by virtue of its being concluded by the eu. the commission has external competence to approve the convention. since the practical questions raised by the international recovery of maintenance are not precisely answered, the adoption of this convention could ensure greater effectiveness in the international recovery of maintenance obligations for the benefit of children and other family members, thereby protecting the youngest beneficiaries of such obligations. for this reason, and also for the legal certainty that this gives, i consider it important that this convention be adopted.
in writing. − the hague convention is a fundamental instrument in family justice as it provides a mechanism for parents to assume their responsibilities in terms of so-called maintenance payments even when residing in a third country. the report by mr antónio lópez-istúriz white concerns the proposal for a council decision amending annexes ii and iii to the council decision of 9 june 2011 on the approval by the european union of the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance. this convention, which has already been approved by the european parliament (ep) and signed by the european union (eu) on 6 april 2011, requires proof of approval to be provided in order to be applied. to achieve this, certain amendments are necessary to annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention, which relate in particular to the situation of cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal. i voted in favour and i hope that it will come into force as soon as possible because this is a matter of undeniable urgency and timeliness.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 provides a mechanism whereby child support obligations can be claimed and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. it is an important instrument. in june 2011, the council adopted the decision on the approval, on behalf of the eu, of the 2007 hague convention on food. the council decision provides that the eu shall make the reservations and declarations provided for in the convention when depositing the instrument of approval of the convention. parliament has already approved the convention. it is now consulted for an opinion, taking into account that further developments require an amendment to annexes ii and iii, before the instrument of approval is deposited. these developments are linked to specific requests made by some member states, including portugal. we supported this report.
in writing. − the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism whereby child support obligations can be claimed and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. this convention has already been approved by parliament in april 2011 and an instrument of approval must now be deposited. the amendments must therefore be adopted as soon as possible so that the convention can enter into force in the eu as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report approving the necessary amendments to the council decision for the deposit of the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, an important instrument for citizens, as it provides for a mechanism whereby maintenance obligations for children can be claimed and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. the parliament has already approved the convention which was signed on behalf of the european union on 6 april 2011. however, for the convention to apply to the european union, an instrument of approval must be deposited, which can be done after these amendments.
in writing. − the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance aims to ensure effective international maintenance through a comprehensive system of cooperation between contracting states. after consulting the member states, it is now necessary to amend annexes ii and iii to the decision approving the convention. i voted in favour of the amendments which allow the entry into force of the said convention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending annexes ii and iii to council decision 2011/432/eu as proposed by the commission, as this will allow the entry into force of the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance for the european union, which should happen as soon as possible.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 is an important instrument providing a mechanism whereby child support obligations can be claimed and enforced against a debtor resident in a third country. on 9 june 2011, the council adopted the decision on the approval, on behalf of the eu, of the 2007 hague convention on food. the council decision provides that the union is to make the reservations and declarations provided for in the convention when depositing the instrument of approval of the convention. parliament has already approved the convention. following the adoption of the council decision on 9 june 2011, some member states felt the need to amend their previous declaration (latvia) or to make a new declaration and reservation in accordance with articles 5 and 6 of the council decision (cyprus, luxembourg and portugal). parliament shall be consulted for its opinion. the report recommends that the amendments be approved, thus allowing the hague convention to enter into force as regards the european union as soon as possible, which is a positive thing.
madam president, madam minister, we are discussing here today - and again - the council's block on multiannual management plans, an issue that has dragged on since 2009. the european parliament thus shows its dissatisfaction with the present situation, its commitment to resolving it and the expectation it places on the irish presidency to overcome it. the question is twofold and it must be resolved. it is primarily political, because the council has completely disregarded the new powers of co-legislature which the lisbon treaty confers on parliament. the council should not fear this strengthened democracy, but rather recognize that cooperation between the two institutions better serves the common objective of european integration. the issue is also environmental by promoting the sustainability of stocks through the implementation of multiannual management plans, a model that the future common fisheries policy establishes as a rule. multiannual plans based on scientific advice, reflecting the specificities of different resources and the diversity of fisheries in european waters, contribute to the sustainability of exploitation of fisheries resources, as well as to better long-term planning and greater stability of the sector. in addition, they may also include specific provisions limiting the annual fluctuations of the total allowable catches, creating more stable and predictable conditions for union fisheries operators. they are therefore an undeniable asset to a sustainable european fisheries sector. in view of the council's blockage of the multiannual management plans, i ask: how are we going to implement a new reform of the common fisheries policy? in fact, the question here today is: what is the irish presidency going to do about this?
this persistent institutional impasse over multiannual fisheries management plans, beyond the more immediate implications discussed here today, is giving rise to a much deeper reflection on the current fisheries management model. in recent decades, important decisions have been taken in the light of a model of centralised management that is far removed from reality - ignoring reality - and this has resulted in decisions with profoundly negative effects, often contrary to what was said to be intended. today, if anything has changed, it's for the worse. the exclusive competence of the european union in this field conferred by the treaty of lisbon deepens and enhances this centralised management. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the fishing industry. decisions that will shape the future of entire communities. but despite this, these communities are increasingly far from influencing the decision-making process that will determine, to a large extent, their future. it is democracy itself that is at stake. it is therefore urgent to reverse this course. the question of whether the european union has exclusive competence in this area is inevitably part of the change that is needed.
madam president, the treaty of lisbon has strengthened participatory democracy and representative democracy. the citizens' initiative is a very positive instrument, but it has already been said here that the rules and procedures which make it difficult to apply it must be simplified. we therefore welcome all the efforts the commission can make to facilitate genuine citizen participation in the decision-making processes of european policy. in the european year of citizens, and at a time when europe is going through a serious economic crisis, but also a political and values crisis, it is essential to deepen the dialogue between european governments, institutions and citizens. this dialogue must help to define a course for europe that meets the expectations of the people. it is crucial that citizens also participate in the construction of the european project and we must read the signs of dissatisfaction of many europeans with what is happening in europe and in their countries. we must listen to the citizens, even when they are demonstrating in the streets.
the problem here is a problem of mutual trust between the two institutions in the legislative process. i was the rapporteur for this very report on macroeconomic imbalances and i can assure you that there are no technical and political issues because the choice of indicators and the choice of the alert thresholds associated with these indicators are detailed matters and it is on the basis of this information that policies or policy changes are then defined. this means that the choice of indicators is an extraordinarily important decision to know what we are looking at and, based on the results, from what we know, from what we measure, from what we understand, to make the most appropriate decisions. i would point out to you, and the commissioner has referred to the text in question, that recital 12 of this legislation says, and i will say it in english: the commission should present suggestions for comments to the competent committees of the european parliament and of the council on plans to establish and adjust the indicators and thresholds. "this is what was agreed. that's what it says. this was the basis of our interinstitutional understanding and i ask you: does the commissioner consider that sending us information on a change in an indicator is in keeping with the spirit and the letter of this recital? i hope that the commission will look at the way in which it has made this amendment and correct the clear error of relationship, on the basis of good faith interinstitutional, which i believe has been made and which this parliament believes has been made. i shall not add anything to what the chairman of the committee, sharon bowles, has just said. there is an interinstitutional problem here which will leave scars, or, on the contrary, a clearer and more transparent method of working, side by side, in the legislative phases that follow, and there are many! so it was absolutely essential that we start to do all that remains to be done on a basis of mutual trust and not on a basis of mutual distrust.
in writing. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the visa waiver system to all eu citizens, including those who are not citizens of the eu. the parties shall ensure that the visa waiver is granted to all persons who are nationals of a member state of the european union and who are not nationals of a member state of the european union. a visa facilitation agreement is a major factor in people's lives and strengthens contacts between people, making it easier for ordinary citizens to travel. the amendments to this agreement facilitate the travel of representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people. a joint commitment between the eu and ukraine can effectively contribute to the deepening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by promoting greater ease of contacts and travel between the people of the two contracting parties. in the light of the positive aspects of all this progress, i propose that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. − the visa facilitation agreement between the european community and ukraine has been in force since january 2008 and has been successful with a very low visa refusal rate of 3.3%. however, despite the success, the performance evaluation has highlighted some changes that need to be made. the newly amended agreement introduces clear improvements in the issuing of visas to ukrainian citizens. it simplifies the documentary requirements for certain applicants and increases the categories of persons eligible for a multiple-entry visa valid for one or five years. this amendment is a significant step towards the establishment of a visa waiver regime between the european union and ukraine. it also sends a clear signal to ukrainian citizens that the eu is committed to strengthening its partnership with ukrainian society and to further developing and facilitating people-to-people contacts. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - i support this recommendation because this agreement amends and facilitates visas between the european union and ukraine and introduces clear improvements in the issuing of visas to ukrainian citizens compared to the agreement currently in force. it simplifies the documentation requirements for certain applicants and increases the categories of persons eligible for a multiple-entry visa with a validity of one or five years.
in writing. - i have no doubt about the positive impact that the conclusion of this type of visa facilitation agreements can have on people's lives, promoting mobility and making a decisive contribution to strengthening contacts between the populations of the two contracting parties. the agreement with ukraine has been in force since 2008 and, although it is being successful, a number of improvements should be made and any inaccuracies or differences in interpretation of the text should be corrected. the amended agreement aims to simplify the visa application process, promote the exemption of certain categories of applicants (e.g. close family members of union citizens, participants in official eu cross-border cooperation programmes, etc.), clarify the validity periods of multiple-entry visas, establish simplified requirements for travel documents and improve the system for applying the urgent fee. i am in favour of deepening relations with ukraine or any neighbouring countries, but without forgetting that the union is based on a set of common principles, fundamental rights and values, including the principle of non-discrimination, which we hope can be respected in the same way in ukraine.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it introduces significant improvements for ukrainian citizens travelling to eu countries, facilitating travel for representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people. the amendment to this agreement could contribute to the deepening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by facilitating contacts and travel between the people of the two contracting parties.
in writing. - i believe that ukraine has much to gain from closer relations with the european union and that the overriding element of this should be greater freedom of movement for citizens of both sides. i believe that, without abandoning the political positions it has been taking, the union should encourage this movement and promote economic, cultural, knowledge and information exchanges with ukraine. increased visa facilitation makes a very significant contribution to the achievement of those objectives. i hope that ukraine will persevere in the reforms it has yet to complete and that its relationship with the union will increasingly be guided by a genuine shared set of values and political practices.
in writing. - the european union's added value is its good neighbour policy, which has contributed greatly to its enlargement to the east, particularly to the countries of the western balkans. croatia will become the eu's 28th member state on 1 july, and other candidate countries in eastern europe are emerging. the recommendation we have just voted on, which is the responsibility of mr claude moraes, refers us to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-ukraine agreement amending the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. ukraine is a very important partner for the eu in the eastern partnership and this agreement can be a catalyst for closer eu-ukraine relations. with this visa facilitation, the eu is not benefiting the ukrainian government but the population, as it is the eu's mandate and is aimed at civil society: young students, businessmen, journalists, members of non-governmental organizations, etc. i voted in favour of this recommendation and i urge the council and the commission to press the ukrainian government to change legislation which violates the principles and values of the union so that it does not become a noise factor in eu-ukraine relations.
in writing. − the european community and ukraine concluded a visa facilitation agreement in 2008. the visa refusal rate under this agreement has been very low, at about 3.3%, which shows that it has been a successful agreement. the agreement voted on today amends minor inaccuracies or differences in interpretation of the 2008 text, inserting simplified requirements for documents proving the purpose of travel applicable to a wider category of applicants, clarifies the provisions on the validity periods of multiple-entry visas, revises the urgency fee, which has been abolished for persons submitting last-minute applications, and applies the visa exemption for holders of service passports. the eu shall ensure that the visa waiver is granted to ukrainians who are nationals of the eu member states and who are not nationals of ukraine. this agreement makes life easier for people travelling between ukraine and eu countries and strengthens contacts between people. we voted in favour.
in writing. − this visa facilitation agreement between the european community and ukraine has been in force since 1 january 2008. this agreement has had a high success rate, with a very low visa refusal rate of 3.3%. however, the evaluation of the functioning of the agreement has highlighted some additional amendments which need to be made to correct any inaccuracies or differences in interpretation of the text. with this new agreement, some improvements are being made which i think are relevant to making it even more effective. a visa facilitation agreement is a major factor in people's lives and strengthens contacts between people, making it easier for ordinary citizens to travel. the amendments to this agreement facilitate the travel of representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people. that's why i'm in favor.
in writing. − a visa facilitation agreement is a very important factor in people's lives and strengthens contacts between people, making it easier for ordinary citizens to make their travel plans more quickly. the amendments to this agreement facilitate the travel of representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people. a joint commitment between the eu and ukraine can effectively contribute to the deepening of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by promoting greater ease of contacts and travel between the people of the two contracting parties. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − despite the success in implementing the visa facilitation agreement between the european community and ukraine, in force since 1 january 2008, the assessment of its functioning has resulted in some changes to the original text simplifying requirements, clarifying the provisions on deadlines, revising the system for applying the urgent fee and broadening the scope of the agreement. these amendments are positive in that they aim to facilitate travel between people from the two contracting parties, promoting greater ease of contacts and travel.
in writing. − the european union and ukraine have established a facilitation agreement which has been in force since 1 january 2008. the agreement in question has been extremely successful, with a very low visa refusal rate of 3.3%. despite the success, the evaluation of the functioning of the agreement has highlighted some additional amendments which need to be made to correct any inaccuracies or differences in interpretation of the text. i agree with this report which introduces clear improvements in the issue of visas to ukrainian citizens compared to the agreement currently in force. i believe that it is necessary to simplify the documentary requirements for certain applicants and to increase the categories of persons who can benefit from a multiple-entry visa with a validity of one or five years.
in writing. − the european community and ukraine concluded a visa facilitation agreement in 2008, which has had a very low visa refusal rate - around 3.3% - which shows that it has been a successful agreement. the agreement voted today amends minor inaccuracies or differences in interpretation of the 2008 text, introducing simplified requirements on the purpose of travel documents for a wider category of applicants, clarifying the provisions on the validity periods of multiple-entry visas, revising the urgency fee, abolishing the visa waiver for last-minute applicants and applying the visa waiver for holders of service passports. the eu shall ensure that the visa waiver is granted to all persons who are nationals of a member state of the european union and who are not nationals of a member state of the european union. this agreement is seen as a major factor in people's lives, strengthening contacts between communities, making it easier for the average citizen to travel.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that a future establishment of a short-stay visa waiver for moldovan citizens travelling to eu countries will strengthen cooperation with the eu and pave the way for a closer relationship with the union. in view of the european ambitions of the republic of moldova, this agreement, as amended, represents encouraging progress and promotes people-to-people contacts, economic development, cultural and scientific dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens. according to official eurostat data, between 2006 and 2011, illegal stay and illegal border crossing became fairly stable or experienced only a moderate growth in terms of migratory movements of moldovan citizens towards the eu.
in writing. − on 1 january 2008, the agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas entered into force. between 13 may 2011 and 14 december 2011, the european commission, with the prior authorisation of the council, conducted negotiations with the republic of moldova on an agreement amending the visa facilitation agreement. the amended eu-moldova agreement on visa facilitation is a step forward from the initial agreement and provides for clear improvements for the benefit of moldovan citizens. the objective of the amending agreement is to facilitate the issuing of visas to citizens of the republic of moldova for an intended stay of 90 days in any 180-day period, and to provide for visa-free travel for moldovan citizens under certain conditions. this agreement, as amended, represents encouraging progress and promotes people-to-people contacts, economic development, cultural and scientific dialogue, and the safety and well-being of citizens. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because the visa liberalisation process also provides an opportunity for moldova to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice. in this context, it should recall several priorities for action: ensuring the effective management of migration flows, preventing and combating corruption and organised crime, including trafficking in human beings, strengthening administrative and judicial capacities and intensifying cooperation with neighbouring countries, in particular ukraine.
in writing. - i have no doubt about the positive impact that the conclusion of this type of visa facilitation agreements can have on people's lives, promoting mobility and making a decisive contribution to strengthening contacts between the populations of the two contracting parties. the agreement with moldova has been in force since 2008 and is now intended to be amended to introduce a number of improvements. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the schengen acquis in the area of freedom, security and justice, in particular by introducing a new visa regime for citizens of the union. this new visa facilitation agreement should thus allow for a reduction in the time and costs associated with travel to the schengen area and also provide an incentive for moldova to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice, with particular emphasis on more effective management of migration flows, the fight against corruption and organised crime, and trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the agreement on visa facilitation could make an important contribution to moldovan citizens travelling to eu countries, to strengthening cooperation with the eu and to preparing the ground for a closer relationship with the european union.
in writing. − with the facilitation of visa issuance, moldovan citizens will be able to enter and move more easily within the union. i hope that this opportunity for closer relations will be well seized by both sides and that this personal rapprochement will also have economic and institutional repercussions. it is well known that moldova has ambitions to join the union and that it intends to undertake reforms in this direction. i hope that they will produce good results for your people. this opening, which cannot ignore safety issues, must be done in good faith, with the results being monitored and evaluated periodically.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas entered into force on 1 january 2008. in the meantime, the commission has opened negotiations with moldova with a view to adopting a new agreement on visa facilitation, in particular because romania, an eu member state, has had an agreement on short-stay border traffic with moldova since october 2010. i voted in favour of this amendment because the new agreement represents a step forward from the previous one, constituting a significant improvement for the moldovan population, by allowing the issuing of visas for 90 days in every 180-day period, and also providing for visa exemption for moldovan citizens who meet certain conditions, namely holders of biometric passports who wish to stay for a short period. the amendments also cover international drivers, journalists and their technical teams, close family members of eu citizens and participants in official cross-border cooperation programmes. i welcome this new agreement which allows for a closer rapprochement between the eu and the republic of moldova as well as the improvement of neighbourly relations.
in writing. − the european parliament approved the conclusion of the agreement amending an existing agreement concluded in 2008 on visa facilitation and providing for improvements for moldovan citizens, for an intended stay of 90 days in each 180-day period. this facilitation will reduce the time and costs associated with travel to the schengen area. there is a provision for a visa waiver for short-term cases for specific categories of applicants, which we normally support. we cannot, however, fail to note that in the eyes of the european union this process is an opportunity for moldova to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice, which, in our view, is a way of exerting political pressure to implement policies which are essentially in the eu's interests. the agreement also involves the exchange of information between moldovan and eu authorities on lost and stolen biometric passport data via the interpol database, the organisation of information campaigns and the updating of computer systems for calculating the total period of stay.
in writing. − on 1 january 2008, the agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas entered into force. this new agreement, on which we are now giving our opinion, was negotiated between may 2011 and december 2011 and was finalised in march 2012. the new agreement provides for improved conditions for moldovan citizens to obtain visas for the eu. the amended agreement between the european union and moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas constitutes progress compared to the initial agreement and provides for clear improvements for the benefit of moldovan citizens. the objective of the amending agreement is to facilitate the issuing of visas to citizens of the republic of moldova for an intended stay of 90 days in any 180-day period, and to provide for visa-free travel for moldovan citizens under certain conditions. that's why i'm in favor.
in writing. − in view of the european ambitions of the republic of moldova, this agreement, as amended, represents encouraging progress and promotes people-to-people contacts, economic development, cultural and scientific dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens. visa facilitation will reduce the time and costs associated with travel to the schengen area. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the facilitation of the issuance of visas to citizens of the republic of moldova will reduce the time and cost associated with travel within the territory of the european union, without however signifying a laxity in the controls on the conditions of entry and stay of moldovan citizens in the schengen area. the obligation to justify the purpose and conditions of the journey remains in force once the agreement enters into force. in the light of these developments, which bring the eu and the republic of moldova closer together, i expressed my agreement in plenary, voting in favour of the rapporteur's recommendation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the approval of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova amending the agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, as i considered that it constitutes progress compared to the initial agreement and provides for clear improvements for the benefit of moldovan citizens.
in writing. − the european parliament approved the conclusion of the agreement on visa facilitation amending the existing agreement concluded in 2008 between the european community and moldova, which provides for improvements for moldovan citizens for an intended stay of 90 days in any 180-day period. this facilitation will reduce the time and costs associated with travel to the schengen area. the visa waiver for short-stay cases is provided for specific categories of applicants, without prejudice to the functioning of the existing border code. the european union considers this process to be an opportunity for moldova to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice, which is clearly a way of exerting political pressure to implement policies that serve certain interests. the agreement also involves the exchange of information between moldovan and eu authorities on lost and stolen biometric passport data via the interpol database, the organisation of information campaigns and the updating of computer systems for calculating the total period of stay.
in writing. - i welcome this report, noting that the economic and financial crisis is a threat to all human rights, including civil and political rights, and in particular that the crisis has had a negative impact on access to food, healthcare and education for the most vulnerable groups in society, both in urban and rural areas, and has resulted in a dramatic increase in poverty levels globally. i would remind you that it is the responsibility of governments to ensure respect for economic, social and cultural rights and to protect citizens from abuses, for example by companies and other private actors, by applying the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights, and to investigate financial crimes committed by these actors. i am also concerned that, according to world bank and un estimates, the number of people forced into poverty by the crisis is increasing by between 55 and 103 million, thus further undermining respect for human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, while people in developed countries are currently feeling the impacts of the economic and financial crisis, it is the people in developing countries who are suffering the most from the crisis, given the almost complete absence of safety nets to protect them. i therefore call for greater eu involvement in mitigating these effects in developing countries. i also think that this report is important because it stresses that respect for economic and social rights depends, among other things, on the state's ability to regulate the financial market and to distribute the available resources fairly, for example through an effective, transparent and progressive taxation system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it reiterates the eu's determination to defend and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms as the foundation of the european union's external policy, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − human rights and fundamental freedoms are necessarily affected whenever there is a serious economic and financial crisis such as the one we are experiencing today, which has global effects. the european union feels the same way. the difficulties experienced by individuals and families are palpable, and there is a setback in what were once assumed rights. the european situation is serious and unemployment is the main scourge on its citizens. political stability and democracy have also been affected by distortions which must be avoided. the risk of social breakdown deserves greater attention and commitment from policy-makers, but it requires equal firmness in defending respect for the mechanisms of representative democracy and the rejection of populist and violent attempts to condition legitimate governance. the situation is even more dramatic in the wider context of this issue, which calls into question not only the economic, social and cultural rights of many peoples but also the very essence of their civil and political rights. while struggling to recover, the union cannot neglect the defence of those who have the least and suffer the most within and outside its borders.
in writing. the report by mrs inese vaidere is on a motion for a resolution on the impact of the current economic and financial crisis on human rights. in several debates in this parliament, many members have referred to the harmful consequences of the current crisis, both on a personal and family level, and on a professional and social level. the people most affected are those in the most vulnerable groups with food, health care and education shortages. as an immediate consequence, in addition to several suicides due to unemployment or failure to honour financial commitments, we have a significant increase in poverty levels. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i urge the member states to continue their official development assistance, since the negative impact of the crisis is particularly acute in the poorest countries. finally, i call on international institutions such as the imf, the wto and the world bank to take account in their decisions of the obligation to respect and enforce human rights as enshrined in international treaties.
in writing. − this report aims to assess the impact of the economic and financial crisis on human rights. it notes that even with a rapid recovery of the world economy, which seems far from possible, given the measures being taken, by 2020 we will have an additional 71 million people in extreme poverty worldwide due to the crisis. the report refers to the sharp increase in unemployment since the beginning of the crisis, seriously affecting the right to work, the right to health, education and food. attention is also drawn to the enormous failure of the so-called rich countries to meet the tenuous millennium development goals (mdgs), due to the lack of allocation of sufficient funds (the objective was to affect 0.7% of gdp) and, we add, because the eu, the us and other imperialist powers live from this profoundly unequal and exploitative world (dis) order, based on the international division of labour, reserving the role of suppliers of raw materials and cheap labour for the third world countries. the report lists some good intentions but it does not go far enough, it does not put forward any concrete proposals to deal with the problems, it does not seriously characterize the policies that led to the crisis, it does not identify those responsible.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis affects all regions of the world, including the european union, with varying intensity. in this resolution we assess the impact of this crisis on third countries, with particular emphasis on developing and least developed countries. the financial and economic crisis is indeed a global systemic crisis and is interlinked with many other crises, such as the food, environmental and social crisis. there are some countries in north africa and the middle east that are more affected and where their populations have suffered. it should therefore be the eu's determination to defend and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms - civil, political, economic, social and cultural - as the foundation of its foreign policy, and support for all other policies, as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution of the european parliament, in which i stress the need for further studies and analyses of the impact of the financial and economic crisis in various regions, including in the eu and in its relations with third countries, and also the need for better monitoring of the early signs of global and regional crises.
in writing. - this resolution assesses the impact of the crisis in third countries. whereas unemployment reached 200 million people worldwide in 2012, of which 74 million are young people aged 15 to 24; whereas trafficking in human beings represents a modern form of slavery, which exploits the need of potential victims to get decent jobs and escape poverty; whereas access of poor people to water, education, health care and food is restricted as part of the crisis response strategies adopted by families, the rapporteur on these human rights violations added that there is no justification for states, regardless of their income level, to compromise their obligation to respect fundamental rights. the report, which i am voting for, puts the interests of the most vulnerable at the centre of political action.
in writing. the report presented reflects the impact of the financial and economic crisis in third countries, mainly in developing and least developed countries. there is absolutely nothing shocking about this report, because it is nothing but a list of good intentions without being able to draw up a concrete proposal to tackle the problems. in the same way that an observation is made that this is a systemic crisis, nothing is said or questioned about the policies that caused the crisis and that continue to aggravate it. in addition, the report also refuses to address the impact of the crisis, even within the european union. that's why we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the response to the crisis must imperatively include multilateral cooperation coordinated at international level, both at regional and interregional level, and be based on an approach firmly articulated around human rights. i believe that although the world economic crisis is seriously jeopardising respect for economic, social and cultural rights, there is no reason for states, whatever their level of income, to compromise their obligation to respect fundamental human rights.
in writing. − the report finds that even with a possible rapid recovery of the world economy in 2020, we will have an additional 71 million people in the world who will be in extreme poverty due to the crisis. the report refers to the sharp increase in unemployment since the beginning of the crisis, seriously affecting the right to work, the right to health, education and food. attention is also drawn to the enormous failure of the so-called rich countries to meet the millennium development goals (mdgs) due to the lack of allocation of sufficient funds (the objective was to affect 0.7% of gdp) and, we add, because the eu, the us and other imperialist powers live in this deeply unequal and exploitative world order, based on the international division of labour, reserving the role of suppliers of raw materials and cheap labour for the third world countries. the report lists some good intentions, but it stops there - it does not put forward any concrete proposals to deal with it, it does not seriously characterize the policies that led to the crisis, it does not name those responsible. and as if all this were not contradictory enough, the report does not speak of the impact of the crisis on the eu and its responsibilities in the dire situation of countries like portugal.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on european statistics on demography provides for two different definitions of resident population, depending on whether you are providing population data to eurostat (article 3) or the population data needed to establish a qualified majority in the council (article 4). the existence of two different definitions could have political consequences, given that for the purposes of qualified majority voting in the council, member states should provide data on the resident population according to the concept of 'habitual residence' (a concept based on the temporal criterion of one year of actual residence) and not 'permanent residence', legal or registered. this issue is relevant because it has consequences for countries that are currently facing waves of immigration due to the crisis. the migratory phenomena in the european union must not have a negative impact on the number of qualified majority votes in the council or on the number of members to be elected to the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour of the amendment to delete article 4. i supported this report, but the vote on the legislative resolution was postponed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the european standardisation of demographic statistics, which will make it easier to compare data between member states. the availability of such statistics will allow for valid comparisons and relevant conclusions to be drawn which can support the formulation of concrete measures and policies.
in writing. - i believe that the union is facing a very serious demographic problem and that the answer to it should be based on the most reliable data. data comparability is essential for the proper handling of statistics. given that the union has sought to carry out cross-sectional assessments of all its member states, it is appropriate to expect that the available demographic data will allow for such comparability and relatively uniform treatment. the question of assessing the most demographically deprived areas and finding solutions to reverse the demographic winter and to achieve a more homogeneous distribution of populations should call for the commitment of policy-makers and civil society.
in writing. − the eu's sustainable development strategy, launched by the gothenburg european council in 2001 and renewed in june 2006, seeks to continuously improve the quality of life for current and future generations. the commission's (eurostat) monitoring report, which is published every two years, provides an objective statistical overview of progress made, based on the eu's set of sustainable development indicators. demographic statistics on population are an essential component of the estimate of the total population in the european system of accounts (esa). updating and processing data is important for the production of statistics at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on demography, of which i would like to highlight the contribution made by the european parliament, and on the regions, including in the text the obligation that, where statistical data are submitted at national level by regional authorities, member states should also transmit these data to the commission (eurostat), in order to allow a more detailed analysis of the demographic situation in the union.
in writing. − in the pursuit of european standardisation and in order to ensure the quality and especially the comparability of the data provided, this proposal aims to regulate the provision and harmonisation of statistical data on the population of the member states, since these are important for the production of statistics at european level. demographic changes, in particular estimates of the percentage of the population aged over 65 and of the percentage of the active population in relation to the total population, show how regions are affected by demographic developments, with implications for future eu cohesion policy. in this respect, it is essential to follow the same principles and criteria in the production of statistics and, where statistical data are submitted at national level by regional authorities, to transmit them to the commission. for the reasons i have mentioned, i supported the report in plenary.
in writing. − the european population has been declining over the last few years, due to the decline in the birth rate and the progressive ageing of citizens. i am voting in favour of this report which stresses the need for constant updating and processing of data which are important for the production of statistics at european level. it should also be noted that the production and dissemination of european statistics should involve the relevant statistical authorities at national and regional level in order to obtain more reliable information. thus, where regional authorities provide statistical data to national authorities, member states should transmit these data to eurostat in order to allow a more detailed analysis of the demographic situation in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will have a financial instrument which will make it profitable for shipowners when they want to dispose of their ships legally. its aim is therefore to grow the labour market and protect workers and the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on ship recycling, because it includes proposals to make ship recycling economically viable and to increase the recycling capacity, particularly for larger ships, in the eu. these measures should make it possible to stop the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries, including through the use of voluntary landings, which have significant environmental and health impacts.
in writing. − under the eu regulation on waste shipments, the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998. due to the various hazardous materials on board a ship, any ship that leaves the eu for dismantling is a hazardous waste. nevertheless, more than 90% of vessels flying the flag of an eu member state were effectively decommissioned in 2009 outside the oecd using the so-called 'voluntary berth' method. ship recycling is often carried out in yards with little or no standards for the protection of workers, human health and the environment, as these are the ones that offer the best prices. a financial mechanism applicable to all ships calling at eu ports, among other measures to counterbalance this situation, is now essential to make the safe and environmentally friendly recycling of ships that constitute hazardous waste competitive with other recycling operations.
in writing. − shipbreaking worldwide increased sixfold between 2007 and 2009, driven by the accelerated retirement of single-hull tankers, the crisis and the resulting overcapacity. the world fleet has almost doubled in the last ten years. working conditions, workers' rights, the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment are all matters of great concern to us. the hong kong international convention for the safe and environmentally sound recycling of ships, developed by the imo, and the basel convention, which includes some amendments, will help to improve the current situation. we support several of the provisions in the report, such as the creation of an inventory of hazardous materials, a specific recycling plan for ships over 20 years old, more explicit requirements for ship recycling yards and the exclusion of scrapping in the shipyard. but in the concrete context of the integration which is taking place, proposals such as the creation of more european taxes or a further european list (of shipyards) will inevitably result in another factor of pressure on wages, which we do not accept.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal for a regulation on ship recycling is to significantly reduce the negative impacts of recycling ships flying the flag of an eu member state, in particular in south asia, without creating unnecessary economic burdens. the scope of the commission proposal is limited to vessels flying the flag of an eu member state. it proposes that a european list be drawn up of recycling yards anywhere in the world, provided they comply with certain standards (to a certain extent above the provisions of the hong kong convention), such as the handling of hazardous materials on impermeable soils, downstream waste treatment facilities operating in accordance with eu standards for the protection of human health and the environment, but not subject to mandatory controls. uniform and environmentally friendly standards are essential in this area.
in writing. - the present report reiterates the view already expressed by this house that it is ethically irresponsible to tolerate the prolongation of situations involving the dismantling of ships which are harmful to human health and the environment. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i believe it is essential to introduce a mechanism to finance environmentally friendly ship recycling, financed by charging ships that use eu ports. the rapporteur believes that the revenue generated would go to a fund which would be used as a premium for recycling yards which comply with the provisions of the regulation. i have supported this report in order to ensure that recycling and treatment of waste is carried out in an environmentally friendly way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the negative impacts of recycling ships flying the flag of an eu member state need to be significantly reduced. however, i voted against amendments 31 and 32 which sought to introduce a recycling fee as the imposition of such a fee would significantly increase the costs of port calls in the eu, which would result in a degradation of their competitiveness in relation to neighbouring ports outside the eu (notably in the mediterranean, black sea, baltic sea). moreover, such a rate would correspond to the unilateral adoption of a regional measure by the eu which could jeopardise the ratification of the hong kong international convention by other parties such as china, india, bangladesh and pakistan, whose provisions are essential for the improvement of recycling conditions worldwide.
in writing. − shipbreaking worldwide increased sixfold between 2007 and 2009, driven by the accelerated retirement of single-hull tankers, the crisis and the resulting overcapacity. the world fleet has almost doubled in the last ten years. working conditions, workers' rights, the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment are all matters of great concern to us. we support several of the provisions of the report - such as the creation of an inventory of hazardous materials; a specific recycling plan for ships over 20 years old; more explicit requirements for ship recycling yards; the exclusion of scrapping in the shipyard. but in the concrete context of the integration which is taking place, proposals such as the creation of more european taxes or a more european list (of shipyards) will inevitably result in another factor of pressure on wages, which we do not accept.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution, starting by welcoming the significant progress made by croatia in completing the specific tasks indicated in the commission's global follow-up report and urging the government to resolve all outstanding issues by 1 july 2013 and to pursue the other necessary reforms. i also encourage croatia to respect and fulfil all the commitments arising from the accession negotiations in order to be fully prepared as a new member state, as this is in the interest of croatia and the eu. i would also stress that this process must be carried out in a transparent and inclusive manner, involving as much as possible the croatian parliament and civil society. it should also be borne in mind that 24 member states and croatia have already ratified the accession treaty and i call on the parliaments of the three member states which have not yet done so to do so in good time.
in writing. - i welcome the progress made by croatia in the accession negotiations. however, accession should not be interpreted as the end of a process but as an ongoing political action. i call on croatia to respect and fulfil all the commitments arising from the accession negotiations in order to be fully prepared as a new member state.
in writing. − today we are examining the latest commission evaluation report to assess croatia's readiness for accession, and it is expected that the 10-year process can be completed as scheduled, namely by 1 july 2013. i hope that this time the commission's report has made a thorough analysis of croatia's compliance with all the criteria, so that we do not see the same ungrateful situation as romania and bulgaria are going through, which have seen their schengen accession systematically delayed, despite strictly meeting the necessary criteria for schengen accession, because of criteria that should have been met when they joined the eu. i am afraid that the indicators of the economic and social crisis which have recently become known about croatia, and above all the high unemployment rate, together with the serious indications of widespread corruption, cannot reassure us about this accession which has already been achieved this year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'croatia 2012 global monitoring report' because i believe that croatia fulfils the conditions for eu membership as from july 2013, in line with european democratic values.
in writing. - the welcome of croatia as the 28th member state of the european union is a definitive sign that the balkans are an integral, legitimate and indispensable part of a truly united europe. the fact that croatia is in a position to join the union and, perhaps more importantly, that it still has the desire to do so, gives hope to a community of states and peoples which have lately been missing it. perhaps this external view of the desirability of the european project helps us, without ignoring the challenges and problems, to moderate our own pessimism and to be able to appreciate how much we have achieved. i welcome croatia's accession to the european union and hope that it will continue on its reformist path.
in writing. − the 2012 nobel peace prize, awarded to the european union (eu), is an international recognition of the efforts to establish and maintain peace on the european continent. the eu's enlargement policy - one of its most successful projects - continues to work towards the accession of other countries, notably the countries of the western balkans. the republic of croatia will become the 28th member state (member state) of the european union (eu) on 1 july. it is a return to europe which will greatly enrich this community. over the past ten years, croatia has implemented a series of reforms, always with the support of the european institutions, in areas as diverse as justice, fundamental rights and internal security, which has been fundamental to its international credibility. last sunday, 14 april, another step towards its integration was taken by the election of the 12 members who will represent croatia in this parliament as a full member. i welcome the accession of this country to the eu and i greet the croatian people, to whom i wish the greatest success in the continuation of the reforms under way and in their economic growth with the help of community funds.
in writing. - we continue to believe that eu membership should be based solely on the free choice of the candidate countries and their peoples, and that this choice is their own, arising from an act of sovereignty which we naturally accept and respect. the pretext for this enlargement, always linked to the accession negotiation process, is the emphasis on privatisations - already completed or in the process of being completed - on tendering and public procurement procedures, on promoting the development of the private sector, on the stability of the banking sector, on pursuing the policy of fiscal consolidation in order to promote competitiveness, and on more flexible labour laws. there is no word for the thousands of unemployed - the unemployment rate stands at 19% - but there is concern that the law on strategic investments is not in line with european standards, urging the government to revise the law in order to better protect property rights. enlargement which does not call into question the maintenance of the community's decision-making centres in the hands of a very small group of large countries whose aim is to deepen the relationship of inequality between member states in a federal sense and to undermine national sovereignty, and to subject all the member states to the official doctrine of neoliberalism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the european union. the country fulfils all the criteria for accession to the european union, in particular the so-called 'copenhagen criteria': the existence of a rule of law, stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities, the existence of a functioning market economy, and the capacity to cope with competitive pressure and market forces in the union. the eu's position on the situation in the balkans is also reflected in the council conclusions of 15 december. i therefore look forward to welcoming croatia as the 28th member state of the eu on 1 july 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the 2012 global monitoring report on croatia which calls on croatian political and social actors to explore innovative ways to sustain the momentum and consensus required for reforms in the post-accession period, as well as to ensure that policy-makers are held accountable for the commitments made in the accession treaty.
in writing. − parliament reiterated that croatia's accession should not be interpreted as the end of a process but as an opportunity for the continued implementation of good practices, including the strengthening of the rule of law in democracy (by achieving an independent judiciary), the fight against corruption, fraud and mismanagement of funds, respect for fundamental rights and the fight against discrimination and intolerance, the promotion of freedom of expression, and the introduction of structural reforms to stimulate economic growth and boost the labour market. strict compliance with these targets generates real and lasting benefits for croatian citizens and brings renewed impetus to the enlargement process. finally, the follow-up report encourages croatia to play an active role in regional cooperation and reconciliation in the western balkan countries.
in writing. - croatia will officially join the european union on 1 july this year. as with all enlargements, the entry of a country brings with it the cultural and historical richness of the european project, under the motto 'united in diversity'. on the other hand, this enlargement in particular will act as a multiplier for regional stability in the balkans, showing the neighbouring countries that it is possible to be part of this european project. this overall monitoring report shows the efforts made by croatia at political, social, economic and judicial level through the implementation of the acquis communautaire. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also stressed the importance of croatia's cooperation with the international criminal court for the former yugoslavia, which is a key condition for stability in the region. i would also like to stress the importance of croatia in signalling projects for the erdf and ten-t, as regional policy and accessibility and mobility are of the utmost importance for the growth and development of this country.
in writing. - in our opinion, the decision to integrate new states into the european union must depend exclusively on the free choice of the peoples of the candidate countries, which is a choice of their own, which results from an act of sovereignty which we of course accept and respect in an absolutely unequivocal way. the pretext for this enlargement, always linked to the accession negotiation process, is the privatisation - already completed or in the process of being completed - of public tenders and contracts, the promotion of the development of the private sector, the continuation of the policy of fiscal consolidation, under the pretext of competitiveness, and the adoption of more flexible labour laws. there is no word for the thousands of unemployed - the unemployment rate stands at 19% - but there is concern that the law on strategic investments is not in line with european standards, urging the government to revise the law to better protect property rights. in short, we respect the decision of the croatian people in a referendum, but we warn against the enormous blackmail to which the country is being subjected.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, stressing the strategic role of turkey, in political and geographical terms, for the eu's foreign and neighbourhood policies. i also recognise the role to be played by turkey as a major regional actor and urge the continuation of the strengthening of the existing political dialogue between the eu and turkey on foreign policy options and objectives; i regret that turkey's alignment with the cfsp declarations will continue to be reduced in 2012. i encourage turkey to develop its foreign policy in the framework of dialogue and coordination with the eu and call on turkey and the eu to cooperate more closely to strengthen the forces of peace and democracy in the eu's southern neighbourhood, a region of critical importance to both the eu and turkey, and i express my support for dialogue and the re-establishment of relations between turkey and israel.
in writing. − turkey has a strategic role, in political and geographical terms, for the eu's external and neighbourhood policies, but i regret turkey's refusal to fulfil its obligation to implement the additional protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement in full and without any discrimination, and this refusal continues to profoundly affect the negotiating process. i stress the importance of education in the process of building an inclusive and diverse society, based on respect for religious communities and minorities, which should reflect the ethnic and religious plurality and the plurality of convictions of turkish society.
in writing. − turkey's accession negotiations began in 2005, in a long process conducted rigorously and with a view to promoting the necessary reforms, in particular with regard to the improvement and consolidation of its democratic institutions, the rule of law and a sound judicial system and legal framework that protects and enhances human rights and fundamental freedoms of all communities and citizens. turkey enjoys a strategic location, a key regional role and a high level of economic policy preparedness, with very positive economic growth. however, it is regrettable that there is no great progress in meeting the political criteria. unfortunately, for the seventh consecutive year, turkey continues to fail to implement the provisions of the eu-turkey association agreement and the additional protocol, which has profound consequences for the accession negotiation process. i congratulate both the ec and turkey for implementing a positive agenda, hoping that this can help to promote positive change and the necessary reforms. i also welcome the decision to strengthen cooperation between the eu and turkey in a number of important areas, such as energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the '2012 report on progress made by turkey' because i believe that work should continue on constitutional reforms, which bring together the consensus of the different forces in society, in a spirit of democratic pluralism, which also allows a peaceful solution to the kurdish conflict to be found.
in writing. - turkey has an admirable history and culture. it is an important strategic partner of the union and is at a crossroads. the question of turkey's accession to the european union raises the problem, which policy-makers usually try to avoid, of defining what is fundamental to the union and what its limits are. i am aware that many europeans see turkey as something outside of european culture, history and civilization and that its accession to the union is seen as unnatural. some governments have expressed reservations along these lines, and i believe that this is relevant to the future accession of that country. apart from these considerations, the objective criteria to be met by turkey, which would allow its accession to be discussed in more concrete terms, are still far from being met and have even been met with progress and setbacks. europe must be able to encourage turkey to continue along the path it has chosen and give it concrete reasons for hoping for a serious, productive and stable relationship with europe and for a closer relationship between its institutions and its citizens.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions. turkey is a very important partner of the eu and i would first of all like to express my appreciation to the turkish government for the efforts it has made to provide shelter and protection to the thousands of syrian refugees who have been demanding it in recent months. turkey's accession negotiations with the eu began on 3 october 2005, with the country making a number of commitments to implement reforms and maintain good neighbourly relations. despite the passing of the years, the truth is that turkey is still far from meeting the criteria for accession, particularly with regard to the copenhagen treaty. in may 2012, a "positive agenda" was launched with the aim of accelerating this process which is far behind in terms of the judicial system and fundamental rights, as well as in the areas of justice, freedom and security, exemplified by the many freedom activists held in turkish prisons. i therefore call on the turkish government to move swiftly and decisively forward with the reforms to which it has committed itself.
in writing. - this resolution confirms the strategic interest of the eu and its powers in turkey. he emphasises support for the 'democratic forces' in syria. it expressed support for dialogue and the re-establishment of relations between turkey and israel. the aim of economic integration of this country of some 80 million people into the eu's single market is clear. on the energy front, it is argued that turkey has the potential to play a key role in access to and control of energy sources and markets for oil, gas and electricity from the eu's neighbours. freedom of expression, pluralism of the media, labour and trade union rights, freedom of assembly and association, minority rights, defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms, abolition of torture and ill-treatment, independence of the judiciary from political power: all will be duly ignored or at least relativized. on the question of the turkish occupation of part of the territory of cyprus, the resolution blatantly misses the point: the demand for an end to the turkish military occupation in the north of the island. this resolution clearly reflects the eu's policy of double standards. we voted against it.
in writing. the european union is also considering the possibility of a new round of negotiations with turkey. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open the ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties and the annulment of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of the military courts are some illustrative examples of this. added background questions: most of turkey is not geographically europe; turkey has an islamic identity that is very different from the judeo-christian identity of most eu countries; strategically, an eu with borders with iraqi kurdistan would not be desirable; the secularity of the state is only guaranteed by military imposition; the transit of people from what would become the most populous country in the eu would ensure strong imbalances in the labour market. all this does not prevent the recognition of the efforts made by turkey in recent years to meet some of the eu's criteria of need, and it even points out the invaluable role of this country within nato. the relevant question will be whether it is not preferable to grant turkey a privileged and preferential partnership status with the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the package of incentives to boost investment and economic development in the less developed regions of turkey, although in the current european economic crisis, it is particularly important to be selective in this type of allocation.
in writing. − before acceding to the union, the candidate countries must put in place the necessary structural reforms to achieve the objectives in the various areas of the acquis communautaire. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. i would, however, like to make a point of the progress made in getting closer to european reality, stressing that this is a country which is fundamental to the european union.
in writing. - turkey has been trying to join the european project since the 1980s. however, accession negotiations did not begin until 2005. turkey is a key country not only in terms of geostrategic stability for the western balkans and the middle east, but also in terms of its military capability and energy potential. the prolongation of the negotiations is due, among other political reasons, to issues related to the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria, in particular the need for reforms in the judicial field and full respect for human and minority rights. the second is the question of the non-application in full of the additional protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement and the existing trade barriers. finally, i would like to stress that turkey must make efforts to reconcile with its neighbours and strengthen its role, particularly in the question of the unification of cyprus.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, welcoming the peaceful, free and fair holding of the recent legislative elections in accordance with international standards. i would stress that the electoral legislation is broadly in line with the recommendations of the venice commission and the osce/odihr. i would stress, however, that the legal framework must be fully in line with the osce/odihr recommendations, according to which no citizen can be subject to undue restrictions. i therefore call on the authorities to continue to improve the drawing up of electoral lists, to ensure transparency and supervision of campaign financing, and to ensure the correct application of party financing legislation, in particular by eliminating all forms of abuse, in particular the use of public funds for political purposes. i also ask that complaints be properly assessed, in line with the osce/odihr recommendations, in order to further increase citizens' confidence in the electoral process.
in writing. - i welcome the opening of negotiations with montenegro, as it is a positive sign for other countries in the region. however, reform processes need to be continued. i would stress the importance of good neighbourly relations and the constructive role of montenegro in regional cooperation, especially its active participation in numerous regional initiatives in south-east europe.
in writing. − montenegro has high levels of compliance with the accession criteria and appears to be committed to continuing on the path towards european union membership. i welcome the efforts made by the country in this respect and the democratic way in which the elections have been conducted in the country. it therefore seems that the decision to open accession negotiations was a good one. i hope that montenegro will be able to contribute to a closer integration of the region in which it is situated with the rest of europe, and that this will lead to accession, if and when the criteria are fully met and it is politically expedient for both sides to do so.
in writing. the resolution under discussion, drawn up by charles tannock, the permanent rapporteur on montenegro, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, focuses on the report on montenegro's progress in the process of joining the european union (eu) in 2012. on 29 june 2012, the council decided to open accession negotiations with montenegro. in december, the council acknowledged progress in its reforms, particularly in the adoption of anti-corruption and minority protection legislation. the rapporteur said that the preparatory work was of a high quality and that some chapters (rule of law, research, science, education and culture) had already been completed and others were well on their way, such as the one on respect for fundamental rights. but we must continue with constitutional reform, the fight against organised crime and corruption, respect for minorities and all civil and social rights. i welcome the fact that the parliamentary elections were held in a climate of confidence, which means democratic maturity, but a code of conduct for politicians and an end to attacks on journalists are necessary. because i believe that montenegro is on the right track, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - montenegro, like croatia and serbia, resulted from the process of dismemberment of the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia, driven by nato and the european powers, especially germany. the process culminated in much of the former yugoslavia plunged into poverty, with enormous economic disruption and ethnic strife. the eu was quick to promise new countries that they could join the eu once they met the criteria. criteria which denote the class nature of the eu, its neoliberal, reactionary and retrograde matrix. imports such as changes in labour laws, the deepening of the market economy, the implementation of privatisations and the abolition of price controls are unacceptable examples which do not serve the interests of the peoples of these countries.
in writing. - the recent decision by the council to open accession negotiations with montenegro is important. this decision represents an important step in the country's accession process and a clear confirmation of the importance for the eu of the european future of the western balkans. montenegro has made significant progress, as highlighted in the 2012 commission progress report on this matter. the recent elections and the way they have gone are also a demonstration of the good path montenegro is on. the formation of the new government is important, as will the political forces remain focused through constructive dialogue and close cooperation with civil society on the country's eu integration agenda.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses the country's strategic importance and its contribution to good neighbourly relations and montenegro's constructive role in regional cooperation, especially its active participation in numerous regional initiatives in south-east europe.
in writing. − on 29 june 2012, the council opened negotiations for the accession of the republic of montenegro to the eu. the opening of negotiations with the montenegrin authorities, alongside those with croatia, marks a positive development for the balkan region. for montenegro's accession to the eu, the country will still have to make an effort in the fields of social policy and employment, energy and environmental protection, as well as in the areas of security and civil rights. i believe that the republic of montenegro's compliance with all the recommendations enshrined in the stabilisation and association agreement will provide solid progress towards the eu.
in writing. − montenegro was granted candidate status in june 2012. the legislative elections held on 7 april have once again demonstrated that montenegro is moving towards a state based on the rule of law. like the other countries in the region, montenegro still faces problems in consolidating institutions, judicial independence and the fight against corruption and organised crime. however, it should be noted that these issues have been discussed in the process of accession to the union and that there is visible progress. stability in the western balkan region is seen as essential for montenegro's development and economic growth, as its main economic activity is tourism.
in writing. − at this plenary session, we are examining the eu accession applications of montenegro, croatia, serbia and kosovo, countries which resulted from the imperialist process of dismemberment of the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia, which ended with much of the former yugoslavia reduced to poverty, creating enormous economic disruption and ethnic conflict. for its part, the eu was quick to promise these 'new countries' that they could join the eu once they met the criteria set. imports such as the amendment of their labour laws, the deepening of the market economy, the implementation of privatisations and the abolition of price controls are unacceptable and do not serve the interests of the people. the european union is not a party to the treaty of maastricht, but it is a party to the treaty of maastricht, and it is not a party to the treaty of maastricht.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that accession negotiations with serbia can be opened as soon as the main priorities have been satisfactorily met and provided that the reform process continues, particularly as regards the rule of law. i also stress that this will demonstrate the eu's commitment to the enlargement process and the european perspective of the western balkan countries. i welcome the progress made by serbia in meeting the copenhagen political criteria, as acknowledged by the european commission in its 2012 follow-up report, and recall that serbia's future progress in the european integration process depends on the continuation of the reform process, in particular on the defence of democracy and the smooth functioning of democratic institutions, the defence of the rule of law, respect for human rights, the equitable and effective protection of all minorities in serbia in accordance with european standards, the maintenance of good neighbourly relations and good regional cooperation, including the peaceful resolution of bilateral issues, as well as the improvement of the functioning of the market economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the '2012 monitoring report on serbia', as i believe that serbia should continue on the path of eu integration and adopt the necessary structural reforms.
in writing. - the issue of serbia's accession to the european union is closely linked to the international status of kosovo. i believe, however, and even in view of the fact that not all member states recognise the independence of serbia, that serbia's willingness and capacity to join the union should be assessed in good faith. the progress it has made and the way in which it has sought to adopt practices and procedures more suited to its purpose are therefore undeniable. without serbia, the process of integration of the western balkans into the european union will not be completed. their accession, even if in the not-so-distant future, would mean a new beginning for the region and a further opportunity to heal the wounds that war and ethnic hatred unfortunately opened up during the process of dismemberment of yugoslavia. i hope that the negotiations can begin as soon as possible and that they will be productive.
in writing. - relations between formerly brotherly countries such as serbia and kosovo have not been the best in recent years. fortunately, in recent times, thanks to their desire to embrace the european project, the situation has improved and, despite the failure of the negotiations on 3 march, i hope that the meeting of the two prime ministers, mediated by the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, will bring about the much-desired agreement. serbia is facing a new opportunity and must seize it. however, in addition to the need to maintain good neighbourly relations, serbia needs to undertake a number of reforms both in the judicial system, notably with regard to the quality of law enforcement and the handling of cases, and in the fight against organised crime and corruption. i remember that 14 years ago, nato was bombing the city of belgrade. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i urge the serbian authorities to continue on their path towards eu integration.
in writing. - serbia has the status of a candidate country for accession, which was and is dependent on the belgrade agreement, on negotiations with pristina for the acceptance of kosovo's independence, a process which, we will remind you, was promoted in violation of the united nations charter, of several un resolutions and of the helsinki act and which, five years later, has still not been recognised by five eu member states and by 98 of the 193 member states of the united nations, facts which speak for themselves. while the eu's demands for the normalisation of relations with kosovo are well on their way, this resolution already sets out other demands (interference) such as, for example, legal uncertainty regarding the autonomy of vojvodina, the revision of articles of the criminal code, the examination of cases related to the freezing of assets, the retroactive collection of individuals and private companies, the immediate cessation of an extraordinary tax on profits. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the territory of the eu.
in writing. − serbia needs to achieve an appropriate degree of compliance with the accession criteria and key priorities in order to start accession negotiations without further delay. the start of eu accession negotiations in june 2013 is a viable objective. serbia must, however, pursue the democratic, systemic and socioeconomic reforms which will enable it to assume and effectively implement the obligations of accession. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the progress made in reforming the childcare system and the continued implementation of social protection legislation.
in writing. − serbia's eu integration path depends on strict adherence to the guidelines on judicial systems, the fight against corruption, media freedom, the protection of minorities, sustainable management of natural resources and, finally, economic reforms. i believe, in the light of the commission's conclusions, that the proper functioning of democratic institutions must be strengthened.
in writing. − stability in the balkan region is directly linked to the consolidation of the rule of law in serbia and kosovo. developments and progress in serbia have enabled the council to agree on 1 march 2012 on the status of candidate country, a symbol of the union's commitment to the western balkans. relations with the union have intensified following serbia's start of genuine cooperation on the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and the remarkable progress made in meeting the copenhagen criteria. for these reasons, i think it is necessary to speed up the ratification process of the stabilisation and association agreement, since lithuania is the only member state which has not yet ratified it. although we can talk about progress, there are still many problems to be solved. serbia has a weak economy, rampant unemployment and long-standing hatreds in civil society. the challenges are enormous for a country that is still rebuilding itself. the european union can and must make a difference in stabilising this region.
in writing. - serbia has a status of candidate country for eu membership, which was and is dependent on the belgrade agreement and negotiations with pristina for the acceptance of kosovo's independence, a process which, we recall, was carried out in flagrant violation of the un charter, of several un resolutions, in particular security council resolution 1244 (1999) and the helsinki act. kosovo has not been recognised by five eu member states and by 98 of the 193 un member states, facts which speak for themselves. this resolution advocates other conditions/interventions for accession such as the revision of articles of the criminal code, the retroactive charging of individuals and private companies and the immediate cessation of an extraordinary tax on profits. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the territory of the eu.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. i believe that the kosovo authorities should take additional steps to promote dialogue with the serb minority, especially in the north, so that they can fully integrate it into society, while ensuring the full application of the constitutional principle that gives the serbs of kosovo the right to access all official services in their own language. i also believe that cooperation between all the serbs in kosovo should be strengthened and that the commission should support related projects and promote contacts between the peoples. i also encourage all serbs in kosovo and their political representatives to take advantage of all the possibilities offered to them by the kosovo constitution to play a constructive role in politics and society. i also find the opening of an administrative centre in north mitrovica a positive step, noting, however, that many civil society activists in north mitrovica enjoy less freedom to carry out their actions, having faced a strengthening of nationalist integration sentiment over the past year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'european integration process for kosovo', considering that the signing of a stabilisation and association agreement represents an important step towards kosovo's future integration and, ultimately, its accession to the european union. i welcome the new high-level dialogue between belgrade and pristina, mediated by the european union, which should contribute to the normalisation of relations between the parties.
in writing. - i wrote about a year ago that the recognition of kosovo's independence remains a controversial issue for five of the 27 member states and that this circumstance clearly demonstrated the non-consensual way in which that status was achieved and the doubts that it still raises internationally, as well as the fact that several irregularities raised fears about the viability of kosovo. a year later, those doubts remain. the end of supervised independence on 10 september 2012 marked a first milestone towards the political and social stabilisation of kosovo, but it must be acknowledged that much remains to be done. in this process of two-faced assertion external and internal the role of serbia and the serb majority in kosovo is enlarged. without structured dialogue with your neighbour and the ability to recognise and value the role of that minority, it will become much more difficult to achieve satisfactory results. the european option for kosovo imposes on its rulers requirements of rigour, transparency and reform that only the future can tell whether they will be adequately met. i hope that they will be and that the region will move towards the peace and stability that its people so much deserve.
in writing. - kosovo is the youngest state in europe, having become independent only five years ago. moreover, its status has not yet been recognised by all countries. of the 193 member states of the united nations, 95 - about half - do not recognize their independence. despite its youth, this country has already embarked on a significant set of reforms. the signing of a stabilisation and association agreement is a very important step towards future eu integration. i would like to stress the visa-free regime which will allow their participation in eu programmes. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution drawn up by ulrike lunacek on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the report on kosovo's progress in the european union (eu) integration process in 2012, because i recognise kosovo's role in pacifying that region and i encourage the kosovo authorities to pursue the establishment of the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime. finally, i would like to appeal to the 5 eu member states that have not yet recognised kosovo as an independent state although they agree with its european perspective to do so as soon as possible.
in writing. - on 21 march 1999, under the pretext of avoiding a humanitarian catastrophe in kosovo, nato air strikes hit yugoslavia, causing thousands of casualties and destroying factories, bridges and motorways. the economic structure of yugoslavia is completely ruined and kosovo is turned into a nato protectorate, despite the fact that un resolution 1244 considers that territory to be an integral part of serbia. fourteen years after the attack on serbia and five years after the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, reality has shown that the artificial creation of a pseudo-state under controlled sovereignty was anything but sovereign and did not correspond to the interests of the peoples involved. the resolution we are discussing proves this beyond a shadow of a doubt: only in july 2012 is the supervised independence terminated; the mandate of eulex is re-validated with a view to renewing and intensifying its efforts to improve the rule of law in kosovo and to provide oversight, guidance and advice; discrimination remains a serious problem; there are still tensions in the region. on the social level, poverty has increased dramatically, child mortality has increased dramatically, the social protection system has been drastically reduced. we voted against it.
in writing. - it is unanimous that the countries belonging to the western balkans region have a vocation to become eu members. in the near future, that will be a reality. in this context, we have kosovo, which has had a difficult time since the break-up of the former yugoslavia following the capitulation of the soviet empire. however, the so-called 'war' in kosovo, which remains unresolved and is highly controversial throughout the international community, has also helped to make peace in this region a reality. as i have never personally supported the process of independence for kosovo, i cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, and therefore i have voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the projects for new road infrastructure to improve links between pristina and the border countries. these will certainly encourage further economic development.
in writing. − kosovo's eu integration path depends on strict adherence to the guidelines on judicial systems, the fight against corruption, media freedom, the protection of minorities, sustainable management of natural resources and, finally, economic reforms. i am confident, in the light of the commission's conclusions, that we can work together to strengthen the proper functioning of democratic institutions.
in writing. − the independence of kosovo, recognised by 22 of the 27 eu member states, and good neighbourly relations between pristina and belgrade are a sine qua non for stability in the region and for the process of integration into the european union. the supervised independence of kosovo ended on 10 september 2012, allowing the union to act as an intermediary for the stabilisation process between serbia and kosovo. even if some member states do not recognise the country, the union considers it essential that they facilitate economic, social and political relations between them. it should be stressed that this divergence did not prevent the conclusion of a stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. i would like to emphasise the importance of the european union rule of law mission in kosovo, eulex kosovo, which has been operational since 2009, and the visible efforts in sustainable development and the consolidation of its institutions. the dialogue between pristina and belgrade must continue and the support of the union and the international community is undoubtedly essential to boost the growth and economic development of the western balkans. there is also work with civil society, conciliation and respect for human rights.
in writing. - on 21 march 1999, under the pretext of avoiding a 'humanitarian catastrophe' in kosovo, nato air strikes hit yugoslavia, causing thousands of casualties and destroying factories, bridges and motorways. the economic structure of yugoslavia is completely ruined and kosovo is turned into a nato protectorate, despite the fact that un resolution 1244 (1999) considers that territory to be an integral part of serbia. fourteen years after the attack on serbia and five years after the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo, reality has shown that the artificial creation of a 'pseudo-state' under 'supervised sovereignty' was anything but sovereign and did not correspond to the interests of the peoples involved. the resolution we are discussing proves this beyond a shadow of a doubt: only in july 2012 is the supervised independence terminated; the mandate of eulex is re-affirmed to 'renew and intensify its efforts to improve the rule of law in kosovo' and to 'supervise, guide and advise'; discrimination remains a serious problem; there are still tensions in the region. kosovo is a long way from the immense social gains made by the peoples of yugoslavia. we voted against it.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution, noting the reservations made by the esrb on 9 december 2011 regarding a financial indicator, in which the esrb states that the panel of indicators 'should include short-term liabilities (the set of liabilities with a maturity of one year) for the non-consolidated financial sector, net of bank deposits, as part of the total liabilities '... this indicator should be preferred over indicators based on capital measures dependent on the flow of funds, such as leverage or debt ratios because, being capital valued at market value, it is very sensitive to stock market movements.' i also call on the commission to recognise the role of the european parliament in economic governance. i therefore call on the commission, in particular on its president and the commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs, to respect parliament as a co-legislator in the field of multilateral surveillance, as provided for inter alia in articles 121 (6) and 136 tfeu, and to treat parliament on an equal footing with the council with regard to all union acts in this field.
in writing. − the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is a policy instrument introduced with the six pack and constitutes an important pillar of economic governance in the euro area designed to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the member states, with particular attention to imbalances with potential spillover effects between countries. as part of the regulation of this procedure, the european commission should submit, for consideration by the competent committees of the european parliament and the council, suggestions on plans to establish and adapt the indicators and thresholds. however, in november 2012, an indicator was added, a situation in which the council was consulted and parliament was only informed, which was regretted by the latter institution. parliament calls on the european commission to fully respect its status as co-legislator in the field of multilateral surveillance, as provided for, inter alia, in articles 121 (6) and 136 tfeu, and to treat parliament on an equal footing with the council with regard to all union acts in this field. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − as part of the adoption of the first economic governance package, a set of 10 indicators was selected against which the european commission should assess the macroeconomic performance of each member state and, according to the parameters selected, decide whether or not an imbalance exists that should be corrected. according to the adopted regulation, any amendment or subsequent inclusion of indicators in the original list should be agreed in advance and communicated to the european parliament. however, this was not the case when the european commission adopted a new indicator in november 2012, which aims to ensure that intra-institutional agreements are respected and always observed, in the name of good intra-institutional relations and respect for community law.
in writing. the motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled following an oral question by mrs sharon bowles on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, concerns the final version of the indicator panel for the procedure on macroeconomic imbalances. in november 2011, the commission added a new indicator on the growth rate of financial liabilities to the above-mentioned panel. under the current regulations, the commission should have consulted the european parliament (ep) before publishing the new indicator and the related alert mechanism, as the ep has the same rights as the council under the lisbon treaty. although the commission claims that the ep was consulted, the truth is that on 19 november 2012 we were informed that there was one more indicator and we were waiting to be consulted. months passed and it was only on the eve of publication that we learned about the new indicator. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because, without calling into question the need for macroeconomic quality control, i believe that the commission has not treated the council and parliament on an equal footing.
in writing. - without prejudice to the small wars or apparent disagreements between the european parliament and the european commission on the procedure for information and decision-making on the procedure for macroeconomic imbalances (pdm), what prevails is the absolute agreement of the two institutions with the process of economic governance and the european semester, their willingness to impose on sovereign states with profoundly different economic and social realities, with their own specificities and development needs and to require measures appropriate to this same reality, the same neoliberal orientation, of neocolonial cutting, erected in the category of a single and official doctrine. the big question here is what use will be made of these indicators. in this case, the indicators are intended to support the continuation of an economic, social and political disaster course or to sanction sovereign states for non-compliance. this is an unacceptable process aimed at imposing measures which are destructive of the national economies of countries such as portugal, stealing the sovereign and democratic rights of the people, destroying the labour and social rights of workers and peoples, and imposing a historic retreat in terms of civilisation.
in writing. − the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is a policy instrument introduced with the six pack and constitutes an important pillar of economic governance in the euro area designed to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the member states, with particular attention to imbalances with potential spillover effects between countries. as part of the regulation of this procedure, the commission should submit, for consideration by the competent committees of the european parliament and the council, suggestions on plans to establish and adapt the indicators and thresholds. however, in november 2012, an indicator was added, a situation in which the council was consulted and parliament was only informed, which was regretted by the latter institution. parliament, with my full support, calls on the commission to fully respect its status as co-legislator in the field of multilateral surveillance, as provided for inter alia in articles 121 (6) and 136 tfeu, and to treat parliament on an equal footing with the council with regard to all union acts in this field.
in writing. − the macroeconomic imbalance procedure is a policy instrument introduced with the six pack and constitutes an important pillar of economic governance in the euro area designed to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the member states, with particular attention to imbalances with potential spillover effects between countries. as part of the regulation of that procedure, the commission should submit, for consideration by the competent committees of the european parliament and of the council, suggestions on plans to establish and adapt the indicators and thresholds. however, in november 2012, an indicator was added, a situation in which the council was consulted and parliament was only informed, which was regretted by the latter institution. parliament, with my full support, calls on the commission to fully respect its status as co-legislator in the field of multilateral surveillance, as provided for inter alia in articles 121 (6) and 136 tfeu, and to treat parliament on an equal footing with the council with regard to all union acts in this field.
in writing. − the six pack introduced the macroeconomic imbalance procedure as a policy instrument, forming a basic pillar of the euro area's economic governance, whose main objective is to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the member states, as well as to avoid potential contagion between countries. in november 2012, a new indicator was added on macroeconomic imbalances, a situation on which the council was consulted but the european parliament was only informed, which was regretted by the latter institution and, in particular, by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i agree with my colleague that parliament must always be consulted when we are faced with similar issues, and there is thus increasing cooperation between european institutions with the aim of solving the financial crisis currently in force.
in writing. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. what is thus once again being demonstrated is the absolute agreement of the majority of the ep to the process of economic governance and the european semester, its willingness to impose on sovereign states with profoundly different economic and social realities, with their own specificities and development needs and the need for measures adapted to this same reality, a grid of indicators that ignore this situation. indicators aimed at imposing an economic, social and political disaster course or sanctioning sovereign states for non-compliance. this is an unacceptable process aimed at imposing measures which are destructive of the national economies of countries such as portugal, stealing the sovereign and democratic rights of the people, destroying the labour and social rights of workers and peoples, and imposing a historic retreat in terms of civilisation.
the european union cannot turn a blind eye to the continuing human rights violations of the vietnamese people, including political intimidation, harassment, assaults, arbitrary arrests, forced evictions, heavy prison sentences and unfair trials against bloggers, cyber-dissidents and human rights defenders, in clear violation of its international obligations and the general principles set out in the eu-vietnam partnership and cooperation agreement. in the context of this agreement, the eu should press the government to amend laws restricting freedom of expression, press and religion, and assist the authorities in making these reforms, involving civil society, so that they meet international standards. the enhanced human rights dialogues must insist on the unconditional release of political prisoners and must also be transparent about the objectives to be achieved and the guarantees provided by the vietnamese government. only then can parliament and civil society scrutinise the results achieved. i hope that the commission will act on the recommendations of this resolution, particularly in the context of the negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and vietnam, which is another opportunity for us to contribute to the improvement of the situation of the vietnamese people.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the guantanamo resolution, and i would like to express my frustration at not having done so today. there are 150 people in the illegal prison camp at guantanamo for 11 years without trial, many of them certainly innocent, all without a trial with a necessary, fair, legal defense, and many of them are currently on hunger strike, at risk of dying, being force-fed day in and day out, so we are facing an emergency situation. i think it is a disgrace to this house that we have decided to have only a debate without a political resolution, because a parliament is a place where we debate to give a political message, we do not debate as at the coffee table, we debate because there are human beings in the rest of the world who need us to have a political resolution and who demand, in this case from the united states, by virtue of the responsibility of european countries for having cooperated in the detention and illegal kidnapping of prisoners to guantánamo, that this problem be solved, can no longer wait. and i must also, in conclusion, since i have a few seconds, express my displeasure that some of my colleagues have used this week's attack in boston, whose victims i sympathize with, to get a postponement of the vote on the resolution, which they were seeking even before the attack took place. people should never be used as a means to achieve political ends.
i would like to congratulate mr reul on his report on the challenges and opportunities for renewable energy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in this context, the itre committee highlighted the importance of energy, proposing to increase the horizon 2020 budget for the societal energy challenge from 7.5% to 8.4%, alongside an ambitious and very comprehensive work programme. finally, i would like to stress the importance of all measures to reduce the cost of renewable energy, in order to reconcile the objectives of security of energy supply, combating climate change and the competitiveness of european companies. only then will it be possible to set ambitious and realistic targets. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – we in the committee on industry, research and energy have voted unanimously on a more ambitious programme for energy societal challenge in horizon 2020, with the main objective of achieving 75% earmarking for renewable energy and energy efficiency. one of the main objectives is to lower the costs of the clean technologies associated with renewables and energy efficiency. we are also putting a lot of effort into energy storage. we need more technologies for storage, in order to be able to take advantage of the full potential of renewable energies. we have also put forward energy technologies market uptake – that is the continuation of intelligent energy europe. we hope that the council and the commission will agree with our proposal. we are aiming to finalise horizon 2020 negotiations very soon, together with the other rapporteurs such as ms teresa riera madurell.
it is essential to invest in the development of renewables, although we believe that before setting targets, a serious and careful survey would be necessary to quantify and classify renewable energy resources. but we are definitely against the policy option advocated here of integrating renewable energies into the european internal energy market. this report says that state influence results in higher prices for final consumers and that liberalisation has played a central role in lowering energy prices for all consumers in the european union. but that's just not true. in my country, portugal, privatisation in the sector has resulted in monopolisation and successive price increases. for example, in 2012 they increased by 8,9% compared to the previous year while the profits of the companies exceeded all forecasts and also increased successively. renewables, yes, but to fight energy poverty and social inequalities, to protect the environment, not to create another multi-million dollar business at the expense of exploiting consumers.
for the gue/ngl group it seems to me that it is clear from the proposal we are voting on tomorrow that, once again, we have not learned from disasters. this proposal comes in the wake of the 2010 gulf of mexico disaster, and what we have on the table falls far short of what would be a necessary and urgent response to this situation. it is true that the proposal states that companies must submit a disaster plan, but it seems to me also obvious that the main objective of this proposal would be to avoid disaster and not to submit a disaster plan. unfortunately, in energy matters, and whenever we discuss it in the european institutions, in the clash between citizens and multinationals, the multinationals always win, the business always wins. it is also true that the arctic is not part of the territory of the european union, but we know that there are companies operating in the arctic, and so if they want to include public consultation, as is included, by the way, in the proposal that will be adopted tomorrow, i think by the majority of this house, then why not listen to the appeals: the appeals of the ngos and of the citizens who do not want drilling, do not want exploitation in extreme or sensitive environments, because it is the whole planet that is at stake, it is the whole environment and that is what we must take into account.
i would like to congratulate mr belet on his excellent report. i fully support the proposal to consider an extended mandate for the european maritime safety agency and to include the agency in emergency response when cross-border effects of offshore oil and gas activities are foreseeable. i would also remind you that the extension of the powers of the lisbon agency was already included in my proposed recommendations, which were endorsed in the ford report adopted in 2011. ensuring safety standards and greater coordination at eu level and with neighbouring countries is essential to ensure best practice in safety and also in environmental terms for all regions of europe and its neighbouring regions.
mr president, the scarcity and the gradual exhaustion of fossil fuels make extraction activities increasingly complex, costly and risky. the environmental, economic and social impacts of these activities are profound and must be increasingly carefully considered, and warrant a broad debate on the enormous dependence on this primary source of energy, a debate on the necessary reduction and rationalisation of energy consumption and on the frugal management of the remaining fossil resources. unfortunately, it seems to be going the other way. the fact that the proposal for a moratorium on the exploitation of resources in the arctic has been dropped is a demonstration of this, as it is also a demonstration of the appetites and disputes that lie behind the so-called strategies for the region. however, as long as offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities continue, it is essential that operators in the event of a disaster bear a wide range of costs and responsibilities, both in preventing disasters and in dealing with disasters that cannot be excluded.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament i am also speaking here as rapporteur on the programme for the resettlement of refugees, that is to say, the resettlement of refugees in third countries into the territory of the union. already during the drafting of my report i supported the own-initiative report by our colleague mr triantaphyllides on the relocation of refugees, that is, refugees who are already in countries of the union but who can be redistributed so that effective solidarity between member states can take place. the existence of an effective programme for the relocation of refugees within the union would be very important for a number of reasons, i will just mention a few: first of all, because it enables us to deal with humanitarian crises such as the one currently being experienced in syria, where the european union also needs to exert its weight in the geopolitical game. cyprus has already said that it could relocate refugees if they were not confined to cyprus. cyprus is only a few kilometres from the syrian coast, a few kilometres from the turkish region of hatay, where hundreds of thousands of refugees are, and this step by the european union could help to unlock a very important humanitarian crisis there. there is no effective resettlement programme without the counterpart of relocation, that is my second reason, and as a third reason i would say that the council, which unfortunately does not participate in this debate, has always insisted that article 80 of the treaties, on solidarity between member states, does not apply as the legal basis of our legislation because it always applies as the programmatic basis of all the treaties. now is the time to prove what they say is true with regard to the treaties by starting a relocation programme between member states.
mr president, mr barroso once said that austerity had reached its limits, and that even if the policies of budgetary correction were correct, they were not politically and socially sustainable. a day later, he contradicts himself and says the same austerity is indispensable. whatever he says, the fact is that austerity policies result in immense social tragedy and a downward spiral that only creates more recession. after the portuguese constitutional court ruled against several of the troika's budgetary measures, the european commission hastened to congratulate the portuguese government on its willingness to keep its commitments to the adjustment programme. the european commission is not interested in pensioners or workers, but only in austerity and recession. the portuguese people have already understood this and, in a recent poll, 82% support renegotiating or even abandoning the memorandum with the troika. you can say that the polls don't vote, very well, but then if we were really going to vote, wouldn't it be a good idea to give the floor back to the citizens?
mr president, our colleague renata weber has done an excellent job in her report on freedom and pluralism of the press in europe, a report which i think is well suited to the new times after the lisbon treaty and to the new times of the media reality on the ground. there are no longer any media that are local, there are no longer any news that are local, they all concern all europeans, the recent debates on the euro area have proved this and have also proved that a media sphere is essential to the european public debate to ensure the functioning of european democracy. in this sense, too, the comments that have been made or the report that has been made by the high level group that commissioner kroes has appointed in good time, and i believe that now, with this new interpretation that tells us that the european union has a real interest, has citizens' requests to move forward with legislation on the media and has a legal basis to do so, it is time to finally get rid of the arguments, sometimes completely artificial, about subsidiarity and to take an interest in the aspect of defending the fundamental right to information and to integrity and independent journalism in the territory of the member states.
mr president, the commission's green paper, the white paper and this report, which in practice supports its basic ideas, have two very simple basic objectives: to promote the raising of the retirement age and also to promote the sale of financial products, i.e. the so-called supplement to the individual pension scheme of the third pillar. the fight against youth unemployment is naturally in contradiction with the increase in the retirement age. it is not a question of promoting healthy ageing, as many would have us believe, but rather of taking away a right won by workers through decades of struggle, namely the right to a dignified retirement and to leisure time enshrined in the right to retire. this is not about making the pension system more sustainable, but about reducing employer contributions to public social security systems and promoting the business of retirement savings plans sold by banks and from which they make millions. the aim here is to transform public systems of universal and solidarity-based pensions into private systems, accessible only to those who have the financial capacity to buy financial products. the question is not one of demography, but one of redistribution of wealth and income. in portugal, the troika supports the recent increase in the retirement age from 65 to 66 and the decrease in employers' contributions to social security systems. this parliament may approve all this, but the workers' struggle will be decisive in the end.
mr president, there is no credible and effective regional development strategy for industrial areas on the basis of the persistence of the present policies. cohesion policy, which has never been allocated sufficient resources, a situation which will be aggravated by the next multiannual financial framework, is far from compensating for the effects of common policies in deindustrialising and destroying important productive sectors, especially in the peripheral countries. this is the reason for the chronic deficit and debt dependency that these countries face, a situation that has been greatly aggravated by economic and monetary union. more than palliative parks which take this process of deindustrialization as an inevitability, endogenous development strategies are needed, which promote the sustainable use of the resources of each region and the strengthening of its productive sectors. the commission's proposal is to be implemented by the european union budget and requires a break with the neoliberal policies which support the process of capitalist integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the great scandal of the present economy. in portugal, we buy our products in the local supermarket, that's where we do our business, and the local supermarket pays its taxes in the netherlands; in the netherlands, passengers ride on dutch trains, pay their tickets in the netherlands and the railway company pays its taxes in ireland. and in ireland, as our colleague paul murphy has explained to us, apple, google, facebook pay taxes at a quarter of one percent, a third of one percent, a fifth of one percent. the second scandal is that this issue has not been a priority for the council so far and we know that when the council meets tomorrow for two hours, they will probably tell us the two things they have been saying for the last few days: firstly, that it is impossible to end tax havens outside our jurisdiction and, secondly, that to harmonize taxes we need unanimity. ladies and gentlemen, we do not need either one or the other to put an end to these two scandals, we do not need to do away with tax havens to do what we in europe can do, which is to take the oxygen out of tax havens. the oxygen of tax havens is opacity, it's not transferring information. we, who have our banks at this moment in time needing to form a banking union to ensure their credibility and who are supported by taxpayers, must say: european banks, like the big european accountancy firms and law firms, must give all the information about what their subsidiaries are doing in the territory of the union or outside it, and that would be a great step forward for now.
mr president, at tomorrow's council a great deal of europe's credibility is at stake. i am addressing you, madam president-in-office of the council, and i say that it is not politically legitimate for the council to impose unbearable tax burdens on ordinary citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises, while letting a billion euros slip away with its apathy. it is not possible, madam president, it is not legitimate to block the european budget for lack of resources, to have no european growth and investment policy for lack of resources and to let the amount eight times larger than the european budget escape through fraud and tax evasion. the council must clarify which interests it defends or it will lose democratic legitimacy. the council must answer the citizens why it is turning a blind eye to the lack of cooperation, to say the least, in the case of luxembourg, the netherlands, the united kingdom, ireland, which is also your country, as i say, or austria. does the council have to explain why it has refused for so long to give the commission a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the european union with switzerland, liechtenstein, monaco, andorra, etc.? why is it that in the g8 and the g20 we do nothing but make interesting speeches? why is it that, as the world's largest financial center, we continue to tolerate that in the british virgin islands, for example, there are 16 financial corporations per capita, it's a land of 28,000 people but there are 457,000 companies, according to official data released in 2011. madam president, the practices that need to be implemented are fully identified, both in the report by our colleague, mrs mojca kleva kekuš, and in the numerous proposals made by the commission itself. what is needed at this stage is to clarify what constitutes fraud, what constitutes a breach of the common law and what constitutes good administrative practice. and this clarification must be done through european legislative work. the council and the presidency must act now. the citizens cannot stand any more words, they need action and less talk of political hypocrisy.
mr president, i would naturally like to greet the president and the commissioners and say the following: this council is extremely important because it is affecting two fundamental factors of competitiveness for europe: one is the energy factor, the cost of energy, and the other is the tax factor and, in particular, the cost of tax evasion. these are two decisive factors for europe's competitiveness and for its competitive training. i should like to focus on the tax issue because time is short. i must say that it is essential to have an exchange of information, to have a limitation, if not even an eradication of tax havens, but we must realize that the fight against tax evasion, which here has a set of interesting measures, is not independent of the tax system itself that we have set up and what i think is still very unclear in the european union is what kind of tax system we want for the union. do we want to give the countries in greatest difficulty the conditions for being fiscally competitive or do we want total tax harmonization and uniformity? on the other hand, do we want a very high tax system which itself promotes tax evasion, or do we want a moderate tax system which mitigates tax evasion? i must say that my country has made enormous progress in terms of tax evasion, extraordinary progress, particularly when the current president of the commission was prime minister and has in fact greatly strengthened the fight against tax evasion, and the results have been very good since then. but today, because of the financial assistance programme, we have seen taxes rise so much that i fear that the good levels of combating tax evasion that we have achieved may be lost, and so there must be the idea that combating tax evasion also depends on the options we have for the tax system in the european union as a whole, because it does not depend only on these measures which are directly aimed at combating tax evasion.
mr president, from 2000 to 2012, over eur 170 billion were transferred from portugal into tax havens – and that is just the officially recorded amount. tax evaders were aided by banks, lawyers and financial experts whom the portuguese government also regularly hired to supposedly outsource to them the defence of state interests, all of which usually ended up in corrupt contracts and laws full of loopholes to assist tax criminals. last year, with the country already under bail-out and with taxes on the people who pay them drastically raised, the portuguese government granted a tax amnesty to tax criminals, allowing them to keep secrecy and pay a ridiculous fine of 7.5% to legalise and keep – mostly in switzerland – more than eur 3 or 4 billion, not even demanding repatriation of that capital, all with the troika’s blessing. lagarde lists and liechtenstein lists actually serve to protect tax criminals and allow them to be shrouded in even more secrecy by the portuguese authorities. (the president cuts off the speaker.)
the european council of 22 may will take a decision on the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion currently taking place in the european union, which could amount to more than eur 1 billion annually, equivalent to the european budget for the next seven years (2014-2020). this is a very interesting subject and should be given the utmost attention by the european leaders, because we cannot be demanding additional sacrifices from the citizens of some member states and not adjusting tax control in our own countries. it is therefore essential that new regulatory frameworks are created, with proposals and concrete actions aimed at reducing tax fraud and evasion, and also improving the exchange of information between member states.
in writing. the solutions presented here for all problems involve the transfer of powers from the institutions of national sovereignty to the eu, such as the establishment of a common corporate tax base or the removal of the competence of countries to negotiate tax agreements with third countries and passing it on to the commission. but if the aim is to actually extend the existing tax base and reduce the tax differential, then other measures would have to be proposed. why is there never any mention of the effects of liberalization of capital movements in terms of loss of tax revenue? why is it natural for the governments and the ecb to allocate large sums of money and public funds to the banking system? it refers to the fight against tax havens but never to the real need to dismantle them to prevent billions of euros of tax evasion from being transferred to these havens. nor is there any mention of the increase in tax revenue from those who contribute little or nothing to the tax system but have considerable means and assets.
in writing. − in the field of aviation, international relations between member states (ms) and third countries are governed by bilateral air services agreements, which include a 'designation clause' allowing a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend licences or authorisations granted to an air carrier designated by a member state. in 2002, the court of justice of the european union (eu) ruled that the 'designation clause' infringes eu law. in june 2003, the council authorised the european commission to negotiate so-called horizontal agreements with third countries, thereby allowing all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and thus opening up access, without discrimination, to air links between the eu and third countries. in the present case, sri lanka has signed 15 bilateral agreements the provisions of which have to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the eu. thus, article 2 provides that in exercising its rights, sri lanka shall not discriminate between air carriers of member states on grounds of nationality. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - i agree with the conclusion of this agreement so that european airlines benefit from the right of establishment and non-discriminatory access to air links between the european union and sri lanka.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this recommendation. the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka will allow the provisions of the 15 bilateral agreements signed between member states and sri lanka to be replaced by a single, more comprehensive agreement concluded on behalf of the european union. the horizontal agreement concluded on behalf of the european union commits sri lanka not to discriminate against air carriers of member states on the basis of their nationality. this allows all carriers in the european union to enjoy the right of establishment and access to the land routes between the european union and sri lanka in equal circumstances.
in writing. - the so-called 'designation clause' infringed community law and was contrary to the principle of equality between aircraft operators. the court of justice ruled in this respect and therefore the air service agreements in which it was incorporated had to be amended. the eu-sri lanka agreement is one of the legal instruments that needs to be revised. the parties have agreed to this and parliament must give its consent. i do so in the hope that the relationship between europe and sri lanka - which dates back to the 16th century and the arrival of the portuguese in that asian country - will be strengthened and grow to the benefit of both peoples and their economies.
in writing. - mr petri sarvamaa has presented us with a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka. according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), international relations between member states (eu) and third countries in the field of aviation, so-called bilateral air service agreements, should be established at eu level so that there is no discrimination against community carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. in this connection, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i voted in favour of this recommendation that the 15 bilateral agreements signed with sri lanka be replaced by a single agreement drawn up on behalf of the eu so that sri lanka does not discriminate against eu air carriers on grounds of nationality.
in writing. − international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation are traditionally regulated by bilateral air services agreements, which are drawn up and concluded between the two parties. in the present case, sri lanka has signed 15 bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which are now replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the eu, allowing all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and giving them access to air links between the eu and these countries. as we have said in previous agreements of this kind with other countries, the aim is to expand and liberalize the air services market by encouraging monopolistic concentration in the increasingly privatised sector, a factor which contributes greatly to worsening working conditions, to the withdrawal of rights from workers in this sector and to the degradation of the services provided, including safety conditions. although portugal has no bilateral agreement with sri lanka, we consider that these agreements not only prevent member states from defending their flag carriers, but also represent a reduction of the sovereignty of countries in a strategic sector, compromising the safeguarding of national interests.
in writing. − international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. these agreements include a 'designation clause' which allows a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend licences or authorisations granted to an air carrier designated by a member state but not substantially owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that this traditional designation clause infringes eu law. the commission notes that the sri lankan authorities have not provided any evidence that the air carriers in question are operating in sri lanka. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the european parliament's draft legislative resolution approves the conclusion of the eu-sri lanka agreement. in the field of aviation, international relations between member states and third countries are governed by bilateral air services agreements, which may include in their wording a 'designation clause' authorising a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend licences or authorisations granted to an air carrier designated by a member state. the court of justice of the european union has held that, by discriminating against community carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned or controlled by nationals of other member states, the clause in bilateral air service agreements infringes union law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime sector, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's maritime sector. in view of the rapporteur's recommendation, i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − following the judgment of the eu court of justice in 2002 that member states' bilateral aviation agreements infringed union law, the commission is renegotiating horizontal agreements with third countries establishing the eu designation clause. the commission notes that the sri lankan authorities have not provided any evidence that the air carriers in sri lanka are operating in sri lanka. in the specific case of sri lanka, there are 15 bilateral agreements which will be replaced by this horizontal agreement. the importance of these horizontal agreements in the field of aviation has effects not only in terms of environmental and safety regulations but also in terms of potential investments for both parties.
in writing. − international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation are traditionally governed by bilateral air services agreements, which are drawn up and agreed between the two parties. in the present case, sri lanka has signed 15 bilateral agreements whose relevant provisions are now replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the eu, allowing all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and opening access to air links between the eu and these countries. as we have said in previous agreements of this kind with other countries, the aim is to expand and liberalize the air services market by encouraging monopolistic concentration in the increasingly privatised sector, a factor which contributes greatly to worsening working conditions, to the withdrawal of rights from workers in this sector and to the degradation of the services provided, including safety conditions.
in writing. − eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation set up by the international convention for the safety of air navigation of 13 december 1960 (revised and consolidated by the protocol of 27.06.1997) which plays a central role in the management of european airspace (atm). the european commission has designated eurocontrol as the performance review body for the european sky (esa) and the network manager for the air traffic management functions, in accordance with the single european sky (ses) legislation. this agreement aims to ensure synergies and avoid duplication of the work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) in relation to safety-related air traffic management and environmental issues. the objective is to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol, so as to enable eurocontrol to support the eu in the implementation of the ess and related eu policies. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − i agree with the conclusion of this agreement to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol and thus contribute to the successful implementation of the single european sky.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this recommendation which will give the council the green light to conclude the agreement providing for a general framework for enhanced cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation. this agreement aims to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the european union and eurocontrol in order to enable eurocontrol to support the european union in the implementation of the single european sky and related european policies. it also aims to enhance synergies and avoid duplication of work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) in relation to safety-related air traffic management and environmental issues. i would also remind you that eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from all over europe, including all eu member states except estonia. eurocontrol plays a central role in the management of european air traffic and is therefore, through this agreement, now confirmed as the technical and operational arm of the european union for the development and deployment of the 'single european sky'.
in writing. − eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from across europe, with a central role in the management of european air traffic and is also responsible for monitoring legislation on the single european sky. the aim of the agreement we are now voting on is to strengthen cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol so that it can support the implementation of the single european sky and the eu's air safety and air navigation policies. i think that parliament should give its consent to this agreement.
in writing. − on 20 december 2012, the european commission signed an agreement with eurocontrol, an intergovernmental organisation of 39 states including all member states (ms) except estonia , which plays a central role in european air traffic management (atm). this is an agreement which confirms that eurocontrol is the eu's technical and operational arm for the development and implementation of the ses [single european sky]; lists the areas of cooperation and defines the terms and conditions of such cooperation; and aims to ensure synergies and avoid duplication of work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) with regard to air traffic management issues related to safety and environmental issues. since the council needs the european parliament's approval to conclude the agreement referred to above, which also provides for the creation of a joint committee responsible for its management and operation, i voted in favour of the recommendation put forward by mr jaromír kohlíček.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national air traffic controllers. we are therefore looking at strengthening and consolidating cooperation to support the implementation of the single european sky and the related liberalization policies, both within the eu and outside the eu, as stated in the agreement. a process that calls into question national sovereignty, labour rights, the quality of services and safety levels, in order to guarantee more profits to the big companies in the airline industry. progress in the area of better coordination and use of airspace can and should be achieved within the framework of maintaining the sovereignty of each state over its own airspace, which is essential for the defence of the specific interests of each country, whether in the field of commercial aviation or in the field of defence. the agreement recalls that eurocontrol signed a memorandum of cooperation with nato in 2003, which sets out civil-military cooperation in terms of capacity, flexibility, efficiency and safety of the european aviation network in its objectives. we voted against it.
in writing. − eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from across europe, including all eu member states except estonia, which plays a central role in european air traffic management (atm). in accordance with the single european sky (ses) legislation, the commission has designated eurocontrol as the performance review body for ses (in 2010) and the network manager for the air traffic management network functions (in 2011). the objective of the agreement is to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol, in order to enable eurocontrol to support the eu in the implementation of the ess and related eu policies. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the implementation of the single european sky (ses) depends on the support of eurocontrol, an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from across europe, including all eu member states. this organisation plays a central role in air traffic management related to safety and environmental issues and has been designated by the european commission as the ses performance review body and air traffic management network manager. the adoption of an agreement setting out the terms and conditions of a framework for enhanced cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol will ensure the technical and operational mastery of eurocontrol in the swift and rigorous implementation of the single european sky legislation. it therefore approved the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − the european organisation for the safety of air navigation, better known as eurocontrol, is an intergovernmental organisation of 39 states plus the european union (of the 27 member states only estonia is not a member). established in 1960, it is a civil and military entity that plays a vital role in air traffic management and since 2011 has been the performance review body of the single european sky initiative. i am in favour of the approval of this agreement, which is intended to strengthen the synergies between the union and eurocontrol, since the implementation of the single european sky will bring enormous benefits to the member states in terms of efficiency, security and the economy.
in writing. − the historical archives of the european institutions are an integral part of the cultural heritage of the european union and a primary source of historical information. i therefore consider it essential that information on the european institutions be preserved, that all european citizens be given access to the historical archives of the union through public consultation and that research on the process of european integration and the values of the union be supported in this way too. the decision to concentrate the historical archives of the institutions at the european university institute (eui) in florence dates from 1984, when the european parliament, the commission and the council signed the first agreement with the eui. the proposal in this report confirms the role of the ieu as the manager of historical archives and creates a legal and financial basis for the partnership between the union and the ieu, which is why i voted in favour. henceforth, with the exception of the european central bank and the court of justice by reason of the nature of their functions, the deposit of the historical archives of the union in the eui by all european institutions shall become mandatory.
in writing. − in a europe that seems to have little memory of its origins and its historical, cultural and spiritual heritage, it is reassuring to know that the european institutions are attentive to the issue of preserving institutional memory and making it accessible to citizens and scholars. i believe that the european university institute should be given the appropriate means to host the historical archives with dignity and that those concerned can access and investigate them with ease and transparency. it is worth the effort to preserve the memory of the institutions as it is recorded in their archives. without it, we would be exponentially more likely to make the same mistakes or to misunderstand its evolution and the present itself. the future history of the european union is in that. i am concerned about the protection of personal data contained in archives and believe that the right to information and the right to privacy should be reconciled when practical solutions for data access and processing are adopted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the recommendation by mrs doris pack on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eec, euratom) no 354/83 as regards the deposit of the historical archives of the european institutions at the european university institute in florence for the following reasons: - recognises the role of the eu historical archives as a source of information on the history of the european union (eu); - allows public access to their archives, in accordance with the current regulation, and supports research on the history of european integration; - recommends that, wherever possible, the european institutions should make their archives accessible to the public by electronic means; - clarifies the standards to be applied to archives with regard to data protection; - gives the european data protection supervisor (edps) powers to supervise the european institutions in accordance with regulation no 45/2001.
in writing. - according to a 1983 regulation, the institutions of the european union will make their historical archives available to the public after 30 years. this is a source of information for the history of the eu, archived at the european university institute in florence. we believe it is important to provide access to these archives and to allow public consultation, preserving information on the eu institutions, in order to support research on the integration process in its many dimensions. historical archives are a very important tool for the study of society and its evolution, analysing its structures and superstructures, the mode of production and the system in force. the council regulation states that wherever possible the institutions make available to the public by electronic means, including digitised and digital root archives, and facilitate their consultation on the internet, which we consider to be positive, and provided that this does not constitute a barrier to access to information, and that due reservations should be taken into account with regard to the protection and processing of personal data contained in the historical archives deposited with the university institute in florence. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions represent an important source of information for the history and heritage of the european union. it is therefore essential to provide access to archives in a way that allows public consultation, preserves information on the eu institutions and supports research into the history of european integration. the proposal does not alter the main elements of regulation (eec, euratom) no 354/83 as regards content, such as the definition of historical archives or the type of documents and the period from which they become public. the proposal provides for minor amendments to the existing regulation, in particular the obligation for all eu institutions (except the court of justice and the european central bank) to deposit their historical archives in the eui, the principle that each institution retains ownership of its archives, the system for financing archives, the protection of personal data contained in archives and the provision of archives by electronic means wherever possible.
in writing. - regulation (eec, euratom) no 354/83 requires the eu institutions to set up historical archives and open them to the public after 30 years. however, the relevant legislation lacked a clear statement as regards the system of funding the archives, the protection of personal data contained in the archives and the making of the archives available electronically. the aim of this proposal for a council regulation is to amend the regulation while preserving the main elements in terms of ensuring a more solid legal and financial basis for cooperation between the eu and the european university institute (eui) in florence (depository of the historical archives since 1984). given the historical and heritage value of the archives of the eu institutions and the preponderance of fair funding and legislation for the proper functioning of the archives, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions represent an important source of information for the history and heritage of the european union. it is therefore essential to provide access to archives in a way that allows public consultation, preserves information on the eu institutions and supports research into the history of european integration. the proposed amendment provides for minor amendments to the existing regulation, in particular the obligation for all eu institutions (except the court of justice and the european central bank) to deposit their historical archives in the eui, the principle that each institution retains ownership of its archives, the system for funding archives, the protection of personal data contained in archives and the provision of archives by electronic means wherever possible. i would like to stress the importance of good interinstitutional cooperation in this area and declare that i voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. the historical archives of the institutions of the european union were created as a requirement of a 1983 regulation which also required their making available to the public after 30 years. this is a source of historical information, archived at the european university institute in florence, which is important to provide access to and allow public consultation as well as to preserve information on the eu institutions, support research on the history of european capitalist integration and its consequences for societies. the historical archives, if they are made in a complete and impartial way, can be a very valuable tool for the study of society and its evolution, in particular the study and observation of reality, analysing its structures and superstructures around the mode of production and the existing system. it is, after all, the driving force behind the evolution of society, developed by marx and engels and known as the materialist conception of history, or historical materialism. the council regulation states that wherever possible the institutions make the public's files available by electronic means, including digitized and digital archives, and facilitate their consultation on the internet, which we think is a positive step, provided that this does not constitute a barrier to access to information. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this report because it is intended to give the member states as much time as possible to take the necessary measures to organise the elections. it is desirable that the decision on the new dates be taken as soon as possible.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. this will give parliament more time to organise itself before the election of the new european commission in july. i would remind you that the european parliament is the only directly elected institution of the union. direct universal suffrage was introduced in the 1979 elections. in portugal, where elections are traditionally held on a sunday, the european elections will be held on 25 may 2014.
in writing. - the period during which elections to the european parliament normally take place and the low turnout have prompted the desire to bring them forward. this decision does not have the support of the european parliament, although the house has previously expressed its support for the development in the direction now voted. i, for my part, agree with it, but i am sure that it will not be enough to bring the people closer to european policy. the recent elections in croatia are a disturbing proof of this divorce, which must be brought to an end. much more needs to be done in this respect and all the european institutions, as well as national governments and parliaments, have an irreplaceable role to play in making this happen.
in writing. - the report by mr carlo casini deals with the period leading up to the eighth election of the representatives of the european parliament (ep) by direct universal suffrage. given that the president of the european commission for the five-year period 2015 to 2019 will be the first to be elected by meps and not a choice of the european council ratified by the ep, it is in the best interests of the elections to be brought forward to may. as the new ep needs sufficient time to organise itself before the election of the president of the commission and the college of commissioners, on 22 november 2012 we adopted a resolution to hold the elections at one of the following dates: 15-18 or 22-25 may 2014. considering that the first period referred to corresponds to an extended weekend because it coincides with the liturgical feast of pentecost, i voted in favour of the council's proposal that the electoral period be fixed as follows: from thursday 22 to sunday 25 may 2014.
in writing. - what concerns us in this process is not the date of the suffrage, but above all the enormous mystification that is being prepared, with the intolerable manipulation of its political meaning. the dominant political forces in the eu want to divert attention from the central issue of these elections, from their real significance, by adding to it the suffrage character of the candidate of each european party for the presidency of the european commission. and so to divert attention from the concrete situation of each country and each people, from the necessary clarification of the proposals and alternatives of each party, on the pretext of promoting what they call a real debate at eu level. they hide the fact that this is a process of selecting, in each country, the parties, their programmes and their candidates. let them be a so-called european debate, detached from the concrete situation in each country and from the identification of those responsible for the present state of affairs. they impose a debate between supposed european parties, in what will also be a supposed suffrage of these same parties. they are thus trying to give a formal democratic appearance to a profoundly undemocratic process, as is shown by the drawing up, adoption and ratification of the treaties, including the most recent budgetary treaty.
in writing. − the next european elections will be held between 22 and 25 may 2014. they should be marked as soon as possible so that member states have sufficient time to prepare them properly.
in writing. - according to the second subparagraph of article 11 (2) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, the council, acting unanimously and after consulting the parliament, may determine another electoral period, preferable to earlier dates, always taking the first european elections (held from thursday 9 to sunday 12 june 1979) as a historical reference. i therefore voted in favour of moving the next european elections in 2014 from 5-8 june to 22-25 may, taking into account the request submitted by parliament to the council.
in writing. − every five years, citizens elect their representatives to the european parliament, the only directly elected institution of the european union. parliament has been elected by direct universal suffrage since 1979. before that date, meps were appointed by the parliaments of each member state. i have approved this report which sets the election period from 22 to 25 may 2014 instead of 5 to 8 june, thus allowing parliament more time to prepare for the election of the new president of the european commission, which is due to be elected in july 2014. it is important to note that the eu council of ministers will still have to unanimously approve the early election period, which is expected to take place in june.
in writing. − following two interviews published in the italian newspaper il sole 24 ore of 26 october 2011 and in corriere della sera of 19 february 2012, mep gabriele albertini was summoned by alfredo robledo to appear before the court of milan, italy. the report by mr rapkay concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr albertini, who was accused by a judge of the milan court of justice of having said that the statements made in the abovementioned interviews in connection with the 'derivatives trial' had damaged his 'personal and professional reputation' and 'his honour and status'. in this regard, and taking into account the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs that, following the hearing held on 17 december 2012, the member was not acting within the scope of his duties as an mep when he granted the interviews, i voted in favour of this report recommending the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr gabriele albertini.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. gabriele albertini's request relates to a summons against him lodged before the court of milan on behalf of alfredo robledo, relating to statements made by gabriele albertini in a first interview published by the italian newspaper il sole 24 ore on 26 october 2011 and in a second interview published by the italian newspaper corriere della sera on 19 february 2012. the statements made in both interviews concern the 'judgment of the derivatives' concerning the investigation of facts dating back to 2005, which involve the municipality of milan and are related to the functions exercised by gabriele albertini as mayor of that city. that is why i voted in favour of not defending the immunity of gabriele albertini.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that mr gabriele albertini, member of the european parliament, has requested the defence of his parliamentary immunity in the context of proceedings before an italian court and that this request relates to a summons against him before the court of milan in respect of an event which occurred when he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the document which decides not to defend the privileges and immunities of the member of the european parliament.
in writing. − articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the eu state that 'members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, arrest or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties' and that 'immunity may not be invoked in the case of flagrant misconduct and may not also constitute an obstacle to the right of the european parliament to waive the immunity of one of its members'. this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the greek mep spyros danellis, following a request made by the assistant prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic, because of 'possible legal actions relating to an alleged breach of duty'. according to the indictment, spyros danellis, as the mayor of heronissos in the heraklion municipality, failed to take the necessary measures to close an establishment operating in his municipality, as requested by the health authorities. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 respectively.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in this case, spyros danellis is accused of breach of duty, since it is alleged that he failed, as mayor of hersonissos in the heraklion city hall, to take measures to close an establishment operating in his municipality, despite the existence of a decision of the health authorities requiring such measures to be taken. the actions relied on do not constitute opinions or votes cast in the exercise of the functions of members of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. it is clear that the accusation has no relation to spyros danellis' position as a member of the european parliament, but to his former position as mayor of hersonissos. i'm in favor of lifting the immunity of spyros danellis.
in writing. - having regard to the request by the assistant prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, spyros danellis, in connection with a possible legal action concerning an alleged offence, and to the fact that the accusation clearly has no relation to spyros danellis's position as a member of the european parliament but to his former position as mayor of hersonissos, i voted in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. − this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr spyros danellis, as communicated by the president of the ep on 6 february 2013 informing about the receipt of a letter from the greek authorities on this matter. mr spyros danellis is accused of having denounced a third party for the commission of an illegal act which he had not committed, with the aim of bringing him to trial, and of having made false statements about a third party which could have damaged the good name and reputation of that individual. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of the greek mep spyros danellis so that he can be tried for alleged false statements and accusations related to the sale of olive fruits and other trees uprooted from land expropriated by a contractor carrying out public works in the municipality of hersonissos.' the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and the draft budget for the financial year 2000 respectively.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. in this case, spyros danellis is charged with falsely accusing a third party of an illegal act, with the intention of being prosecuted for such conduct, and making false statements about a third party, statements that could damage the reputation and good name of that third party, knowing that the statements in question were false. the actions relied on do not constitute opinions or votes cast in the exercise of the functions of members of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. it is clear that the accusation has no relation to spyros danellis' position as a member of the european parliament, but to his former position as mayor of hersonissos. i'm in favor of lifting the immunity of spyros danellis.
in writing. − considering that the assistant prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has requested the waiver of the immunity of a member of the european parliament, spyros danellis, in connection with a possible legal action relating to an alleged offence in which spyros danellis is accused of having falsely accused a third party of an illegal act, and that it is clear that the accusation has no connection whatsoever with the position of spyros danellis as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. - i agree with and support this report because it points out that workers' rights must be upheld throughout the procurement process, considering that the directive should be aligned with eu legislation that guarantees workers' rights.
in writing. − the directive on takeover bids, adopted in 2004, had a transposition deadline of may 2006. although this transposition was carried out by the member states, the fact is that the implementation of the directive coincided with the outbreak of the financial and sovereign debt crisis in europe, which led to a cooling of the merger and acquisition market. these operations often require sophisticated financing, and with the difficulty of accessing credit, the market does not work as easily. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. thus, it can be seen that between 2009 and 2010, the intra-european merger and acquisition market was virtually paralysed and is recovering very slowly. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that such market conditions do not allow a proper assessment of the application of the directive, and that 'more relevant data are needed not only to determine the need for amendments to the directive but also to define precisely the concrete measures to be taken in the future in the field of harmonisation'.
in writing. − in april 2004, the directive 2004/25/ec on public procurement in europe was published in the official journal of the european union (eu) with the aim of creating harmonised rules between all member states (em). the report by klaus-heiner lehne analyses the implementation of this directive, the provisions of which member states were obliged to transpose into national legislation by may 2006. the rapporteur considers that the onset of the economic and financial crisis in 2007 has added to the problems of implementing the rules laid down in the directive as 'the intra-european market for company controls has been virtually paralysed and is recovering very slowly'. the example of the uk market is given where takeover bids fell by 50% between 2010 and 2011. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that more relevant data is needed in this area in order to assess the need to amend directive 2004/25/ec and what concrete measures should be taken in the field of harmonisation.
in writing. − the directive provides that member states should take measures to protect holders of securities, and in particular holders of minority interests, following a change of control of companies. however, as the report states, the mandatory bid rule is the main provision for the protection of minority shareholders. according to an external study, all member states provide for exceptions to this rule. on the basis of this study, it is recognised that these derogations are often used to protect the interests of majority shareholders. however, no effort is being made to protect minority shareholders, in particular by typifying and reducing the number of situations in which this rule can be derogated from by the member states. as regards workers for whom the announcement of one of these transactions constitutes a threat to their jobs or the first sign of the deterioration of the conditions under which they carry out their activity, the directive merely states that adequate information should also be provided to the company's workers' representatives. it's not enough. the rapporteur has not incorporated the suggestions of the committee on employment and social affairs that workers' rights should be maintained throughout the whole procurement process. for these reasons, we cannot vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − after decades of failed attempts, the directive was finally adopted by the european parliament at second reading at the end of 2003 and published in the official journal in april 2004. member states had until may 2006 to transpose the provisions of the directive into their national legislation. the fact that member states have transposed the provisions of the directive shows the clear need, both in the past and today, for harmonised rules on public procurement in europe. however, it has been difficult to assess the implementation of the directive adequately in the face of the crisis we have been going through. it will therefore be necessary to wait to assess the need for amendments to the current directive.
in writing. − with a view to increasing the transparency of the capital market and strengthening the rights of the target company and its stakeholders, parliament adopted in 2003 a directive on takeover bids, the provisions of which could be transposed into national legislation by may 2006. the directive coordinates the rules on takeover bids, ensuring transparency and legal certainty in takeover bids while protecting the interests of shareholders, employees and other stakeholders. however, economic and financial developments, in the context of a widespread and widespread crisis, have had dramatic consequences for the financing of such acquisitions, constraining or even paralysing merger and acquisition activities. the rapporteur's analysis is that, in view of the financial and economic developments of recent years, it is difficult, if not impossible, to make an appropriate assessment of the application of the directive, as more relevant data are needed to determine the need to review or amend existing legislation. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. − the public procurement directive, adopted in 2004, had a difficult and time-consuming negotiation process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities, including the provision of services, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to the public authorities. for these reasons, i support the rapporteur's call for a more detailed study to be carried out to see if there is a need for further amendments and measures.
in writing. − the directive expressly states that member states should take measures to protect holders of securities and in particular holders of minority interests following a change of control of companies. however, the report says that the mandatory bid rule is the main provision for the protection of minority shareholders and notes the results of the external study that all member states provide for derogations from this rule; considers that these derogations are often used to protect the interests of majority shareholders. however, no effort is being made to defend minority shareholders by typifying and reducing the number of situations in which this rule can be derogated from by member states. as regards workers for whom the announcement of one of these transactions constitutes a threat to their jobs or the first sign of the deterioration of the conditions under which they carry out their activity, the directive merely states that adequate information should also be provided to the company's workers' representatives. the rapporteur has not incorporated the suggestions of the committee on employment and social affairs that workers' rights should be maintained throughout the whole procurement process. for these reasons, we could not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union (eu) industrial sector has been a driver of job creation, growth and innovation in all eu regions and is an added value internationally. although the eu's industrial sector has declined over the last 50 years, european industry still accounts for around 16% of eu gdp, so strengthening the industrial base of the european economy is essential to making progress in economic growth and job creation, as well as achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, the european commission (ec) should assess the current situation in formerly industrialised regions, identify the main challenges and provide information and guidance to these regions to develop regional development strategies. in order to support the transformation of former industrialised regions into modern industrial regions, the ec should develop the instruments and policy concepts that combine the cohesion fund and the structural funds. support for the development of young entrepreneurship through access to european funds and business advice should also be strengthened. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - for decades, european industry has been in decline. europe has forgotten its industry, and now we are paying the price. the report by mr geier calls for the resources to be used for support and training for the unemployed, the revitalisation of derelict industrial areas and investment in innovative, sustainable and competitive industries. the cultural and creative industries must play their part in these conversion strategies. the digital economy, premium crafts, film production, for example, are all activities that allow the recovery of a site and restore the attractiveness of a territory.
in writing. − while europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, we cannot forget the preponderant role of industry, which still accounts for 16% of european gdp, and the challenges it faces in a globalised world, where emerging economies are betting on aggressive industrial policies based on massive investments in r & d, competing with europe with the advantage of not having the same environmental, social and labour conditions. the europe 2020 strategy and its ambitious targets need strong support from cohesion policy to make the objectives come off the paper. it is essential to pursue a policy of reindustrialisation, using the cohesion fund funds not only for the sustainable rehabilitation of formerly industrialised regions but also for the conversion and industrialisation of areas hit hard by the crisis and with high unemployment rates.
in writing. - today, despite the great difficulties facing the european union, the industrial sector remains very important for its gross domestic product (gdp). however, if it is not to become obsolete and can contribute to the revival of the economy through economic growth and job creation, it is essential that it focuses on innovation and the use of new technologies. we know that there are problems in the industrial sector, both in terms of information and in terms of financing. i therefore advocate the existence of a medium- and long-term regional development strategy to help revitalize the industrial areas that have ceased to be so. the eu has a key role to play in supporting the revitalization of industrial regions by channelling available resources to this sector and promoting the emergence of new enterprises. because i believe that european industry represents one of the eu's brands in the world and that it should work to increase its share in the growth of european gdp, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague, mr jens geier, on regional strategies for industrial areas in the eu.
in writing. − we support the general idea of increasing the weight of industry in gdp, starting from regions where there has been industrial decline. but there are several aspects of this report from which we have distanced ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also distance ourselves from a certain rhetoric that refers to a supposed dematerialization of the economy, which makes the so-called creative industries, the market and public-private partnerships indebted. portugal has several industrial declines explicitly mentioned in the report, such as steel and textiles. but this decline has very concrete causes (which the report ignores), ranging from common policies to the single market. and it will be hard to reverse it on the basis of the persistence of these constraints. the regions affected by deindustrialisation clearly lack strategies for endogenous development that promote the sustainable use of their resources and the strengthening of their productive sectors. strategies whose implementation can and should be supported by the eu budget. the report advances positive measures which should be supported by cohesion policy. but it omits that the commission was never given sufficient financial resources to achieve its objectives. this situation will be aggravated by the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. - although the eu's industrial sector has been declining over the last 50 years, european industry still accounts for around 16% of eu gdp. however, due to the decline of many traditional industries such as coal, steel, textiles and machinery, which have contributed to the prosperity of many regions over the decades, some regions of the european union are facing similar problems today. many regions of the european union are therefore dependent on european funds to reconvert and restructure their former industrial areas. the financing of the union's cohesion policy intervenes where the private sectors do not and aims to influence the development of industrial and economic, social and territorial policy, in particular by improving the determinants of location and investment. it also supports the modernisation of industrial structures through the transfer of technology and the development of new industries for the future. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − industry is the main asset of the european union's international competitiveness. however, the sector has experienced a major decline, particularly in the areas of traditional industries, whose obsolescence has left the former industrial zones with social, economic and territorial constraints. article 173 tfeu, which encompasses the eu's industrial policy, states that 'the union and the member states shall ensure that the conditions necessary for the development of the competitiveness of the union industry are met'. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is designed to ensure that the european medicines agency is able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. i believe that european public funding is essential for the sustainable rehabilitation of formerly industrialised regions, whose territorial advantages, industrial heritage, experience and capacity hold enormous potential for growth and employment in europe, and i therefore voted in favour of the own-initiative report.
in writing. - article 162 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union addresses the objectives of the european social fund and refers, inter alia, to the objective of facilitating adaptation to industrial change and the evolution of production systems. i support this report because i believe that the structural funds of cohesion policy should be used to support formerly industrialised regions so that they can effectively find new ways of developing and make better use of unoccupied land. i would also like to stress that industrial zones must focus on the coexistence of productive functions, based on the knowledge society, and place greater emphasis on research, innovation and learning activities, with residential, leisure and commercial functions, assuming themselves as new integrated areas of territorial development. i also believe it is essential that innovation, competitiveness and entrepreneurship networks be set up at regional level to encourage a growing link between companies, universities, technology centres, business and idea incubators and researchers, thus boosting new industrial activities that create wealth and jobs at regional level.
in writing. - i think we are now in the presence of a proposal for a future regulation which enjoys a high degree of consensus in parliament. clearly, what we have heard and despite the limitations that each committee or political group may have encountered, in the end we have a highly consensual position of parliament. i believe that this time too the convergence with the commission proposal, as we have seen on many other occasions, but here i want to emphasize that it has been particularly high. the result, as the commissioner has already said, is that europe is at the forefront, and very advanced in terms of protection and in terms of ensuring the requirements they have to meet, they have to meet all the activities of exploration and exploitation of offshore platforms, both in relation to oil and gas. to put limits on the ability to incorporate new areas into new sources would be an unfortunate mistake and what you have to do is to take steps in the direction that has been taken: greater security and greater guarantees. that is clearly the way to go, in my opinion.
in writing. − in the eu, more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas are extracted from offshore operations, most of which take place in the north sea. given the importance of oil extraction to the countries that extract it and the dangers involved (as can be seen from the terrible consequences of accidents), it is essential that the union creates the conditions for the safest possible oil exploitation. to this end, it is important that there is adequate legislation with the basic safety standards for offshore oil and gas production, ensuring the safety of their extraction and supply in the eu. as a portuguese, i cannot help recalling the prestige disaster which deeply affected the galician coast, with consequences that extended beyond the portuguese and french coasts, and i would draw attention to the fact that the measures now proposed should not be confined to oil exploration and extraction but also to its transport and supply, knowing that oil tanker disasters are, unfortunately, more frequent than we would like. it is also important to review safety standards in order to reduce the likelihood of such disasters.
in writing. - environmental protection is on the agenda. it's the quality of life, ours and our grandchildren's, that's at stake. we therefore have an obligation to leave our future generations a planet at least as healthy as we found it. our dependence on fossil fuels - despite the increase in renewable energy - remains enormous and we are exploiting ever deeper deposits. the recent disaster in the gulf of mexico is an example of the lack of safety that exists in many offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, as well as the devastating environmental consequences that these accidents cause. the report by mr belet is on the right track in calling for greater safety on the high seas. it is not just the safety of workers that is at stake but also the protection of the environment. i voted in favour of this report because it contains most of the proposals put forward by the various committees requiring that member states and licensing authorities can only authorise new farms after rigorous environmental impact studies and other aspects that minimise the risks of an accident.
in writing. − a number of accidents related to offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production have drawn attention to the need to guard against the consequences of these activities at various levels. the dramatic example of the deepwater horizon accident in april 2010, which killed 11 workers and triggered an environmental catastrophe, is a demonstration of this. this proposal for a directive states that it lays down minimum requirements for the prevention of major accidents and the limitation of the consequences of major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations. it considers that, as general principles of risk management, member states should require operators to ensure that all appropriate measures are taken to prevent the occurrence of major accidents associated with offshore oil and gas operations and to take responsibility for environmental damage caused. these requirements were, however, weakened during the negotiating process, which merited the opposition of our group. we supported a moratorium on all fossil resource activities in the arctic, as well as in areas considered to be geologically unstable or ecologically sensitive, which was ultimately rejected by the majority. for these reasons, we rejected the final proposal.
in writing. − accidents on offshore oil production platforms are extremely dangerous. an example of this was the april 20, 2010 accident, an explosion on the deepwater horizon that caused the death of 11 people working on the rig and a hydrocarbon spill equivalent to about 4.9 million barrels (780,000 m3) of crude oil. this accident also prompted a review of eu policies: the european commission has immediately launched a safety assessment of offshore oil and gas exploration activities in european waters. it was concluded that additional action was needed to ensure the dissemination of good practice already existing in the regulatory regimes of some eu member states across the eu through an advanced eu-wide framework. that is what we have achieved by adopting this report, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − on 17 september 2011, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation on concrete measures that could address the disparities and general fragmentation between member states' practices and legislation on safety in offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production. the rapporteur, considering the issues that the regulation presented by the commission may raise as regards the repeal and amendments to national legislation on this matter, recommended the change of the legal form 'regulation' to 'directive'. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. only an advanced framework at eu level can ensure the dissemination of good practice in offshore oil and gas exploration. i voted in favour of this in the hope that the regulatory effort on the safety aspects of offshore drilling will prevent tragedies like the one that occurred on the deepwater horizon platform.
in writing. − the 2010 deepwater horizon accident off the coast of the united states and its effects on the marine environment and humans have alerted the union to the need for legislation on the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production. the aim is to disseminate best practice already existing in the member states and to create a european regulatory framework. the proposal also focuses on strengthening preventive measures and the union's capacity to respond to a disaster. the european parliament called for full independence between the body responsible for the safety of operations and the body managing the economic development of activities; the extension of the mandate of the european maritime safety agency; greater legal certainty for licensing laws; and closer cooperation between member states and third countries. the blue economy is a clear commitment of the union, which must be accompanied by preventive measures to cope with possible disasters.
in writing. - among the initiatives proposed in this report, i would stress the importance of investing in scientific research, technological development and demonstration in the field of renewable energy in order to reduce its costs for both producers and consumers. parliament stressed the importance of energy, proposing an increase from 7.5% to 8.4% of the horizon 2020 budget for the societal energy challenge, alongside an ambitious and very comprehensive work programme. i would like to stress the importance of all measures to reduce the costs of renewable energy in order to reconcile the objectives of security of energy supply, combating climate change and the competitiveness of european companies. only then will it be possible to set objectives that are both ambitious and realistic.
in writing. − sustainable growth without undermining competitiveness requires a consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence and clean energy production. in this context, the production of renewable energy is of crucial importance and should be encouraged and exploited consistently. i am proud that my country is a good example in this area (in 2011, in portugal, 24.9% of total energy was renewable while for the same year the eu average was only 13%) and i believe that this should be a model for other european states to follow.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by mr herbert reul, deals with the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the eu's internal energy market. renewable energy sources not only contribute to combating climate change and increasing europe's energy independence, but also bring additional environmental benefits. a binding target for renewable energy sources in 2030 will signal to investors that renewable energy remains a priority. at the same time, a binding target will be a stimulus that can boost job creation, security of supply, green growth and technological and industrial leadership. it is important that countries which are well placed to meet the long-term targets on this matter, notably portugal, have this stimulus to continue on this path. it is essential that eu energy policy is geared towards the development, deployment and distribution of renewable energy with ambitious renewable energy targets for member states by 2030 in order to achieve a renewable energy economy by 2050.
in writing. − this report aims to boost the uptake of renewable energy sources (res) and to contribute to reducing europe's energy dependence on conventional energy sources, while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the european commission is invited to assess the costs and benefits of introducing a binding 2030 erf target. we support ambitious targets in this area. we support reducing dependence on fossil fuels, diversifying sources and increasing their sustainability. but we don't have an idyllic view of this issue. the solution to the energy problems we face is not just a transition to res. the existing models of production and consumption, i.e. the way in which the economy is organised and the energy consumption associated with them, must be questioned. it is important to reduce these consumption by changing these models. it should be borne in mind that even rdfs can have significant environmental impacts. some countries, such as portugal, are already close to some of the proposed targets (which were ultimately rejected during the vote). this does not mean that much remains to be done in the field of rationalising supply and consumption and minimising environmental impacts. public control of the energy sector is an essential factor in achieving these objectives.
in writing. − res, together with energy efficiency measures and flexible and intelligent infrastructure, are the 'no-compromise' options and will in future constitute a growing share of europe's energy supply, in terms of electricity supply, heating (which accounts for almost half of the eu's total energy demand) and cooling, and the transport sector, reducing europe's energy dependence on conventional energy sources. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. renewable energy sources not only contribute to combating climate change and increasing europe's energy independence, but also bring additional environmental benefits in terms of reducing air pollution, waste generation and water use, as well as other risks inherent in other forms of energy production. this is why it is so important to replace fossil fuels with more environmentally friendly sources of energy.
in writing. − the commission communication 'renewable energies: a decisive player in the european energy market' sets out a strategic framework for renewable energy policies in the european union. the communication stresses that renewable energy policies must ensure that such sources can form an integral part of the european energy market with limited but effective support where needed and with transport solutions capable of providing a flexible back-up to the electricity supply in europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, in particular in the transport sector. the european parliament's document calls on the commission to achieve greater convergence in the design of the european support system for renewable energy for the period after 2020. i supported this report, which calls on the commission to evaluate the european support scheme for renewable energy sources (res) with a view to a more cost-effective framework and potential.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the environment, the commission has adopted a communication on the environment and the environment in the european union. seven flagship initiatives were defined, one of them being 'a resource-efficient europe' which aims to have 20% of total energy produced from renewable energy sources. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that europe must improve its energy independence vis-à-vis third countries and diversify its energy sources, and must increasingly rely on environmentally friendly energy sources. although in 2011 portugal already produced 24.9% of its total energy from renewable energy sources, i believe that it is premature to set a binding target of 40 to 45% in europe by 2030.
in writing. − this is an own-initiative report which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in order to help reduce europe's energy dependence on conventional energy sources. these are intentions which seem to us to be correct, although it would be important to set amounts for public and private investment and to promote a general survey and mapping plan for the classification and quantification of renewable energy resources. we are concerned that they are throwing renewable energy into the european internal energy market, which calls into question the sovereignty of the member states in energy policy, since this is a strategic sector for a country's economy and for the definition of its related policies. the energy poverty that is currently being experienced in several eu countries, particularly in the electricity sector, is caused by the increase in energy prices caused by successive privatisations in the sector. in portugal, the privatisation of the sector has resulted in monopolization and successive price increases - for example, in 2012, they rose by 8,9% compared to the previous year - and also in the increase in company profits that exceed all forecasts. renewables, yes, of course, but not to create another multi-billion dollar business that exploits consumers.
in writing. − the seven western balkan applicant countries are at different stages of the process of becoming member states of the european union. although they have adopted much of the necessary legislation, in many cases this legislation is not being effectively implemented, particularly in the field of women's rights and gender equality. support for equal opportunities policies is of great importance, not only in the process of accession to the european union, but above all for the economic and social development of these countries. women in the western balkans should assume a prominent role in society through active participation and representation in political, economic and social life at all levels, including in decision-making. it should be noted that the population is not properly informed about the existing legislation and policies to promote gender equality. awareness should therefore be promoted through the media, public campaigns and education programmes. in these campaigns, particular emphasis should be placed on the fight against stereotypes, discrimination and domestic violence. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − it is extremely important that gender equality policies are implemented in the balkan countries which are in the process of joining the eu. it must be ensured that women are not discriminated against and do not encounter barriers to professional advancement in top positions in both the public and private sectors.
in writing. − croatia, albania, bosnia and herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro, kosovo and serbia are the western balkan countries which, although they are at different stages of the eu accession process and have already started to adopt some or, in some cases, most of the legislation necessary for the accession process, in many cases this legislation is not being effectively implemented. i note with concern that in most of these countries women continue to be underrepresented in the labour market and in decision-making at economic and political levels, and that there are also marked gender gaps in wages and pensions. it is essential that in the accession process of these countries, priority be given to progress in the fight against discrimination, corruption and organised crime, especially given that 30% of the victims of crossborder trafficking in the eu are, in the vast majority, women and girls from the balkan region. it is important to carry out information and awareness-raising campaigns among the local population on existing legislation and policies to promote gender equality in order to combat stereotypes, all forms of discrimination and domestic violence.
in writing. - the conflicts in the balkans have been marked by several serious cases of sexual violence, mainly against women. we still remember with horror the reports that showed the systematic and premeditated use of rape as a weapon of war in that conflict. in all the regions of the continent which are candidates for accession, as in the european union itself, countries are required to pay scrupulous attention to equality between men and women and to ensure that women participate fully in the social, community and political life of their states. this requirement must be constant and their full and effective participation. i regret that, in all its aspects, this worthwhile subject is being used to pressure the acceding states to accept the liberalization of practices such as abortion. the union, in its desired diversity, must reject agendas which are fractured by this.
in writing. − the policy of enlargement of the european union (eu) to the east has contributed not only to the pacification of the balkan region, but also to economic growth and the implementation of democracy in that territory. unfortunately, history shows us that non-democratic regimes are those where the absence of gender equality is most felt. throughout its history, the eu has demanded that all partnership agreements respect the principles and values enshrined in its charter of fundamental rights, so as to oblige the applicant countries to gradually commit themselves to the primacy of freedom and human rights. among the measures recommended is the promotion of greater participation of women in public life. i voted in favour of the report by mrs marije cornelissen on women's rights in the balkan accession countries because, in addition to acknowledging the efforts made by most of these countries in this field, it contains a set of recommendations which will help each country to improve its performance in eradicating violence against women, their integration into the labour market and legal bodies, and their participation in politics and involvement in key sectors of society.
in writing. − in 2008, the european parliament adopted a report on this same subject. now repeat the assessment. as the rapporteurs themselves point out, this evaluation focuses more on the legislative mechanisms and the implementation of certain provisions than on an assessment of the situation of women in these countries. it is worth noting that many of the problems attributed to countries in the process of joining the eu are the same as those experienced by women in eu countries on a daily basis. these are problems that result from the dominant national and european policies. lack of protection for women victims of violence, high female employment rates, lack of access to sexual and reproductive health services, high levels of wage inequality are just a few examples. we disagree with the attempt to impose certain measures and models which tend to disregard the legitimate choices of the peoples of these countries. as for kosovo, its inclusion in the group of countries is unacceptable, since it has not been recognised as an independent country by either the un or several eu member states.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report. i am opposed in principle to the stipulation of quotas for women in any occupation. invariably, the reports that come to us from the femm committee refer to quotas, regardless of the subjects covered in the report. i think that this matter should be dealt with in another way, otherwise i fear we will never be able to reach a satisfactory solution. that is why i abstain.
in writing. − this owninitiative report notes that the balkan candidate countries have already adopted a large part of the relevant legislation. however, gender equality is not fully ensured in practice. the population of most countries ignores existing policies to promote gender equality. this gap between the law and its effective implementation must be bridged by awareness-raising campaigns to combat discrimination and stereotypes, alongside the growing emancipation of women, who, as they remain under-represented in the labour market, are compulsorily excluded from economic and political decision-making. in this respect, this document, which i welcome, calls for the reasonable use of pre-accession aid instruments in projects relating to women's rights and gender equality, in particular in the mechanisms and tools for the effective implementation of laws and policies in this field.
in writing. − measures to guarantee women's rights and gender equality provisions need to be more effective and enforcement mechanisms need to be monitored. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to specifically address the mechanisms for implementing women's rights in the countries applying for accession to the european union, presenting concrete measures rather than just listing the problems relating to women's rights and gender equality in general. finally, i would like to stress that i voted against the assumptions set out in the report which aimed at introducing quotas in the various countries analysed, since this is a discretionary and punitive measure for women, because with work, dedication and their own merit they can achieve important positions of democratic representation.
in writing. - it is clear that equality between men and women is an objective which must be achieved in any society which calls itself democratic. unfortunately, many of the problems which this report intends to imput as unacceptable in a country in the process of joining the eu are the same problems which women in eu countries experience on a daily basis, and which are a consequence of right-wing policies and the result of the eu's guidelines for cutting public funding. lack of protection for women victims of violence, high female employment rates, lack of access to sexual and reproductive health services, high levels of wage inequality are some examples. on the other hand, we do not think it is appropriate for the eu to want to impose political regime models - such as the introduction of the quota system in political parties or in elections to national assemblies - which are the decision of the peoples of the countries concerned alone. finally, it is unacceptable that the list of countries addressed includes kosovo, a us protectorate not recognised as an independent country by the un or by five eu member states.
in writing. - the good functioning of democracies depends to a large extent on freedom of the media. this freedom is not only operationalized through non-interference by governments in the media, but also through protective measures such as against conflict of interest between political officeholders and media control offices.
in writing. − freedom of the media is a cornerstone of the values enshrined in the treaties, namely democracy, pluralism and the rule of law itself, and plays a crucial role in their existence and survival. the fundamental rights of citizens to information and freedom of expression can only be guaranteed through the freedom and pluralism of the media, which allows journalists and the media to exercise their right and duty to inform citizens in a transparent, fair and neutral manner. it is essential to ensure that there is transparent legislation in all member states, which ensures, on the one hand, the credibility and coherence of the european space and, on the other hand, adequate protection of freedom of expression and information and media pluralism, in particular with regard to national rules on media ownership and transparency, concentration, conflicts of interest with political office and economic pressures and the independence of media supervisory authorities. i am concerned that, in the context of the current economic crisis, the number of journalists working in precarious conditions of employment and with poor access to social security has increased alarmingly.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report which proposes the revision of the media services directive, mechanisms to ensure the independence of directors and boards of directors and measures to prevent media concentration. for pluralism, freedom and independence of the media are essential to the healthy functioning of any democracy! i would stress the importance of promoting a dual european audiovisual system in which public and private companies and the professionals who are part of them can carry out their activities, immune to any kind of political, economic or other pressures, guided by the protection of journalistic competition, information and the diversity of opinions, in full freedom of expression. i would also like to stress the important role of independent media regulators at national level in safeguarding media pluralism and independence and ensuring the objectivity, impartiality and accountability of the media in the member states. in this respect, i believe that greater cooperation, sharing of experience and best practice between entities through the european regulatory bodies platform is a positive development.
in writing. - it is fair to acknowledge that the european union enjoys a high degree of freedom of the media. this is unquestionable, especially when compared with other parts of the world. however, such a state of affairs should not distract policy-makers from the need to help maintain and strengthen it. democracy would be short-lived without a free and critical media. i hope that the crisis we are in will be an opportunity to strengthen the role of the media in monitoring policy-makers, particularly those in europe who often seem to be too distant from public opinion. the democratization of european political life will also require a freer and stronger media at this level.
in writing. - the media are a fundamental pillar of the european community and are therefore protected by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (cdfeu), which defends pluralism and freedom of the press. although freedom of the press is a fundamental right, the truth is that sometimes in some member states it is not always recognised as such and many journalists are victims of pressure and harassment by member states. if citizens have a right to be informed, it is necessary that all member states respect the legislation protecting journalists in their physical integrity and freedom of expression. the report, drawn up by mrs renate weber on the general framework for media freedom in the european union, contains 30 recommendations which aim to clarify this matter and call not only for a reflection on the powers of the member states but above all for them to play their role in guaranteeing the existence of a free media. in fact, the hague treaty requires it as a criterion for accession. because freedom of the press is fundamental in a modern society, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report addresses a number of important and topical issues, such as the concentration of media ownership, the precariousness of journalists, economic dependence, political pressure, censorship, manipulation and the lack of pluralism. unfortunately, many of them fall short of what is needed to treat them. we agree with several of the principles set out in this report, such as the defence of collective bargaining. unfortunately, nothing is said about the process under way which, through various channels (the euro plus pact, the budgetary treaty, eu-imf programmes, etc.), is contributing to its destruction. and more could be said about the attack on the working conditions and labour rights of the professionals in the sector. the absence of any reference to control mechanisms and to measures (or proposals for measures) which would even minimally guarantee compliance with the principles stated is also noted. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − freedom of the media is a cornerstone of the values enshrined in the treaties, namely democracy, pluralism and respect for minority rights. freedom of the media, pluralism and the independence of journalism are essential elements for the proper exercise of the media service throughout the union and in particular in the single market, and therefore any restrictions on freedom of the media, pluralism and the independence of journalism constitute restrictions both on freedom of opinion and on economic freedom. journalists should not be subject to pressure from owners, managers and public authorities, nor to financial constraints. the european union must do everything possible to ensure that the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information, and to freedom and pluralism of the media, is respected, guaranteed, protected and promoted. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − according to article 10 of the european convention on human rights, the authorities have positive obligations to protect freedom of expression as one of the prerequisites for a functioning democracy. the effective exercise of certain freedoms does not depend solely on non-interference by the state, often requiring positive protective measures, such as: a legislative framework preventing conflicts of interest resulting from the amalgamation of political office and control over the media; a legal framework preventing concentration of ownership and abuse of a dominant position, as well as infiltration of secret intelligence agents into newsrooms; or legislation protecting journalists from pressure, intimidation and persecution. in summary, the report highlights two aspects of media independence and pluralism: the freedom of the media to provide impartial information and the freedom of citizens to access it. i supported the report calling on the commission to review the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) by assessing the possibility of extending its scope to minimum standards relating to the protection and promotion of the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information.
in writing. − the european parliament calls on the member states and the european union to respect, guarantee, protect and promote the fundamental right to freedom of expression and information, and to freedom and pluralism of the media, and consequently to refrain from any threats to media freedom. stressing the importance of ensuring the independence of the media in the context of the general framework of freedom in the eu, i voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. - we can subscribe to all these pretty, correct and defensible statements of principle, based on the alleged goodness of what is enshrined in the treaties, as if the real problems, also pointed out in the report, had nothing to do with the political orientation that the treaties impose and pursue. it's the usual hypocrisy. just look at what is said about collective bargaining to confirm it. it is not enough to say that it must be respected, nothing about the process of its actual liquidation (and the attempt to liquidate the unions) that is being carried out throughout the eu. it refers to the concentration of the media, the precariousness of journalists, economic dependence, political pressure, censorship, manipulation, lack of pluralism, etc., as if these situations were dissociable from the political and economic project of the eu. nothing is said about copyright, particularly when it comes to making information available on the internet/search engines. ngos are valued, without prejudice to the use which, in many cases, results from their instrumentalisation. and it is trying to refer to european bodies aspects of the regulation of media - as when it is proposed to harmonize the statute of national regulatory authorities - which are and should remain the responsibility of each country.
mr president, the proposal we have adopted today on the sustainability of pensions has several fundamental problems: the first concerns raising the retirement age so that contributions can be extended, as if unemployment were not the main problem in the european union; the second concerns raising contributions for those who work by reducing employers' contributions. to include the private sector as a guarantee of sustainability for reforms and pensions is to bring social security schemes into the casino economy once and for all. in the face of a voracious financial market that knows no bounds, people are being urged to retire and retire and to buy financial products so that they can have a decent life after a working life. to transform public systems of reform in this way is to transform them into pensions for the poor. contrary to what most of you have argued, dignity at the end of a contributory life can only be guaranteed by universal public systems which do not cut the chain of solidarity between generations and not by the model that has been adopted here, which is unacceptable from all points of view.
in writing. − the ageing population is putting at risk the financial sustainability of the pension system in all member states. it is therefore urgent to reshape pension systems in the light of economic and demographic developments in europe. i agree with the need to link retirement age with increased life expectancy, and to improve access to lifelong learning, reconciliation of work, family and private life and the promotion of active ageing. i also support the development of supplementary retirement savings to improve the income of pensioners. it is important to stress that gender disparities in employment, wages, career breaks and parttime work have a negative impact on women's pensions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of women and men in the eu, and has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of life of women and men in the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the ageing of the population represents a major challenge for pension schemes in the member states. it is a problem with profound economic and budgetary consequences in the eu, which requires immediate responses, especially given that the baby boom generation is now reaching retirement age and the working population in europe will decrease every year over the next few decades. the weak economic growth, budget deficits and debt levels, as well as financial instability and low employment have further aggravated the situation and it is urgent to develop and implement comprehensive strategies to adapt pension systems to changing economic and demographic circumstances, setting out a clear agenda to make pensions adequate and sustainable in the long term. we cannot jeopardize the right to a dignified retirement for people who have worked all their lives. but europe's social and economic success is also dependent on the success of national pension policies and reforms, as it will decisively affect the eu's ability to achieve two of the five europe 2020 targets, namely to raise the employment rate to 75% and reduce the number of people at risk of poverty by at least 20 million.
in writing. − the increase in average life expectancy, combined with the reversal of the age pyramid in the eu and the global crisis in which european economies are immersed, pose major challenges to an ageing society which will have to ensure that its elderly people have adequate living conditions and a role which, in many cases, can (and should) be active. faced with the real threat of the bankruptcy of traditional pension systems, states must take the necessary measures - not just raising the retirement age - to safeguard social security schemes in a frontal and courageous manner. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the pension system. in addition, the aim should be to make the retirement age dependent on the average life expectancy.
in writing. − all citizens want to receive a secure and sustainable retirement pension that will enable them to live out their final years with quality. that is the purpose of their work and of their discounts. if for many years this was an acquired reality, with the reversal of the age pyramid and the economic and financial crisis that has befallen us, the acquired rights have ceased to be so and the pensioners and pensioners have seen their incomes drastically reduced. i believe that intergenerational relations must remain the basis (pillar 1) of reforms in the future. however, the inevitability of the reversal of the age pyramid requires us to equalise the increase in the retirement age - as is already the case in some member states - and to encourage the use of supplementary retirement savings schemes, so as to enable all pensioners to live out their final years with dignity. i voted in favour of the report by mrs ria oomen-ruijten because i agree that there is a need for greater awareness of the problems of the financial sustainability of social security systems so that we can all have an old age with a minimum quality of life.
in writing. - if the guidelines advocated in this report (approved by the psd, ps and cds) were to be implemented, it would deal a brutal blow to the public, solidarity-based and universal social security system. the objectives are clear: to raise the retirement age, to reduce employer contributions to public social security systems by decapitalizing them, and to support the business of retirement savings plans sold by banks and from which they make millions. all under the ever-invoked and cheated pretext of sustainability. they cite the increase in average life expectancy (and the resulting burden on social security systems), but they forget that labour productivity has also increased significantly, and it is now possible to produce much more wealth with the same work. they want to take away a growing share of the wealth from those who generate it, also by stealing the right to social security. how can they forget the effects that the policies in place, as well as the unprecedented levels of unemployment they create, have on the sustainability of the system. the intention is to transform public, universal and solidarity-based pension systems into private systems, to which only those with the financial capacity to buy certain financial products will have access. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. - pensions are being squeezed in all eu countries. euro area governments are implementing austerity measures to comply with the stability and growth pact (sgp) by balancing revenue and expenditure, or are being forced to make drastic cuts in an attempt to reduce high deficits. in addition, the population is ageing in all member states. in general, while recognising and preserving the responsibilities of the member states and the social partners, we must now create appropriate, safe and lasting systems which also contribute to greater market mobility and freedom of movement, systems which offer solutions for the present and the future. it is important that people are informed about the pensions they expect to receive. providing people with information about their pension income leads to better understanding, more careful design of preventive measures and greater accountability. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the sustainability of public-pillar pensions, i.e. government-funded through the pension sharing system based on solidarity between taxpayers, is threatened by the mutually influential development of demographic and economic indices in europe. the rapporteur notes that fertility rates remain low and average life expectancy has increased, but that there is one inescapable fact: at present, there are four active people for every pensioner, and in 2060 there will be only two active people for every pensioner. the commission therefore foresees that more people will have to work harder and longer. weighing in on the clarity of statistical forecasts, which point not only to a progressive decline in average labour force participation but also to a scenario of low economic growth, the legislative agenda must take political responsibility for a future with adequate, secure and sustainable pensions. i therefore voted in favour of the own-initiative report, which calls on the european commission to strengthen eu legislative coordination in the field of pensions.
in writing. - the proposal we have adopted today on the sustainability of pensions has several fundamental problems: the first concerns raising the retirement age so that contributions can be extended, as if unemployment were not the main problem in the european union; the second concerns raising contributions for those who work by reducing employers' contributions. to include the private sector as a guarantee of sustainability for reforms and pensions is to bring social security schemes into the casino economy once and for all. in the face of a voracious financial market that knows no bounds, people are being urged to retire and retire and to buy financial products so that they can have a decent life after a working life. to transform public systems of reform in this way is to transform them into pensions for the poor. contrary to what most of you have argued, dignity at the end of a contributory life can only be guaranteed by universal public systems which do not cut the chain of solidarity between generations and not by the model that has been adopted here, which is unacceptable from all points of view.
in writing. − several pension systems in several member states are experiencing serious difficulties in financial sustainability due to the fact that discounts are becoming lower and capital needs are increasing. in order to make social security more sustainable, i am in favour of creating pension plans that combine public investment with collective and individual retirement savings plans. i would also stress the importance of maintaining the public system which guarantees a decent quality of life for retired workers.
in writing. − the report on an agenda for adequate, secure and sustainable pensions, which follows the european commission's white paper, focuses on two areas of eu intervention on pension issues: the european semester (implementation of country-specific recommendations on pension reform) and the strengthening of the internal pension market (third pillar). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens and to the use of carcinogens in the manufacture of foodstuffs. the real objectives of this report are clear: (1) to raise the retirement age, robbing every man and woman, at the end of a life of work and sacrifice, of a precious chunk of time that would still allow them to live as fully as possible; (2) to reduce employer contributions to public social security systems and to support the business of the retirement savings plans sold by banks, from which they make millions. it is a question of transforming public, universal and solidarity-based pension systems into private systems, to which only those with the financial capacity to buy financial products have access. surely this is not the way to make the pension system more sustainable!
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the draft law. - madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, i would like to begin by saying that we naturally welcome the steps taken by the european parliament and the european union in the field of banking supervision, and there are three points which i consider to be fundamental and which we in the committee on constitutional affairs have tried to define, particularly with regard to the question of the european banking authority, but also with regard to the european central bank. the first of these, which i consider to be constitutionally and institutionally fundamental, was to ensure that banking supervision was left to the european central bank. it is the only way to give the european central bank its true status, the status of a genuine central bank in its own right. the second point was to try to include, to open the door to countries outside the euro zone and this has been possible through the supervisory committee which will operate in the european central bank and in a way which we believe can be improved but which is already highly satisfactory for these countries at this time. the third point, which was fundamental for us, was to ensure, in the context of the european banking authority, some fairness between the countries that are within the euro area, the countries that are in the supervisory mechanism and the countries that are outside the euro area and those that are outside the single supervisory mechanism, precisely by ensuring that the supervisory rules themselves are defined by this european banking authority and can be the same for both national and european supervisors. these were very important steps which the committee on constitutional affairs clearly wanted to outline. another very important step is transparency, accountability to the european parliament of the monitoring mechanisms, which was also another very important achievement of the committee on constitutional affairs. i would like to say, however, that we urgently need to move forward with the banking union, and here we are with commissioner barnier, the sooner we have the banking union, the stronger the euro zone will become, the stronger the internal market will become, because it is now protected against fragmentation, and that is why we demand, as members of the committee on constitutional affairs, that the banking union be achieved as soon as possible, it is essential to move forward with this, to move forward safely but to move forward quickly.
madam president, i would like to return to the question of the european central bank's supervisory role. this allocation seems to us to be wrong for two main reasons: firstly, the concentration of powers of prudential supervision and monetary policy is contrary to good practice in the regulation of the financial system; secondly, this concentration of powers gives the european central bank a framework of statutory powers unparalleled anywhere in the world. if we add to monetary policy and supervision the powers which the ecb has been exercising beyond its statutes, such as the powers which the ecb exercises in the framework of the troika programmes, for example, we are indeed dealing with a superbank with superpowers. this proposal is particularly worrying because the ecb remains an institution with very little transparency and little or no democratic control. mr victor constantio has even said that these matters do not concern us members, which is unacceptable. finally, it is said that all this will work because the ecb will isolate monetary policy functions from supervisory functions. this is naive to say the least. you don't expect to be in a football game, for example, appointing the referee to coach one of the teams, much less reasonable when we are talking about the decisions that affect our lives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not adversely affected by the decisions of the court of justice.
madam president, commissioner, thank you very much again for the work you have been doing. the european parliament has just approved, by a large majority, its position on the recovery and resolution of banking in the european union, and it has done so in the econ committee and will immediately begin the discussion with the council. the following are among the positions adopted by parliament: shareholders and other creditors will indeed suffer losses in the event of bankruptcy, not taxpayers. the range of assets involved is broad and the loss hierarchy is very clear. the banks will feed into national resolution funds, deposits up to €100,000 will be guaranteed and the rest will be given preference, that is, they will be the last category to suffer losses and only for reasons of financial stability. these are some of the elements which we consider to contribute to the construction of the banking union, but we run two types of risks and it was to these that i would like to warn you: it would be very serious if, in the same union, with the same supervision, the same rules for banks, in some countries they were to bail in, with losses for shareholders and creditors, and in others, the stronger countries, they were to keep bail out, that is, the involvement of taxpayers. secondly, the main source of confidence for citizens is the guarantee of their deposits, even above eur 100 000. this is what america understood right after the great depression. it is unacceptable that in a banking union the savings and funds of small businesses above eur 100 000 are at risk if they are deposited in a bank in a weaker country and are completely safe if the bank is from a stronger country. in short, commissioner, single supervision is essential and we are moving in the right direction, but without a single resolution mechanism and without common deposit guarantee and resolution funds, if not possible, which was the ideal, but at least managed in a coordinated way, we can generate unbearable risks not only for the banking union but also for the european union. i therefore urge the commission to move as quickly as possible with the missing pieces of the banking union, to force the council to accept moving with the remaining pieces, because if this delay continues, we may be able to bring down what we have built up in the meantime, so good work and keep it up, commissioner.
mr president, the banking union has essentially some more or less explicit objectives. the most explicit is, of course, to preserve the unity and integrity of the single market in financial services, a space which by definition develops and reproduces inequalities between countries, but also the objective of saving the euro, thus saving all the con ditionalism and blackmail imposed on the peoples with the consequences that we are now so well aware of. the second objective is undoubtedly to strengthen the role of the ecb, thus strengthening this instrument of domination and financial speculation by removing the regulatory sector from the reach of the states which are subject to public and democratic control and scrutiny. the third major objective is to promote financial monopolies by concentrating deposits, saving some banks and wiping out others, as the situation in cyprus so well and sadly illustrates, because among capitalists in times of crisis, there are also those who win and those who have to lose. all this has nothing to do with the interests of the poor and the working people.
i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, marianne and sven, for their work, and i would also like to give a word of encouragement to commissioner barnier for the concern he has shown for this difficult task of building the banking union. let me be very clear: i think it is a good thing that there is a european solution, a single european supervisor for banking, but that is only one aspect of our question. we must also move towards a common solution to the question of bank resolution and deposit guarantee. only then will we be able to separate sovereign debts from bank debts, to separate sovereigns from banks, which is our aim. in this connection, yesterday parliament had the opportunity to approve its text on the subject of bank resolution, in which taxpayers can no longer be held responsible for problems in banks. this is a positive step, but it is also necessary to give confidence to depositors, a confidence which is very much weakened by the cyprus issue, which we know is a one-off. but i would like to know whether it would not be relevant to move towards a resolution fund for banks which are not national, which are european or at least managed at european level and, on the other hand, for deposits above eur 100 000, whether exceptions cannot be made for companies which have to pay salaries or for many social solidarity institutions. i would like to leave a final word to the commissioner and mrs creighton so that they can convince their planners that the real solution is a european solution, and that is what we need. we need, as for the welfare states, welfare for the banks and then we can have a solution that will please everyone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the two other rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done on this report. the reality is harsh: in europe, there are about 30 million people who report being victims of crime every year, but we know that there are many victims who prefer not to be involved, many women and many children are among these millions of victims. when victims are not supported, they are doubly victims of the crime they have been subjected to and of a system that is unable to protect them. the difficulties faced by victims are further aggravated if the crime takes place outside the country of residence or if the victim wants to travel or move to another member state. the regulation we are discussing today is an important step towards building the european area of freedom, security and justice and, above all, towards protecting victims of crime in the union, in particular women who are victims of domestic violence and trafficking in human beings. all victims who are granted protection in a member state can continue to receive the same protection if they decide to reside or remain in another eu country. i therefore welcome the new rules and their entry into force from 2015. i also welcome the issuing of uniform european certificates available in all the languages of the union, which will allow for the recognition and rapid application of protection measures. i would like to conclude by stressing the importance of cooperation between member states so that the rights of citizens who are victims of crime, whether men, women or children, are a reality and that, despite their neglect, they feel supported and protected.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your explanation, but i am sorry that it was not detailed enough. we are in a period where the meaning of words needs to be clarified. ex ante coordination and structural reforms are currently interpreted very broadly and deviate from the usual meaning of these words. structural reforms have become, in the european dialogue, the imposition by the commission of recessive policies of wage suppression, determined externally and which have not always, or almost never, i would say, achieved the objectives they set themselves. i think it is important that we regain mutual trust and reintroduce the community method, dialogue, convergence and cohesion, while at the same time talking about competitiveness. the instrument currently being envisaged to support convergence and competitiveness can be extraordinarily positive, provided that it represents this new mutual trust in terms of what is the european tradition. it is important that competitiveness is respected and recognised as a broader concept that must be taken into account in strategy 2020 and not in a crushing of wages and the basic conditions of the labour market. we must realise that there are cross-cutting impacts from one country to another which limit the room for manoeuvre of countries, in particular those in the euro area, that there are national objectives and social practices of concertation which must be respected, as well as social objectives which cannot be exceeded. these and other needs... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to begin by congratulating you, commissioner, on the long road that has been set out, also with the european parliament, towards the completion of economic and monetary union. it has been possible to revise the stability and growth pact, to establish legislation on macroeconomic imbalances within the european union and to improve the budgetary rules, but increasingly what we are being asked for, and have been asking for a long time, is that it is possible to have budgetary discipline and growth in the european union. this is not a task that can be done overnight, but it is increasingly urgently required by our citizens, and a european solution is needed to this end. and that is why i congratulate the commission on its communication, and we hope that we can have legislative initiatives on these very important matters as soon as possible, such as the need to coordinate structural reforms for the growth of our economy or to have an instrument for convergence and competitiveness. i wonder, commissioner, whether these measures can be seen as part of the idea that within the european union and within economic and monetary union, sanctions can be linked to the necessary incentive for states, incentive for those who comply. i come from a country, portugal, which has been doing exactly what is required, but it is also necessary that these same countries can be encouraged and rewarded for their compliance and rewarded in a way that citizens can understand that the sacrifices they are making are worthwhile. it is necessary that these incentives are not just case by case, as has been emerging, but can be systematically included within our legislation. i hope so, and that is the word i wanted to bring to the house today.
mr president, mr commissioner, economic and monetary union was and is a project of european capital. between 2001 and 2010, the euro area grew by an average of 36% in profits, with a cumulative value of €10 billion. during the same period, unit labour costs decreased by 1%. these are the objectives of the project, and here the euro has not failed, and its consequences are clear: deterioration of living and working conditions, a decrease in the weight of wages in national income, unemployment, stagnation, destruction of production systems and marked deindustrialization in the peripheral countries by their conversion into consumers of the surplus production of the central countries. this path has proved unsustainable, but those who have benefited from it do not want to go back, they want to go forward. as always, each new step in integration seeks to legitimize the previous one and justify the next one. one thing is certain: they will rely on the resistance and struggle of the workers and peoples of europe.
the european union, with strong impetus from the european parliament, has been making efforts to improve the macroeconomic governance of our region. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. in particular, as regards any new proposal that may emerge, it should be aimed at increasing solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness, which in my view are principles that should be of concern alongside improving the levels of coordination of economic policy, as indicated in the commission's declaration accompanying the 2-pack, in order to respect the principle that advances towards greater economic responsibility and discipline are combined with greater solidarity. the areas of intervention should therefore not focus solely on cost competitiveness but should include the fiscal or the social and employment dimension. it is important that the union emerges stronger from the crisis, boosting its competitiveness, productivity, growth potential, economic convergence and, above all, its social cohesion.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the creation of a european monetary institute, the european monetary institute, the european monetary institute, the european monetary institute, the european monetary institute, the european institute, the european institute, the european institute, the european institute of the european institute of the european institute of the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations, the united nations we are talking about reducing wages, pensions, reducing social protection. we suck in wages and pensions to transfer directly to the financial markets, the result is increased unemployment, poverty and inequality and this is the reality we are facing. so whenever the commission and the governments talk about growth and job creation, what we see in the news, what we see every day, is the peak of unemployment, which is expected to be even higher, more people on the doorstep of the unemployment centres and this is the reality, and so either the commission and the governments abandon this myth that it is possible to build a european project with only markets and no people, or they are too late, because people cannot take it all, they cannot take it anymore. this is the political choice we have to make, and without resources and without political will, i believe we are facing the end of the european project.
madam president, commissioner, the strongest evidence of the imbalances within the european union is reflected today in the unemployment rates: greece has 62% of its young people unemployed, spain 57% and portugal 40%. this disaster is a consequence of the wrong policies imposed, but it is also a cause of the permanent aggravation of internal asymmetries. for two reasons, in the short term, because it's not possible to rebalance the public accounts when social spending explodes and tax revenues disappear with the recession. in the medium term, because it is not possible to increase competitiveness while the best qualified are excluded from the labour market or have to emigrate. my question is this: when will the commissioner present to this parliament what he is obliged to present following the council conclusions of december 2012? a social pillar which reflects, in the scoreboard, the scale of employment and poverty and which anticipates policies which can correct them, because unemployment cannot be the adjustment variable, unemployment must be part of the analysis of the economic situation of the countries, it is an internal variable in the model, it is not the result of purely nominal adjustment policies.
madam president, in a europe plunged into austerity, supposedly because of a lack of resources, where wages, pensions and public services are being penalized, this parliament has made a diagnosis that is very clear: we lose every year in fraud, tax evasion or tax havens something like 1 trillion euros, or eight times the european budget. it is very clear that the problem is not a lack of resources, the problem is a lack of political will and, forgive me, a lack of shame, and therefore what we have to do is very simple: resources are concentrated, they have to be redistributed. if we were to tax tax havens, the amount of money collected would more than double the amount of extreme poverty in the world, that is what we are talking about, social justice, and therefore governments cannot continue to be ostriches with their heads in the sand, they must take positions that defend the interests of citizens and above all they must realise that the credibility of the european project is at stake.
in writing. − the fight against tax fraud and evasion is intensifying at a time when europe is facing a serious economic crisis and a policy of fiscal consolidation, while some €1 billion is lost every year (€2,000 per european citizen), hampering the ability of states to invest in projects that promote growth and the well-being of their citizens. the european parliament is therefore actively contributing to the fight against this phenomenon by putting forward concrete proposals to this end: the reduction of the tax differential in the member states by half by 2020, the active fight against tax havens and the creation of a blacklist of countries that do not cooperate with eu rules in this area. other proposals, such as cutting state aid to non-compliant companies and increasing the sharing of information between member states on taxation matters, are also part of this report. the eu's role in combating tax evasion and tax fraud and in leading this discussion within the oecd, the g8 and the g20 is fundamental, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − the fight against tax fraud and evasion is intensifying at a time when europe is facing a serious economic crisis and a policy of fiscal consolidation, while some €1 billion is lost every year (€2,000 per european citizen), hampering the ability of states to invest in projects that promote growth and the well-being of their citizens. the european parliament is therefore actively contributing to the fight against this phenomenon by putting forward concrete proposals to this end: the reduction of the tax differential in the member states by half by 2020, the active fight against tax havens and the creation of a blacklist of countries that do not cooperate with eu rules in this area. other proposals, such as cutting state aid to non-compliant companies and increasing the sharing of information between member states on taxation matters, are also part of this report. i consider the eu's role in combating tax evasion and tax fraud and in leading this discussion within the oecd, the g8 and the g20 to be fundamental and i support the proposals in this report and therefore i vote in favour.
in writing. − the fight against tax fraud and evasion aims not only to restore the revenue from uncollected taxes, but also to restore fiscal justice in favour of the budgets and taxpayers of the european union. this is a fight that requires coordinated action at european and global level, and that is why i am voting in favour of this report. the total loss of revenue due to tax fraud and evasion in the union is €1 billion a year! to put this in perspective, we are talking about a loss order equivalent to twice the budget deficit of all the member states, or equivalent to six times the value of the union budget. a heavy burden on the budgets of the member states and the union, particularly those facing tough budgetary consolidation processes, as is the case in my country, portugal. moreover, tax fraud and evasion confer an unfair competitive advantage on offenders, undermine the confidence of compliant taxpayers and affect the functioning of the internal market. at a time when many member states are struggling to achieve or maintain the stability of their national accounts, it is all the more important that we remain steadfast in this fight!
in writing. - according to the ec's annual report, public coffers lose over €1 billion annually due to tax fraud and evasion. the losses incurred are largely due to cross-border activities and the lack of coordination of tax policies in the eu is evident. it is therefore urgent to establish a coherent european strategy to be implemented by all member states. this will create an effective and coordinated system to combat tax fraud and tax evasion in the eu. the action plan presented by the commission is therefore a step in the right direction. i welcome the proposed target of halving the tax differential by 2020. it should be recalled that the european semester is, by far, a relevant instrument for integrating an ambitious and coordinated strategy on taxation in the member states. it should therefore be actively exploited to that end.
in writing. - member states have long struggled to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, with little success. the deepening of the economic and financial crisis and the steady rise in unemployment are now leading to a public outcry, and the issue has acquired a new urgency, as taxpayers are demanding effective measures from the authorities. it is estimated that the eu wastes around €1 trillion a year by not being able to tax all capital. this is more than the eu's budgets for seven years! this is a situation that must be brought to an end and which affects the whole financial system of the eu. these are crossborder leaks which can only be prevented if there is a link between all ms. i therefore welcome the proposed measures and hope that we will soon have a blacklist of countries which are considered tax havens. i voted in favour of the report by mr mojca kleva kekuš because it contains concrete proposals to improve the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. in a space where there are 26 million unemployed, our priority has to be social justice. we'll all have to profit if everyone pays the taxes they owe.
in writing. the report avoids essential questions and moves along paths that raise serious reservations. there is no reference to the consequences of the liberalisation of capital movements and their effect on the loss of tax revenue. although it refers to the fight against tax havens - pure rhetoric - not once is there any mention of the real need to dismantle them to prevent the transfer to these places of billions of euros of tax evasion. nor is there any reference to the increase in tax revenue from those who contribute little or nothing to the tax system, but who have considerable means and assets at their disposal. the general reference to tax benefits is symptomatic, without excluding the benefits enjoyed by large economic and financial groups under certain provisions relating to employees. in portugal, the latter were attacked on the orders of the troika, while the former remained intact. nor is there any reference to the impact of privatisation of public enterprises - some of them highly profitable and generating high tax revenues - on the breakdown of tax revenues. as is so often the case, the focus is on the chicken-fighters, on labour income, on smes, on small farmers, leaving the great tax crime of tax evasion and money laundering untouched.
in writing. - member states lose €1 trillion a year to tax fraud and evasion in the european union. the average tax revenue lost in europe currently exceeds the total amount of member states' expenditure on health care and is more than four times the amount spent on education in the european union. in view of these figures, it is good to see the seriousness of the problem and the importance of attacking it in order to recover these values, which will certainly relieve the european citizens of the great austerity to which they are subject. i believe that the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion should be one of the union's main priorities, so that the union can become ever more fair and transparent.
in writing. − the fight against tax fraud and evasion is intensifying at a time when europe is facing a serious economic crisis and a policy of fiscal consolidation, while some €1 billion is lost every year (€2,000 per european citizen), hampering the ability of states to invest in projects that promote growth and the well-being of their citizens. the european parliament is therefore actively contributing to the fight against this phenomenon by putting forward concrete proposals to this end: the reduction of the tax differential in the member states by half by 2020, the active fight against tax havens and the creation of a blacklist of countries that do not cooperate with eu rules in this area. other proposals, such as cutting state aid to non-compliant companies and increasing the sharing of information between member states on taxation matters, are also part of this report. the eu's role in combating tax evasion and tax fraud and in leading this discussion within the oecd, the g8 and the g20 is key, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in a europe plunged into austerity, supposedly due to a lack of resources, where wages, pensions and public services are being penalized, this parliament has made a diagnosis that is very clear: we lose every year in fraud, tax evasion or tax havens something like 1 trillion euros, or eight times the european budget. it is very clear that the problem is not a lack of resources, the problem is mainly a lack of political will, and therefore what we have to do is very simple: resources are concentrated, they have to be redistributed. if we taxed offshore, the amount of money collected would more than double the amount of extreme poverty in the world. this is what we are talking about, social justice, and therefore governments cannot continue to be ostriches with their heads in the sand. they must take a stand in the interests of their citizens and above all they must realise that the credibility of the european project is at stake.
in writing. − the european union loses €1 trillion of potential tax revenue annually due to fraud, evasion and aggressive tax planning, representing an annual cost of €2,000 per european citizen, without appropriate action being taken in response. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must take immediate and coordinated action against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. i also believe that there should be an international agreement on the automatic exchange of tax information in order to reduce tax fraud and evasion. i also think it is crucial that member states halve the tax differential by 2020. although countries remain competent in their tax systems, fraud and evasion require a coordinated approach at national, european and international level. i believe that the european commission should adopt a common set of criteria for identifying tax havens and create a european public blacklist of tax havens by 31 december 2014.
in writing. - the title of the report might lead us to think that it is a report with legitimate concerns and that it would point in a different direction with serious and effective proposals to combat fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. it was a disappointment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. there is a big difference between increasing coordination in the exchange of information - which we support - and transferring tax powers from the member states to the eu. other measures would have to be proposed. no reference to the effects of the liberalisation of capital movements and its effect on the loss of tax revenue. although the fight against tax havens is mentioned - pure rhetoric - not once is there any mention of the real need to dismantle them or the need to defend the principle of territoriality which holds that capital should be taxed in the territory where it was created, which would prevent the phenomenon of tax avoidance, so common today because it is legal and accepted, although immoral.
in writing. − this is the second year that the european parliament has adopted an annual report on taxation, the aim of which is to help make tax collection more effective by making it a tool for promoting economic growth, at a time when the crisis and fiscal consolidation are dominating european discussions. the eu loses around €1 billion every year (€2,000 per european citizen) due to tax fraud and evasion. making collection more efficient is becoming urgent and central to the process of european economic recovery. one step towards this goal is to promote greater tax coordination between member states (ms), with greater exchanges of tax information and the promotion of tax planning that promotes sustainable growth. the proposal is for a 'tax snake' system which, while not harmonising the tax systems of the member states, will make it possible to coordinate them, taking into account tax increases and reductions. tax simplification should also be part of a strategy for a stronger single market in these matters. this report deserves my support, as it presents positive proposals at a time when the issues of double taxation and tax evasion are considerable problems, causing significant budgetary losses in the eu.
in writing. − this is the second year that the european parliament has adopted an annual report on taxation, the aim of which is to help make tax collection more effective by making it a tool for promoting economic growth, at a time when crisis and consolidation dominate european discussions. the eu loses around €1 billion every year (€2,000 per european citizen) due to tax fraud and evasion. making collection more efficient is becoming urgent and central to the process of european economic recovery. one step towards this goal is to promote greater tax coordination between member states (ms), with greater exchanges of tax information and the promotion of tax planning that promotes sustainable growth. the report proposes a 'tax snake' system which, while not harmonising the tax systems of the member states, allows them to be coordinated in the light of tax increases and reductions. tax simplification should also be part of a strategy for a stronger single market in these matters. i shall vote in favour of this text because i consider it to be a positive proposal at a time when the issues of double taxation and tax evasion are major problems, causing significant budgetary losses in the eu.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to remind you that fiscal policy remains a matter of national sovereignty and that the different tax systems of the member states must be respected. however, the internal market barriers, uncertainties and misunderstandings resulting from the legal loopholes should be resolved in a timely manner. i therefore vote in favour of this report, whose proposals are designed to make tax collection in the member states more effective and to make it a catalyst for economic growth. i believe it is essential to ensure fiscal discipline and to carry out structural reforms appropriate adjustment of fiscal policies in the short, medium and long term in order to restore the credibility of fiscal policy and to reduce sovereign debts, especially when the crisis and fiscal consolidation in the member states is a current topic in european discussions. i would also like to stress the proposal to create a 'tax snake' system which will not allow for the harmonization of the different tax systems in force in the member states but rather for close coordination, in a continuous and transparent manner, which includes tax reductions and increases in the national structures.
in writing. − fiscal policy is a central element in the need to unlock the eu's economic potential. fiscal policies, while not necessarily lacking harmonisation, must be coordinated and used intelligently, particularly when the eu urgently needs to regain its place as the leading player on the world market. today, more than ever, in countries like my own, portugal, fiscal policy must be seen and conceived as a motor to support economic development. fiscal policy choices should be smart and should focus on creating tax structures that stimulate long-term aggregate demand, facilitate export-oriented activities, encourage job creation and promote sustainable development. in the framework of the planning of the national reform plan and the stability and growth plan for 2014, portugal should fully develop the role of fiscal policy as a measure to stimulate economic growth and have a clear and concrete long-term agenda that will allow us to finally have a stable and sound fiscal policy.
in writing. − the report under review focuses on the annual report on taxation, more specifically on how to unlock the eu's economic growth potential. the european tax system is very effective in relation to taxpayers with medium and low incomes but not very effective in taxing the wealthy. however, this struggle can only be successful if all member states are involved so that border transactions can be controlled. the response of most member states to the crisis has been to adopt very strict taxation measures and is leading to a large degree of tax evasion, which makes it impossible to collect taxes. the black economy in the eu has increased and we are facing the flight of hundreds and hundreds of billions of euros which leads to the loss of a trillion euros a year. i therefore call on the member states to cooperate more closely with each other under the coordination of the commission, not refusing to share the information available with other member states, so that this scourge of tax evasion and avoidance can be curbed. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures adopted will make tax collection more effective and an instrument for boosting economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - this report advocates tax increases. of course, the increase in vat - the most blind tax, which hits equally those who have the least and those who can least and the holders of great wealth. it advocates the expansion of the collectible to catch only the chicken-heaps, keeping intact the large capital, its profits, the mechanisms that allow it to maintain low rates of tax payment, tax exemptions and benefits, subsidies and other stewardships. a path that has been followed in portugal. as wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few and these pay fewer and fewer taxes, greater sacrifice is required of workers, who see their incomes reduced, their taxes increased and the provision of public services in health, education and social security reduced. we are opposed to this approach, which is based on greater tax justice, with a reform of the tax system that directs taxes to where wealth is actually concentrated and that ensures the revenue necessary for the full fulfilment of the social functions of the state. this will ensure not only conditions for economic growth but also, and above all, conditions for fairer and more harmonious development and social progress.
in writing. − the current debt crisis has created a number of new problems in the european union which require an appropriate adjustment of fiscal policies in the short, medium and long term. some member states have already made these adjustments, while others have not yet done so. it should be stressed that tax policy remains a matter of national sovereignty and that the different tax systems of the member states must therefore be respected, while the barriers of the internal market and the uncertainties and ambiguities resulting from the legal loopholes must be overcome as quickly as possible. it is essential to restore the credibility of fiscal policy and to reduce sovereign debt; it is unavoidable to ensure fiscal discipline and introduce structural reforms, but at the same time to give priority to growth-oriented fiscal measures and the promotion of taxes levied more on consumption than on labour, as the former are better suited to stimulate economic growth and employment in the long term. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this is the second year that the european parliament has adopted an annual report on taxation, the aim of which is to help make tax collection more effective, making it a tool for economic growth, at a time when the crisis and fiscal consolidation are dominating european discussions. the eu loses around €1 billion every year (€2,000 per european citizen) due to tax fraud and evasion. making collection more efficient is becoming urgent and central to the process of european economic recovery. one step towards this goal is to promote greater tax coordination between member states (ms), with greater exchanges of tax information and the promotion of tax planning that promotes sustainable growth. the proposal is for a 'tax snake' system which, while not harmonising the tax systems of the member states, will make it possible to coordinate them, taking into account tax increases and reductions. tax simplification should also be part of a strategy for a stronger single market in these matters. this report deserves my support, as it presents positive proposals at a time when the issues of double taxation and tax evasion are considerable problems, causing significant budgetary losses in the eu.
in writing. − the european union is going through a serious economic and financial crisis, forcing several member states to seek international help to meet their commitments to international bodies. i believe that austerity measures are necessary, but i believe that they must be balanced with other measures to increase competitiveness, job creation or economic growth, because only then will it be possible to achieve an effective macroeconomic balance and to meet the deficit and public debt ratios. i believe that taxation is crucial to improving the competitiveness of countries and the european union as a whole, and that there must be an effective fight against tax fraud and evasion, the elimination of double taxation and the reduction of the tax differential between member states.
in writing. - this report advocates tax increases. of course, the increase in vat - the most blind tax - penalizing equally those who have less and those who can do less and the owners of great wealth. it advocates the expansion of the collection system to catch the chicken-flies, while keeping big capital, its profits, the mechanisms that allow it to maintain low rates of tax payment - as advocated in relation to the single social tax for countries such as portugal -, tax exemptions, subsidies and other stewardships. and as wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of a few and they pay less and less tax, the greatest sacrifices are demanded of workers, who see their incomes reduced. although it is recognised that the responsibility for tax policy remains with the member states, it is again argued that the single market requires that the costs of cross-border activities be reduced, with the consequent loss of tax revenue for the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the view that it should state that the european parliament was consulted in the process and suggest that the ratification process in the member states does not begin until both chambers of the czech parliament have ratified it. in order to ensure that the values of the european union prevail, in particular the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon, i recommend that both chambers of the czech parliament sign it as soon as possible.
in writing. - having regard to the recommendation of the rapporteur, i voted in favour of this report and consider that it is not necessary to convene a convention to examine the proposal for the extension of protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom, to the czech republic, since, if it were to be held, the effects of this proposal would be limited.
in writing. − in the letter sent to the council on 5 september 2011 by the czech government, an amendment to the treaties was requested with a view to adding a protocol on the application of the charter to the czech republic. in this consultation of parliament on the appropriateness of examining the proposed amendments, i support the european council's proposal not to convene a convention. any additional protocol which creates special rules on the application of parts of eu law to a member state requires a revision of the treaties. however, it is clear that the charter of fundamental rights does not extend the scope of eu law to areas outside the union's competence, does not create any new competences or tasks for the eu, and does not modify the competences and tasks defined in the treaties. the case law has also made it clear that protocol no 30 does not exempt poland and the united kingdom from the binding provisions of the charter, as it does not constitute an exemption clause. the czech parliament has also ratified the treaty of lisbon without any reservations or restrictions as regards the czech republic's full accession to the charter.
in writing. - the recommendation in question, drawn up by mr andrew duff, concerns a proposal by the european council not to convene a convention for the addition to the treaty on european union (teu) and the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) of a protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (cfreu) to the czech republic. the czech government sent a letter to the council on 5 september 2011 on a draft protocol on the application of the eutl to the czech republic. the government claims that, during the lisbon negotiations, it obtained a categorical declaration, declaration no 53, which gave it a special status in relation to the full application of the principles enshrined in the tfeu. in view of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs and considering that the tfeu is a binding text setting out the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the european union, i voted in favour of this recommendation that a convention not be convened to examine the proposal to extend protocol no 30 on the application of the tfeu to the czech republic.
in writing. - this report is a recommendation from the european parliament to the european council on the czech republic's application for accession to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. the inclusion of the czech republic in protocol no 30 constitutes an amendment to the treaty, which would require the convening of a convention. however, if the european parliament agrees, the european council may not have to convene a convention. parliament therefore recommended that there should be no need to convene a convention to amend the proposed enlargement to the czech republic. it is recalled that the protocol in question exempts the united kingdom and poland from the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights, countries to which the czech republic now joins. we respect the sovereign decisions of each country. we have been critical of the content of this charter of fundamental rights, which is minimalist compared, for example, with the universal declaration of human rights, the constitution of the portuguese republic or even the social charter of the council of europe. and even that content is called into question by these countries, and they are allowed to opt out, which has not happened with respect to other situations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the draft protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic (approval), in the sense that it is not justified to convene a convention to examine the proposal for the extension to the czech republic of protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom, since, if it existed, the effects of this proposal would be limited.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the european council's proposal not to convene a convention for the addition to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union of a protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic, as the useful effect of such a convene ment would be questionable given that the text of the charter has been incorporated into the treaty of lisbon and is therefore valid for all member states equally.
in writing. the european parliament today approved the proposal not to convene a convention to examine the proposed extension of protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom, to the czech republic, as the effects of this proposal would be limited if it existed. recalling that both the conventions for the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights and for the drafting of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe were convened to deal with essential issues concerning the constitutional order of the union, including the adoption of a binding text setting out the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the union, i voted in favour of not convening a convention for the addition to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union of a protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic.
in writing. - the protocol exempts the united kingdom and poland from the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights, countries to which the czech republic now joins. we respect the sovereign decisions of each country. we have been critical of the content of this minimalist 'charter of fundamental rights' compared with, for example, the universal declaration of human rights, the constitution of the portuguese republic or even the social charter of the council of europe. and even this content is called into question by these countries, and they are allowed to opt out, which has not happened with respect to other situations. but we cannot help pointing out the hypocrisy and contradictions of this eu: derogations, exceptions or opt-outs for 'fundamental rights' yes, but not for the rules of competition, the single market or the sacrosanct principle of the free movement of capital. this is a clear indication of the order of priorities, which is well established in the treaties.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that, in summary, protocol no 30 does not exempt the united kingdom and poland from the binding provisions of the charter. this is not a waiver clause. it doesn't change the charter. as it stands, the protocol does not appear to alter the legal position which would prevail in its absence. however, the mere existence of the protocol has given rise to legal uncertainty and political confusion, and therefore it affects all member states negatively and not just the united kingdom, poland or, prospectively, the czech republic. what is also perfectly clear is that if protocol no 30 were to be interpreted as limiting the scope or the legal force of the provisions of the charter, the result would be a reduction in the protection of the fundamental rights of british and polish citizens, thus undermining the union's efforts to achieve and maintain a uniformly high level of protection of rights.
in writing. the government of the czech republic is seeking the accession of its state to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. if protocol no 30 were to be interpreted as limiting the scope or the legal force of the provisions of the charter, the result would be a reduction in the protection of the fundamental rights of british and polish citizens, thus undermining the efforts of the union to achieve and maintain a uniformly high level of protection of rights. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the charter of fundamental rights adopted in nice (2000), and made legally binding by the treaty of lisbon, is a synthesis of common european values with which all citizens can identify. these values are the result of the rich cultural heritage of the different eu countries, their constitutional traditions and legal rules, and they characterize the union not only as an economic construct but as a community of common values. although there are many doubts about the willingness of both the czech parliament and the czech people themselves to ratify this protocol, which is intended to extend the application of protocol no 30 to this country, i believe that it will not be successful in reducing the standards for protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of czech citizens. in any event, the case law, in particular through the judgment of the court of justice of 21 december 2011, has made it clear that protocol no 30 does not exempt poland and the united kingdom from the binding provisions of the charter of fundamental rights and cannot therefore be used as an exemption clause. the protocol in question has the effect of creating legal uncertainty and political confusion, which undermines the efforts of the union to achieve a uniformly high and equitable level of protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. the czech republic is a full member of the union and as such should be able to use the legal instruments at its disposal which best inform the way in which it intends to exercise its participation in the european framework. the czech republic has expressed reservations about the full implementation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in its legal order. i believe you have the right to do so, although i question the actual usefulness of such a decision. i also wonder whether the czech state still has that desire, which is something that needs to be ascertained before any final value judgments can be made as to the goodness or justice of the czech claim.
in writing. − the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (cfreu), formally adopted in nice in december 2000 by the ep, the european council and the european commission, is a document which brings together the personal, civic, political, economic and social rights of european citizens which were enshrined in various international documents and which contains the following principles or rights: dignity, freedoms, equality, solidarity, citizenship and justice. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon (tl) in december 2009, the feudc became legally binding like the other treaties. the czech government claims that during the tl negotiations it obtained a categorical declaration, declaration no 53, which gave it a special status in relation to the full application of the principles enshrined in the tfeu. i voted in favour of the report by mr duff on the draft protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic (article 48 (3) teu) because i believe that the european council cannot continue this protocol unless it is to ensure differentiated treatment between member states. in addition, both the czech trade unions and institutions such as the european association for the defence of human rights and the czech helsinki committee have called for this draft protocol to be withdrawn.
in writing. - this report agrees with the czech republic's request for accession to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. it is recalled that this protocol now extended to the czech republic exempts these countries from the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights. we have been critical of the content of this charter of fundamental rights, which is minimalist compared, for example, with the universal declaration of human rights, the constitution of the portuguese republic or even the social charter of the council of europe. and even that content is called into question by these countries, and they are allowed to opt out, which has not happened with respect to other situations. we cannot help but point out the hypocrisy and contradictions of this eu: derogations, exceptions or opt-outs for fundamental rights, that is fine, but not for the rules of competition, the single market or the sacrosanct principle of the free movement of capital. this is a clear indication of their order of priorities, which is well established in the treaties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the union to the czech republic (consultation). protocol no 30 does not exempt poland and the united kingdom from the binding provisions of the charter and does not constitute an exemption clause for the application of fundamental rights. in fact, its only effect is to create legal uncertainty, undermining the union's objectives to maintain a high level of protection of fundamental rights. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the draft protocol not to examine the proposed amendment to the treaties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which concludes that protocol no 30 does not exempt the united kingdom and poland from the binding provisions of the charter. protocol no 30 is not an exemption clause and does not amend the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. as it stands, the protocol does not appear to alter the legal position which would prevail in its absence. indeed, if the protocol were to be interpreted as limiting the scope or the legal force of the provisions of the charter, the result would be a reduction in the protection of the fundamental rights of british and polish citizens, thus undermining the efforts of the union to achieve and maintain a uniformly high level of protection of rights.
in writing. the government of the czech republic is seeking the accession of its state to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. the czech republic, at the request of its president, took the more eurosceptic position. during the lisbon negotiations, it obtained its own categorical statement, declaration no 53, which deals with its concerns about the impact of the charter on the principles of subsidiarity, the allocation of powers and respect for national constitutions and international agreements. the parliament was consulted in accordance with the procedure laid down in the treaties, noting, however, that it is important to take into account that if the czech government insists on amending the treaty, it is unlikely that the czech parliament will ultimately ratify the new protocol and that in the two judgments of the czech constitutional court, of 2008 and 2009, it is stated that the treaty of lisbon is fully consistent with the czech constitution. it is in this context that i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the protocol exempts the united kingdom and poland from the application of the eu charter of fundamental rights, countries to which the czech republic now joins. we respect the sovereign decisions of each country. we have been critical of the content of this minimalist 'charter of fundamental rights' compared with, for example, the universal declaration of human rights, the constitution of the portuguese republic or even the social charter of the council of europe. and even this content is called into question by these countries, and they are allowed to opt out, which has not happened with respect to other situations. but we cannot help pointing out the hypocrisy and contradictions of this eu: derogations, exceptions or opt-outs for 'fundamental rights', yes, but no for the rules of competition, the single market or the sacrosanct principle of the free movement of capital. this is a clear indication of the order of priorities, which is well established in the treaties.
in writing. − i approve this instrument, considering that the purpose of this new instrument is to allow for the mutual recognition of protection measures based on civil law rather than criminal law. i think it is imperative for every european citizen to be guaranteed protection in one member state so that he is not harmed when he moves to another member state. i also think it would be appropriate to introduce, with this new instrument, a multilingual certificate which should be automatically transmitted between the member states issuing it and the member states for recognition, which would make the administrative procedures faster and more effective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the commission's proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which is part of a legislative package that strengthens the rights of victims in the eu and also includes a proposal for a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime.
in writing. − according to the stockholm programme, european citizens moving within the european area must be guaranteed the same level of protection in the common area of freedom, security and justice. this principle of mutual recognition has recently been applied to protection measures in criminal matters. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the time has come to make the system of protection more efficient for victims by ensuring their protection in the union. i think it is essential to ensure that every european citizen who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose it when he moves to another member state. moving towards mutual recognition of civil protection measures is moving towards more europe, better europe for all!
in writing. - i am aware of the enormous importance of an appropriate legal framework for the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. such a framework will allow persons who have been granted an order for protection to move freely and safely within the eu, which is essential to upholding the principles of freedom and security guaranteed by the treaties.
in writing. − the eu is an area of free movement of people and goods where all citizens should have the assurance that their rights are protected. the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, drawn up by mr antonio lópez-istúriz white and mrs antonyia parvanova, presents us with a regulation which enshrines the right of victims in the eu and strengthens protection measures in criminal matters. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we are dealing with an instrument which, in addition to helping the police and the judiciary to protect victims, is essential to fill the protection gap in relation to the most vulnerable and fragile people, such as women and children. it is an innovative instrument that will facilitate access to justice, ensuring conditions of free movement throughout the eu, for victims of heinous crimes such as domestic violence, sexual harassment, paedophilia, etc. victims will be protected not only in their country of origin but also in any other member state.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims at the mutual recognition within the european union of protection measures for victims of violence. the aim is to grant all victims recognition of the crime and the highest possible level of protection in the eu member states. to protect a person where there are serious grounds for believing that his or her life, physical or psychological integrity, personal freedom, security or sexual integrity are threatened, in particular to prevent any form of gender-based violence and violence against privacy. it applies to all victims, whether or not they are victims of acts of gender-based violence. the rapporteur stresses that it is imperative to ensure that a person who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose it when he moves to another member state. they provide for the establishment of a mechanism that eliminates intermediate formalities through the use of a uniform model certificate and a multilingual standard form. this ensures not only quick and simple recognition but also the application of protective measures. we voted in favour.
in writing. − mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters is part of a legislative package that strengthens the rights of victims in the eu and also includes a proposal for a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. this proposal responds to the need for a comprehensive european legal framework that will grant all victims of crime recognition and the highest possible level of protection within the territory of the union. the proposal for this regulation will complement the european protection order directive which ensures mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters. the combined application of the two instruments (criminal and civil) will allow persons who have been granted an order for protection to move freely and safely within the eu, as provided for in article 3 of the treaty on european union, and will ultimately lead to the strengthening and development of the areas of freedom, security and justice in the union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which welcomes the important commission proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which is part of a legislative package strengthening the rights of victims in the eu and which also includes a proposal for a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation complements the european protection order directive, which aims at the mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters within the territory of the union. the application of these instruments will allow citizens who have been granted an order of protection to move freely and safely within the eu. i approved in plenary the legislative package strengthening the rights of victims through provisions which include simplifying the recognition of protection orders by eliminating intermediary formalities by means of a standardised and multilingual certificate, and strengthening the rights and procedures relating to information and translation, which are indispensable in the diverse and particular linguistic context of the union.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the commission's proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, which is part of a legislative package strengthening the rights of victims in the eu and which also includes a proposal for a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. the proposal for this regulation will complement the european protection order directive which ensures mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters. this proposal includes simplification of the recognition of protection orders, a perspective on addressing the situation of victims of gender-based violence, and promoting awareness of related issues. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters expressly aims to recognise protection measures granted to victims of violence in those countries where the adoption of such measures is a matter for civil or administrative jurisdiction. what is at stake here is to ensure that a person who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose it when he moves to another member state. the objective is to protect a person where there are serious grounds for considering that his or her life, physical or psychological integrity, personal freedom, security or sexual integrity are threatened, in particular to prevent any form of gender-based violence and violence against privacy. although we disagree with some of the considerations which place this proposal within the framework of the functioning of the internal market, we naturally voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the events of 11 september have given rise to a large number of initiatives aimed at developing policies in this area. while recognising the global security challenges and the need to secure supply chains through effective measures, the european union has based its international cooperation in this area on the promotion of security standards worldwide, in particular the wco safe framework, the exchange of information and data, and the mutual recognition of trusted operators. in my view, in a globalised world, no country can guarantee supply chain security on its own, so cooperation and international standards are essential. i welcome this risk-based approach to securing global supply chains, as it allows legitimate international trade to proceed smoothly and without unnecessary economic burden for authorities and operators.
in writing. − trade relations between the european union and canada are based on the customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement between the european community and canada (cmaa) of 1998. in 2005, canada expressed an interest in moving towards closer cooperation with the eu on supply chain security and risk management. since may 2011, the commission has been negotiating the draft customs cooperation agreement on supply chain security issues, aiming to strengthen the customs aspects of the security of the logistics chain of international trade. the agreement establishes a legal basis for enhanced customs cooperation between the eu and canada, and also opens the door to mutual recognition agreements on customs security, including the mutual recognition of their respective trade partnership programmes with equivalent trade facilitation measures, i.e. the eu authorised economic operator (aeo) system. in view of the fact that this agreement will be beneficial for the european economy, i supported this recommendation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. i agree that the new customs cooperation agreement with canada consolidates and extends customs cooperation between the two developed partners. it will also complement the global economic and trade agreement under negotiation.
in writing. − in a globalised world, where production and distribution chains are interconnected and intermingled, no country can guarantee supply chain security on its own, so cooperation and international standards are now essential. in this context, i am voting in favour of this report, the adoption of which will allow the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and canada on supply chain security and risk management. customs relations between the union and canada date back to 1998. the new agreement, which establishes a legal basis for customs cooperation between the two partners, will strengthen the monitoring of the various aspects of the security of the logistics chain of international trade, such as container security or partnerships in cargo inspection. it is certainly an important step towards mutual recognition in the field of customs security. finally, i would stress that this agreement, which will not have any costly implications for the union's budget, will certainly improve our trade relations with canada. by consolidating and extending customs cooperation between the two partners, this agreement complements the comprehensive economic and trade agreement under negotiation.
in writing. - trade relations have a global dimension which was not even suspected until recently. the european union naturally has partners with whom, by virtue of their shared history, culture and civilization, trade is not only more fluid but also more extensive. canada is clearly in this position. the threats we are facing at the same time call for trading partners to work together to seek to minimise the risks involved in the transport and storage of goods. improving supply chain security and risk management will contribute to further enhancing the privileged relationship between the union and canada and reinforcing the already strong bonds of trust between the parties and their long-standing trade relations.
in writing. the recommendation by mr šťastný concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on customs cooperation between the european union (eu) and canada on matters relating to supply chain security. customs relations between the eu and canada date back to 1998, when an agreement on customs cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters between the european community and canada (cmaa) was established. however, in 2005, canada proposed enhanced cooperation on security throughout the international trade logistics chain, including container security and risk management. the agreement also strengthens mutual recognition for trade partnership programmes, facilitating bilateral trade, in particular with regard to the eu authorised economic operator (aeo) and canadian partner protection programmes (pips), as is already the case with the united states of america and japan. i voted in favour of this report, which consolidates and extends customs cooperation between the eu and canada and will complement the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) currently under negotiation.
in writing. − customs relations between the eu and canada are based on the customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement between the european community and canada (cmaa) of 1998. in 2005, canada expressed its interest in moving towards closer cooperation with the eu on supply chain security and risk management. the aim of the new agreement is to strengthen customs aspects related to the security of the logistics chain of international trade including container security while facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement establishes new provisions on issues such as risk standards, security controls, minimum standards for risk management techniques, exchange of information and data and cargo inspection. in general terms, the draft decision appears to us to be proportionate and justified.
in writing. − customs relations between the european union and canada are based on the customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement between the european community and canada (cmaa) of 1998. in 2005, canada expressed an interest in enhancing existing cooperation with the eu on supply chain security and risk management. the draft customs cooperation agreement on supply chain security issues negotiated by the commission since may 2011 consolidates the 1998 cmaa and extends its scope. the aim of the new agreement is to strengthen customs aspects related to the security of the logistics chain of international trade including container security while facilitating legitimate trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on customs cooperation between the european union and canada on matters relating to security of supply chain, considering that the new agreement on customs cooperation with canada consolidates and extends customs cooperation between the two developed partners and that it will, moreover, complement the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) under negotiation. i hope that the various protectionist strategies of the canadian authorities, which have so harmed the export of azorean dairy products, particularly cheese, will be brought to an end quickly in the interests of a transparent and fruitful relationship.
in writing. − the events of 11 september have reshaped the number and quality of policy initiatives in the field of security, and in particular supply chain security and risk management. in order to detect and inspect potentially dangerous cargoes, the various international actors have strengthened the vision and policies for more intensive and multifaceted risk management. in this respect too, the customs relations between the european union and canada deserve particular legal attention, which is reflected in risk standards, security controls and minimum standards for risk management techniques that can guarantee the safety of containers. the agreement, the conclusion of which i support, allows for mutual recognition in customs security matters, enhancing cooperation which will facilitate trade in a global context.
in writing. − the objective of the new eu-canada agreement is to strengthen customs aspects related to the security of the international trade logistics chain, while facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement establishes a legal basis for enhanced customs cooperation between the eu and canada on issues such as risk standards, security controls, minimum standards for risk management techniques, exchange of information and data, strategic partnerships in the field of cargo inspection, as well as collaboration in international fora such as the world customs organization, and also opens the door to mutually recognised agreements on customs security. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. − the aim of the new agreement is to strengthen customs aspects related to the security of the logistics chain of international trade including container security while facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement establishes new provisions on issues such as risk standards, security controls, minimum standards for risk management techniques, exchange of information and data and cargo inspection. we agree.
in writing. - i approve the report, taking into account that when the financial crisis spread across europe in 2008, there were 17 different regulatory systems in place, all based on national rules and national rescue mechanisms. there was a certain form of european coordination, but it was related to exchanges of information and to rather informal cooperation procedures. this was not sufficient to respond to the financial sector crisis that the union has been going through in recent years. the european council and the commission are thus finally following the line taken by parliament, which has been calling for supranational banking supervision since 2002. the proposed banking union will change the way banks in the euro area are supervised by establishing a single supervisory mechanism to be set up within the european central bank. while supporting a single supervisory mechanism for the euro area, i stress the need to further strengthen the european banking authority in parallel to ensure its proper functioning to deepen the internal market in financial services and to avoid a division between euro-zone and non-euro-zone members as regards the rules applicable to the financial sector.
in writing. − the european union has been developing strategies to combat the economic crisis, which will restore confidence in financial systems and boost the growth capacity of member states' economies in a sustained manner. the european commission, the european parliament and the council of the european union have recently launched a roadmap for a stronger economic union. the creation of a banking union is part of this roadmap, the first pillar of which will be the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). while it is the ecb's responsibility to ensure the proper supervision of european banks, the european banking authority (eba) will be responsible for ensuring that the relevant legislation is implemented across the union in an integrated and harmonised manner, ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market for financial services. the report proposes that the eba should create a single supervisory guide, which is essential to ensure consistent enforcement of the regulation and ensures, within its mandate, the full and equal participation of all member states wishing to join the ssm, whether they belong to the euro area or not. pending the final vote on this matter, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union has been developing strategies to combat the economic crisis, which will restore confidence in financial systems and boost the growth capacity of member states' economies in a sustained manner. the european commission, the european parliament and the council of the european union have recently launched a roadmap for a stronger economic union. the creation of a banking union is part of this roadmap, the first pillar of which will be the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). while it is the ecb's responsibility to ensure the proper supervision of european banks, eba will be responsible for ensuring that the relevant legislation is implemented across the union in an integrated and harmonised manner, ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market for financial services. the report proposes that the eba should create a single supervisory guide, which is essential to ensure consistent enforcement of the regulation and ensures, within its mandate, the full and equal participation of all member states wishing to join the ssm, whether they belong to the euro area or not (by changing the voting arrangements in this body). pending the final vote on this matter, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - once again, the neoliberal dogmas of free movement of capital and the deepening of the internal market in financial services are prevailing. after the supervision, there will be the resolution, and after this, something that will say defend the bank deposits. the concerns are evident in creating mechanisms to facilitate eu intervention to save some banks, as has been happening in recent years, without such mechanisms being in place, and to let others down. the aim is therefore to organise, at eu level, the process of concentrating and centralising financial capital in the most powerful institutions of the major powers. this is already happening, as a result of the way the crisis has been managed (see the situation in cyprus). these mechanisms cast suspicion on certain banks, especially those in the peripheral countries, in order to concentrate financial capital in the banks of the great powers or to subordinate even more the economic groups of each country to the large transnational capital and its strategies, in order not only to maintain but also to deepen the speculative process. the banking system is an essential instrument for the determination and implementation of a wide range of policies. to that extent, it must be subject in each country to the public and democratic scrutiny and control of each people.
in writing. − on 29 june 2012, the euro area heads of state or government invited the commission to submit proposals for the creation of a single supervisory mechanism involving the european central bank (ecb). in its conclusions of 29 june 2012, the european council invited the president of the european council, in close cooperation with the president of the commission, the president of the eurogroup and the president of the ecb, to develop a specific and timetable roadmap for the achievement of a genuine economic and monetary union, including concrete proposals for preserving the unity and integrity of the single market for financial services, and taking into account the declaration on the euro area and the commission's intention to submit proposals on the basis of article 127 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism is the first step towards the creation of a european banking union, based on a true single set of rules for financial services and also incorporating a common framework for deposit guarantee and resolution. and it could represent an important step to restart the financing of the economy and economic recovery.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal to amend the regulation establishing a european supervisory authority (european banking authority) as regards its interaction with the regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions in order, inter alia, to promote the protection of depositors and investors. this report is also important in trying to restore the confidence of european depositors, which has been so shaken by the measures recently adopted in cyprus.
in writing. − the european union has been developing strategies to combat the economic crisis, which will restore confidence in financial systems and boost the growth capacity of member states' economies in a sustained way. the european commission, the european parliament and the council have recently launched a roadmap for a stronger economic union. the creation of a banking union is part of this roadmap, the first pillar of which will be the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). while it is the ecb's responsibility to ensure the proper supervision of european banks, the european banking authority (eba) will be responsible for ensuring that the relevant legislation is implemented across the union in an integrated and harmonised manner, ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market for financial services. the report proposes that the eba should create a single supervisory guide, which is essential to ensure consistent enforcement of the regulation, and ensure, within its mandate, the full and equal participation of all member states wishing to join the ssm, whether they belong to the euro area or not. i have already voted in favour of this report pending the final vote on this matter.
in writing. the european central bank is of particular importance to the stability of the euro area and the european union as a whole and should play a more active role in resolving the economic, financial and banking crisis in which the european territory finds itself. the conferral of supervisory tasks on the ecb in the banking sector of a part of the member states of the union should in no way hamper the functioning of the internal market in financial services. i am in favour of this report because i believe that the creation of a single supervisory mechanism is the first step towards the development of a european banking union, based on a true single set of rules for financial services and also incorporating the harmonisation of the different national deposit guarantee schemes and a common european resolution framework. it is therefore important to stress the importance of rapidly establishing economic and banking union, because it is better to save our citizens from paying more taxes to save the unviable banks. it is essential to develop an effective mechanism to keep european banks healthy by breaking the vicious cycle between sovereign debt and private bank debt.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that the single supervisory mechanism is the first and vital step towards a banking union in order to break the cycle between private and sovereign debt. i agree, however, that this should be complemented by a resolution framework including the single resolution fund and guarantee schemes. in my view, this agreement will ensure more accountability and transparency than the commission's original proposal. the european parliament will be able to improve the appointment of heads of oversight and will have greater access to documents, which is certainly an added value.
in writing. − the fragile economic situation of the european union requires concerted and ambitious action by european leaders in creating the conditions for economic prosperity and restoring stability to european financial markets. in this respect, one of the key steps in restoring confidence in the recovery of the euro area economic area is the building of a solid banking union, based on a number of pillars, of which the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is a prominent support. this report is about the creation of a ssm that will cover the financial institutions of the euro area and will be open to all other member states that wish to join it. the aim is to define how the ecb, as the ultimate supervisor of european banks, will perform its tasks, ensuring the stability of the system and maintaining its independence as the monetary policy authority. last march, the european parliament concluded some negotiations with the council of the european union on this dossier, although some doubts remain about the relevance of the ecb calling itself the direct supervisor of all european banks, and not just those of the greatest systemic importance. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the fragile economic situation of the european union requires concerted and ambitious action by european leaders in creating the conditions for economic prosperity and restoring stability to european financial markets. in this respect, one of the key steps in restoring confidence in the recovery of the euro area economic area is the building of a solid banking union, based on a number of pillars, of which the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is a prominent support. this report is about the creation of a ssm that will cover the financial institutions of the euro area and will be open to all other member states that wish to join it. the purpose of this text is to define how the ecb, as the ultimate supervisor of european banks, will perform its tasks, ensuring the stability of the system and maintaining its independence as the authority responsible for monetary policy. in march the european parliament concluded negotiations with the council of the european union on this dossier, which, as contained in this report, receive my support, although some doubts remain about the appropriateness of the ecb calling for direct supervision of all european banks, and not just those of the greatest systemic importance.
in writing. the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism, in which the ecb will play a central role, has clear objectives: the deepening of the internal market for financial services, the maintenance of the dogma of the free movement of capital and, above all, the saving of the euro. the ecb is thus taking over supervisory functions which were previously carried out by national institutions, such as banco de portugal. contrary to what the argument on which this proposal is based would have us believe, it was not for lack of supervisory mechanisms that the banks directed the bulk of their activity towards financial speculation. this is the result of the free movement of capital and the sophisticated financial products it has made possible, the crisis in the profitability of the capitalist system with the tendency of the profit rate to fall, the contradiction between the over-accumulation of capital and the contraction of markets and consumption caused by the loss of purchasing power of wages (due to their contraction) and their replacement by credit. in other words, the banks turned their main activity to financial speculation, with the complicity of the supervisory authorities and the ecb, which provided them with cheap credit and calmly and fearlessly watched them speculate with new financial instruments and so-called sovereign debts.
in writing. − over the past few decades, the union has made considerable progress towards creating an internal market for banking services. as a result, in many member states there are banking groups with head offices in other member states that hold a considerable market share, and credit institutions have geographically diversified their activities both within and outside the euro area. the current financial and economic crisis has brought europe's banking system to the brink of collapse. the integrity of the single currency and the single market is threatened by the fragmentation of the financial sector. it is now essential to step up the integration of the banking sector in order to strengthen european unity, restore financial stability and lay the foundations for economic recovery.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation conferring specific tasks on the ecb with regard to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions by agreeing to the amendments made to ensure that the ecb ensures full coordination with the competent national authorities to ensure a high level of consumer protection and the fight against money laundering.
in writing. − one of the key steps to restore confidence in the euro area is the building of a strong banking union, based on, among other pillars, a single supervisory mechanism. this report concerns the creation of a ssm which will cover the financial institutions of the euro area and will be open to all other member states wishing to join it. the aim is to define how the ecb, as the ultimate supervisor of european banks, will perform its tasks, ensuring the stability of the system and maintaining its independence as the monetary policy authority. last march the european parliament closed negotiations with the council on this dossier. there are still, of course, some doubts about the relevance of the ecb claiming to be the direct supervisor of all european banks and not just those of the greatest systemic importance. an interinstitutional agreement is also being concluded to ensure that the european parliament monitors the ecb's exercise of these supervisory functions. i believe that the ecb is the institution best placed to take on these tasks and i have supported this report and i hope that the implementation of the banking union will be speeded up.
in writing. the european central bank is of particular importance to the stability of the euro area and the european union as a whole and should play a more active role in resolving the economic, financial and banking crisis in which the european territory finds itself. this crisis is evident in the near failure of the european banking system, which has led to the integrity of the currency and the single market being threatened by the fragmentation of the financial sector. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it essential that efforts be stepped up to further integrate the banking sector in order to strengthen european unity, restore financial stability and lay the foundations for economic recovery. i believe that the ecb should carry out the tasks entrusted to it with a view to ensuring the safety and soundness of credit institutions and the stability of the financial system of the union and of each of the participating member states. in this respect, i welcome the ecb's direct supervision of institutions with assets exceeding eur 30 billion or whose assets represent at least 20% of the annual gdp of the home country, which may include banks that have received financial assistance, and at least 3 banks per member state.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the new legislative framework was adopted to fill in gaps in the existing union harmonisation legislation, with a view to completing the single market with fair competition and safe products. inconsistent implementation and enforcement of current union harmonisation by member states, as well as the existence of complex regulation, have increasingly hampered the interpretation and application of the legislation by economic operators and authorities, leading to unequal market conditions and the placing of unsafe products on the market. the 'mercadorias' package provides the general framework for simplifying product legislation to make it more uniform and comprehensible for both economic operators and market surveillance authorities. however, the provisions of the nql decision are not directly applicable. in order to ensure that all economic sectors covered by union harmonisation legislation benefit from the improvements brought about by the new legislative framework, it is in my view necessary to integrate the provisions of the nql decision into the existing product legislation.
in writing. − the current directive 2007/23/ec lays down essential safety requirements that pyrotechnic articles must meet in order to be made available on the market in the european union (eu). this report introduces amendments to the european commission's (ec) proposal for a recast of that directive. the proposal was submitted in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nql) adopted in 2008 as the 'merchandise' package. the nql was adopted to fill gaps in existing eu harmonisation legislation with a view to complementing the single market with fair competition and safe products. the nqf introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring fair treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a fair assessment of notified bodies across the eu market. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − directive 2007/23/ec, which is now being amended, lays down the essential safety requirements that pyrotechnic articles must meet in order to be made available on the eu market. the amendments proposed here are a fundamental step towards completing the single market with fair competition and safe products.
in writing. - the safety of persons and property, especially since the double bombing in norway, is a concern of the european institutions in general and of the european parliament in particular, which has already adopted specific legislation on dual-use goods. the report by zuzana roithová concerns a proposal for a recast of the directive of the european parliament (ep) and of the council (directive 2007/23/ec) on the harmonisation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles. this is a directive which lays down the safety conditions necessary for pyrotechnic articles to be placed on the market at european union (eu) level. in 2008, a new legislative framework (nql), the mercadorias package, was adopted, encompassing the complementary legislative instruments on accreditation and market surveillance requirements for the marketing of products. because the safety of people must come first, i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which aligns nine product directives with the nql, thus strengthening the confidence of producers and consumers by setting out the obligations of traders. the authorities will have more effective control and surveillance tools, reducing the presence of unsafe products on the market.
in writing. − this report introduces amendments to the european commission's proposal for a recast of directive 2007/23/ec on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. this directive aims to harmonise eu legislation in this area, in the context of the free movement of products in the single market. however, the report introduces several positive aspects in relation to the issues of safe handling and making available to the public of pyrotechnic articles, criteria for informing the public and reducing the administrative burden on economic operators. the directive does not preclude measures taken by a member state on grounds of public policy, public health, public security or environmental protection to prohibit or restrict the possession, use and/or sale to the general public of category 2 and 3 fireworks, theatrical pyrotechnics and other pyrotechnic articles. member states may increase the age limits for reasons of public policy, public security or public health. and lower the age limit for people who have or are undergoing specific vocational training. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the current directive 2007/23/ec lays down essential safety requirements that pyrotechnic articles must meet in order to be made available on the eu market. this report introduces amendments to the european commission's proposal for a recast of directive 2007/23/ec on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. the new legislative framework introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring fair treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a fair assessment of notified bodies across the eu market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which introduces amendments to the european commission's proposal to recast directive 2007/23/ec on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market, as the new legislative framework strengthens consumer protection by reducing red tape.
in writing. − this report introduces amendments to the european commission's proposal for a recast of directive 2007/23/ec, which lays down essential safety requirements that pyrotechnic articles must meet in order to be made available on the market. those amendments to the provisions of the directive concern the definitions, the obligations of economic operators, the presumption of conformity conferred by harmonised standards, the declaration of conformity (doc), the ce marking, the notified bodies, the safeguard clause procedure and the conformity assessment procedure. these amendments introduce a simplified regulatory environment for products, thus allowing for more consistent application, away from the regulatory complexity that has been hampering the interpretation and application of the legislation by economic operators and authorities.
in writing. − this report contains, in particular, proposals for directive 2007/23/ec on pyrotechnic articles. the rapporteur supports the alignment of nine product directives with the new legislative framework proposed by the ec, as it is in the direction of the completion of the european single market. i am voting in favour of this report because i am in favour of legal clarity, greater consumer protection, less red tape and greater and better taxation of new products entering the market.
in writing. − this report introduces amendments to the european commission's proposal for a recast of directive 2007/23/ec on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. this proposal was submitted in november 2011 as part of the implementation of the new legislative framework (nql), adopted in 2008 as the goods package. this directive aims to harmonise eu legislation guaranteeing the free movement of goods, contributing to the completion and functioning of the single market, which we disagree with. however, the report introduces several positive aspects in relation to the safety issues of handling and making pyrotechnic articles available to the public, such as the introduction of criteria for informing the public and reducing the administrative burden on economic operators. as regards age limits for sale to the public, member states may raise the limits for reasons of public policy, public safety or public health or lower them for persons who have or are undergoing specific vocational training. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the dynamism of accelerating technological progress is having a huge impact on the market for audiovisual services. the internet and television are converging, which means that operators are increasingly offering elements of second generation networks and the internet on modern television sets. in addition, cultural and technological changes and increasingly widespread access to broadband internet are providing millions of consumers with the opportunity to watch traditional television programmes using tablets, smartphones or consoles. connected tv brings great opportunities and enormous challenges, but it is necessary to ensure that the fundamental objectives of the audiovisual media services directive are achieved. with these new technological solutions, we have to ask ourselves how we can effectively promote european works and the works of independent producers, protect consumers - including children - from the excessive influence of advertising, create a level playing field for broadcasters, protect freedom of expression and media pluralism and promote media literacy - particularly among young people.
in writing. − the objective of this report is to assess the effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu on the provision of audiovisual communication services (aods) and the progress made in its transposition. as regards accessibility, the european commission (ec) should better monitor the situation regarding the provision of communication services to persons with visual or hearing impairments. it is also essential that member states encourage television operators to better understand the needs of people in this situation. as regards the promotion of european works, the ec should monitor progress in the member states and national bodies should encourage the wider dissemination of european works and present their comprehensive conclusions on this matter in full and on a regular basis. as regards the protection of minors, the development of codes of conduct in the member states should be encouraged in order to address the issues of the inappropriateness of audiovisual communication for commercial purposes in children's programmes, in particular advertising of food and beverages with sugar, salt or fat. the need for the ec to submit proposals on media literacy is also stressed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the audiovisual media services directive is the backbone of eu media regulation, covering all audiovisual content services, regardless of the technology used, which have a dual nature of cultural and economic services. it aims to ensure a level playing field for all audiovisual media service providers, especially given that the expansion of audiovisual media services markets in europe has generated enormous challenges in terms of competition, intellectual property rights, the evolution of existing forms of audiovisual commercial communication and the emergence of new ones. it is regrettable that there has been no uniform and complete transposition of this directive and that there have been huge differences in the way member states have complied with it. it is also regrettable that the commission has been late in presenting this report and has failed to examine the effectiveness of the implementing rules adopted by the member states and to assess the need for any adaptation of this directive in the light of the conclusions drawn. issues related to the protection of minors have become increasingly pressing and complex due to constant technological changes and therefore require special attention in order to ensure effective protection.
in writing. − the objective of this report is to assess the effectiveness of the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) and the progress made in its transposition. the dscsa is an instrument for the internal market which combines the right to provide audiovisual services with freedom of expression and information and the pursuit of important public interest objectives. it is therefore important that they are correctly transposed into national law and that their application is effectively monitored.
in writing. − audiovisual media services are essential to european citizenship as they allow citizens to be kept informed and to participate in decision-making through their opinions. the report we have just voted on, by piotr borys, analyses for the first time the application by the member states of the audiovisual media services directive during the three years it has been in force. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. however, there are areas where improvement is urgently needed. the need to increase the use of products of european origin, which is currently around 33%, and to increase the attention paid to certain content (alcohol and tobacco), in particular advertising, is obviously necessary in order to protect our young people, who, as everyone knows, have easy access to the internet. i voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur because i believe that the audiovisual media services directive, by covering some 87 000 broadcasting companies, is the key to guaranteeing media freedom in the european union.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to assess the effectiveness of the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) and the progress made in its transposition. the report identifies different degrees of implementation in the different member states. it refers to the importance of the right to offer audiovisual services, the right to freedom of expression and information and the pursuit of important public interest objectives. the approach is unfortunately always the same: the internal market. however, the document insists that the commission should exclude media and audiovisual services from any agreement on liberalisation in the context of the negotiations on the general agreement on trade in services, and considers that the concentration of media ownership may undermine freedom of information, in particular the right to receive information. those are very positive references. accessibility of media services is one aspect taken into account, with particular emphasis on the elderly and persons with disabilities, including visual and hearing disabilities, as well as aspects relating to the protection of minors, such as children's exposure to advertising and commercial communications. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to assess the effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu on the provision of audiovisual media services (avdms) and the progress made in its transposition. the directive is the cornerstone of the regulation of those media in the european union. article 33 provides that the commission is to report to the european parliament every three years on the application of the rules. the publication of the first commission report was significantly delayed, in particular because some member states did not fully transpose the directive within the deadline. it is important that the commission continue to analyse in depth the evolution of markets and consumer behaviour patterns with the development of these new services, as well as the potential effects they have on the audiovisual markets in the eu in the short and long term.
in writing. − article 33 of the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) 2010/13/eu provides that every three years the commission is to submit a report on its implementation to the european parliament. i voted in favour of this report, the main purpose of which is to assess the effectiveness and progress made in the transposition of the directive, which is the cornerstone of the regulation of these media in the european union. the report concludes that the directive has been implemented to varying degrees in different member states but that its wording remains appropriate as it is based on the principle of technology neutrality. the text of the directive is the result of a long and difficult process of negotiation between the parties concerned and the commitments reached must still be considered balanced and effective in serving the interests of both citizens and businesses.
in writing. − directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services coordinates certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, constituting an instrument for the internal market which combines the right to provide audiovisual services with the right to freedom of expression and information and the protection of important public interest objectives. this report assesses the effectiveness of the transposition of this directive by the member states and concludes that it remains an appropriate instrument in the governance of the coordination of national legislation in the audiovisual media, ensuring compliance with the principles agreed in the convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions, adopted by the un on 20 october 2005. i welcome the report's extensive coverage of the positive influence of the directive on market development and i voted in favour of this resolution, in the expectation that the european commission will follow parliament's recommendations in future evaluations of the implementation of the directive.
in writing. − this directive is the basis for the regulation of audiovisual media services in the union, which encompasses the right to freedom of expression and information and the protection of public interests. this report is an analysis of the respective applicability of the directive. the european parliament raises issues in the following areas: accessibility for older people and/or people with disabilities, promotion of 'made in europe' and self-employment, protection of minors, commercial communications, media literacy and the prohibition of hate speech. the report also calls for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to assess the effectiveness of the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd) and the way in which it has been transposed. the report identifies different degrees of implementation in the different member states and refers to the importance of the right to offer audiovisual services, the right to freedom of expression and information and the pursuit of important public interest objectives. it is true that audiovisual media services are still regarded here as an instrument for the internal market, which seems to us to be a negative thing. however, the document insists that the commission should continue to exclude media and audiovisual services from any agreement on liberalisation in the context of the negotiations on the general agreement on trade in services, and considers that the concentration of media ownership may undermine freedom of information, in particular to receive information, which we consider to be very positive references. accessibility of media services is one aspect taken into account, with particular emphasis on the elderly and people with disabilities, including visual and hearing disabilities, and the protection of minors from exposure to advertising and commercial communications.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in syria, but that we should be concerned about the situation in syria. unfortunately, we keep repeating this because the humanitarian tragedy is increasing and we bring up this issue because it is not just a matter for syria, for the neighbouring countries or the middle east, it is a matter for all of us, and that is why the european union must take a much stronger position. the question of lack of resources cannot be a justification. as has already been mentioned, there is a fund for the resettlement of refugees which must be put into practice. we must also support the neighbouring countries which are receiving a huge number of refugees, as has already been mentioned, in particular lebanon and jordan, and we must, without a doubt, guarantee protection and provide the guarantees and humanitarian conditions for refugees who also want to settle in europe. because, as i said, this is a matter for all of us and i also want to say, commissioner, in conclusion, that i support the political solution to this conflict, the conference that is to be held, but there is also more that we can do, namely to stop the supply of arms and military equipment.
the humanitarian disaster facing the syrian people will not end until a political solution to the civil war is found, a solution which can and must be achieved by the european union investing more in the relationship and training of the forces opposed to the dictator bashar al-assad, so that they respect humanitarian law and so that conditions are created for a future democratic governance, including in syria. it is also urgent that the union engages in diplomacy with beijing and moscow, in private, at conferences such as geneva ii, but also through public diplomacy, if necessary, through megaphones, in order to get the chinese and russian leaders to abandon the inhumane veto, allowing the un security council to demand that the international community exercise its responsibility to protect the suffering syrian people and the peoples of the neighbouring countries, who are also already suffering the dramatic consequences of the conflict in syria. it is not a question of arming the rebels and sowing more chaos, extremism and blood, but of putting an end to the scandalous dismissal of the syrian people by the international community, otherwise the barbarism will worsen and create a failed state in the heart of the middle east.
mr president, an extremely dark page of human history is being written in syria these days. over the last few months we have been watching the worst of mankind being shown to future generations: the fanaticism and cruelty of several radical groups from both sides; the sadism of numerous fighters from both sides, the masochism of others – quite a lot coming from europe or from neighbouring countries; the hunger, suffering and despair of many caught in the middle of a tragedy to which they did not contribute; the mutilation, disfigurement, lack of dignity and hope of common people who simply wanted to live their lives in peace; the torture, punishment, degrading treatment and abduction of many from the comfort of their families; the crying agony and the violation of children and women; the forced displacement of thousands and thousands; the dramatic situation of the refugees; the hypocrisy of the international community, of those involved and of those that do nothing to stop this massacre. it is time to stop, it is time to help, it is time to act and it is already too late.
in writing. thousands of people demonstrated last week in antakya (formerly syrian antioch), in the province of hatay, turkey. they have protested against foreign intervention in neighboring syria and accused the government in ankara of supporting armed groups. this is news that conveniently falls outside the mainstream media agenda. news that shows that more and more people are rejecting and condemning the support of the western powers, colluding with the dictatorships in the region, to the armed gangs that sow death and destruction in syria. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. it is against this intervention that all peace-loving people are mobilizing today. all those who denounce and reject the aggressive and destructive agenda of imperialism. a danger that yes! for peace and stability in the region and the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, as commissioner füle just said, asset recovery cannot be done overnight. but the eu has simply not done enough to help tunisia, libya and egypt recover the billions in assets that their former corrupt regimes stole and stashed away in financial centres in our member states. tunisia has launched over 65 legal cases in courts around the world, and until the recovery of usd 29 million from lebanon in april of this year – a mere drop in the ocean of what the ben ali regime is estimated to have looted – tunisia had yet to recover a single cent. egypt is in turmoil, and this is exacerbated by the economic crisis in the country, widespread poverty and the expectations of their population that recovery of those assets could help meet. after 42 years of systematic institutional dismantling and a kleptocracy of unprecedented proportions, the libyan authorities are trying to make sense of the colossal volume of assets gaddafi spread around the world. these countries are facing layer upon layer of bank secrecy and ambiguous ownership structures that protect dictators’ ill-gotten riches: a seemingly endless queue of obstructions and appeals, often by parties acting erroneously on behalf of the ousted officials. whereas the swiss are being heralded for aiding the authorities of these countries, our own member states are failing to show the political willingness which is crucial to this process. stable communication channels are also essential here. the g8 created the action plan on asset recovery within the deauville partnership which has led to real action. like the meeting of the arab forum on asset recovery and the publishing of national guides on seeking assistance, the star initiative of the world bank and unodc does crucial work in this respect in disseminating information and best practice. has anyone seen the european union at work here – despite the fact that alerts were transmitted by the special representative for the southern mediterranean, mr bernardino león, to our committee on foreign affairs in the joint meeting we had with national parliaments in cyprus in september last year? for the sake of our credibility in the region – and in our own critical strategic interest – it is critical that the eu now takes action in assisting its partners in this process, as we propose in the resolution to be adopted following this debate. i am proud to have steered this process on behalf of my political group and very much want to thank the other groups for their valuable contributions. i would like to say now that we count on the high representative and vice-president to ensure that the external instruments will finance an expert mechanism to begin working as soon as possible on facilitating and advising the authorities of these countries. this is not a flash-in-the-pan concept either; this will be a sustainable mechanism which can evolve into co-financing in the future and serve other partner countries as well.
madam president, speaking about confiscation and asset recovery in europe is the same as speaking about our own credibility and reputation. we did the right thing when we confiscated these assets. now we need caution and an adequate legal framework, bilateral judicial mechanisms and specific member state judicial sentences. we need transparency and coordination, as asset recovery is a member state competence. so i welcome the obligation to set up or designate national asset recovery offices. the countries of the arab spring need urgent investment in money and flows to solve their extremely hard economic problems and severe, fragile social conditions. experience shows that recovering assets may take about seven years. let us not waste time. we must keep the pressure on our governments to accelerate these complex processes. then we need a better use of the recovered assets, targeting them at the sectors that bring more benefits to the victims of corruption, which are always the poorest and most unprotected social classes.
i would also like to stress one aspect which has already been dealt with here, namely the question of the external debt of the countries we are talking about, tunisia, egypt and libya, which was declared, by a resolution adopted in this parliament about a year ago, to be an odious debt. a hateful debt because it was incurred by dictatorial regimes that oppressed their populations and whose leaders made a personal enrichment and, at the same time, also incurred debt by purchasing weapons, these regimes that were often supported by the european union. in fact, the external debt of most of these countries far exceeds the amount of assets that have been frozen and which obviously have to be returned to these countries. the european union may have experts to study the transfer of these assets, but the people are moving faster than the states and, in fact, in these countries a process of citizen audit of debts is already under way. it is already happening: citizens are already looking to audit the debt to come and declare what part of the debt is illegitimate and what is odious.
madam president, commissioner, minister, the first objective of this resolution is to support unequivocally the opening of negotiations for a trade and investment agreement with the united states of america. all the existing studies and analyses show the big gains in terms of growth and employment. an ambitious and comprehensive agreement with the united states could be a powerful, if not cheap, stimulus to our economies and we need it. i think that this resolution, which is, with one exception, the product of a compromise between several political groups, is quite balanced and takes account of the prevailing concerns in this parliament on foreign trade. the resolution refers both to the eu's defensive areas, such as the air and maritime transport sectors, the public procurement market, financial services and geographical indications, to name just the main ones, and to the union's defensive areas, such as food safety, cultural and audiovisual services, the protection of personal data, workers' rights and environmental protection. the european union obviously has little room for manoeuvre in these sensitive areas, but that does not mean, in my view, that they should be excluded from the negotiations at the outset. firstly, because exclusion is not necessary to defend our positions on these sensitive issues, and secondly, because by excluding certain sectors we are giving the united states the same right to exclude what interests it most and what interests us least, of course. thirdly, if we narrow the scope of the negotiation at the outset, there will be less room for the necessary compromises and trade-offs. the ttip, as this agreement is already known, will not be a trade agreement like the others. it is not just a question of removing import duties and reducing existing legal barriers to crossborder provision of services and reciprocal investment. many of the obstacles to trade between the european union and the united states are differences in regulations, technical standards, safety standards, financial supervision rules, to name just a few. what is expected from this agreement is not a deregulatory impulse but progress in regulatory harmonization and compatibility, so as to create a true transatlantic market. the ttip also aims to adopt common rules where they do not exist or are insufficient at global level, such as in relation to investment, export restrictions, energy, etc. the point is to assert leadership as in the regulation of international trade, because if we do not do it now, others will do it without us in the future. by adopting this resolution before the council's decision on the negotiating mandate, the european parliament underlines its readiness to follow this process closely, as is our duty and our right. we also announced in this resolution our decision to strengthen the usual mechanisms of parliamentary scrutiny for this purpose, in particular before and after each round of negotiations. this negotiation is not going to be easy. parliament wants to make a contribution to strengthening the union's negotiating power, to defending our interests and values and to the successful conclusion of this trade agreement.
mr president, this is another of those clarifying debates which may well part the waters. on the one hand, the advocates of free and unregulated trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism that emerged from the washington consensus. they are the promoters of a race to the bottom in terms of social and labour rights, environmental standards and standards for protecting the welfare of the population. they see in the much-touted great transatlantic agreement another opportunity, a golden opportunity to boost this race. on the other hand, we are not opposed to trade, not even trade with the united states. what we are advocating is regulated trade, geared to development objectives, attentive to the specificities of each economy, geared to complementarity and not to competition between countries, products and producers. trade that does not work, as this agreement will if it goes ahead, will result in another attack on the weakest production systems, on labour rights, on consumer rights and on safety and environmental protection.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank the committee on international trade (inta) and its rapporteur, mr zalewski, for this excellent report on the commission’s regulation on financial responsibility for investor-state dispute settlements. this is the third of three pillars of the eu’s investment policy. in this respect, i acknowledge parliament’s own request in april 2011 for the commission to legislate in the area of financial responsibility. turning to the inta report, the commission is, in general terms, ready to accept the bulk of parliament’s amendments, either as drafted or subject to some further work on drafting. we are mainly concerned with those amendments which make it more difficult for the commission to act to defend the union’s interests, in particular some elements of amendments 19, 27, 28 and 30. to give just one example, the commission must be able to act simply when there is a risk to the interpretation of future agreements. adding ‘serious’ makes it more difficult for the commission to act to protect the union’s interests. i raise this point because this regulation gives member states power to defend themselves – and also, effectively, the eu – on the international stage. it means that a member state on its own can offer interpretations of an eu agreement. however, these are no longer individual member state agreements which affect only one member state but agreements concluded at eu level affecting the eu, all the other member states and all eu investors. moreover, interpretation in one case will clearly have an effect on other cases which may involve eu institutions, other member states and eu investors abroad. developments in the council might put this in doubt. we hope that parliament will support the commission in defending the unity of external representation in order to protect eu interests. as i said, this is a very important proposal which will put in place a framework for years to come. while seemingly complex, it involves some key institutional questions which i trust parliament will, like the commission, seek to protect. let me now turn to the oral question. the commission agrees that bilateral and investment treaties (bits) between eu member states do not comply with eu law. they have been challenged before national courts. these proceedings are still pending and there also seems to be widespread agreement among member states that at least a lack of legal certainty persists. all the member states except one have such intra-eu bits in force. commission officials have therefore initiated informal discussions with them with a view to reaching agreement on the joint termination of all these agreements within an agreed time frame. several member states have already agreed bilaterally to terminate their agreements, and the commission has encouraged them to proceed with doing so. however, in those cases where member states are not willing to terminate agreements, the commission is ready to play its role as a guardian of the treaties so as to ensure compliance with eu law. the european court of justice ruled in 2009 that provisions in the bilateral investment agreements of austria, sweden and finland relating to the free transfer of capital were in breach of the eu treaties and did not allow for the application of eu measures on the restriction of capital movements. the member states concerned have been compelled to bring their agreements into compliance with their treaty obligations or to denounce them. the 2012 regulation establishing transitional arrangements for bilateral and investment agreements between member states and third countries specifies that, where an existing investment agreement conflicts with substantive union law, the member state concerned has to request authorisation from the commission to open renegotiation of such an agreement with a view to bringing it into compliance with eu law. when formally authorising the renegotiation of an investment agreement, the commission instructs the member state concerned to amend it to ensure compatibility with substantive union law, in particular through provisions ensuring that nothing in the agreement prevents the member state concerned from fulfilling its obligations under eu law. when the negotiations are over, the member state has to notify the commission of the final outcome of its negotiations and, before authorising its signature, the commission carries out a final verification of whether the conditions established in regulation (eu) no 1219/2012 have been met. under this regulation, member states can also be allowed to negotiate and conclude under certain conditions new bilateral investment agreements with third countries. only agreements which are compatible with eu law can be authorised. this process of authorising member states to negotiate or sign new agreements or to renegotiate existing ones has only just started, with 29 requests so far for authorisation to sign or allow the entry into force of protocols amending existing bits and 36 requests to open negotiations to amend existing bits. the commission is now issuing its first authorisations and we are keeping parliament duly informed. the commission also ensures that eu investment agreements being negotiated at eu level are also fully in line with eu law. a specific reference to this objective is included in the recommendations for negotiating directives which the commission has addressed to council and which have been shared with parliament. let me, finally, reassure you that the level of investment protection afforded by future investment agreements to foreign investors will be in line with general principles common to eu and member state law. there is a broad consensus among eu institutions and all the relevant stakeholders that one of the main objectives of eu investment policy is to provide enhanced legal certainty and a high level of protection for investors in line with the best practices of eu member states. these practices reflect not only fundamental principles of international law but also general principles that are common to the eu and its member states’ legal systems, such as the principles of non-discrimination, the rule of law, access to justice, due process and the obligation to fully compensate in the event of expropriation. these are precisely the main elements and standards that we are covering in the eu investment protection agreements. parliament suggested in its 2011 resolution on the future european international investment policy that the breadth of interpretation left to arbitral tribunals should be reduced in order to increase legal certainty and better protect the public intervention domain. the commission has endorsed this view and is endeavouring to better clarify the content of our investment protection standards without reducing the level of protection, for example by including useful guidance on the practice of arbitral tribunals. as this is a joint debate on some rather detailed issues, i have spoken at length and did so to clarify the rationale for the commission’s proposal. i look forward to parliament’s support.
mr president, trade and investment agreements are an important instrument of economic policy. they are not neutral instruments. depending on their nature and objectives, they may serve development and social progress or they may, on the contrary, serve the accumulation of wealth by large transnational economic groups. these are conflicting and irreconcilable interests. the european union, by its very nature and objectives, is on the side of the multinationals and, having illegitimately acquired exclusive competence in this field with the treaty of lisbon, it intends to restrict any possibility of pursuing a different course. it is a problem which must be solved, sooner rather than later, by reversing this and other provisions of a treaty which has escaped the democratic scrutiny of the people. if the needs of different economies are different, because their development stage is different, their investment needs will also be different. and their choices in this and other areas may be different and those choices must be respected.
madam president, commissioner, a few months after the tragic fire in a textile factory in bangladesh, tragic and shocking events are again taking place in that same country, with the deaths of more than a thousand workers as a result of the collapse of a building in which other textile factories were located in the same conditions. i welcome, of course, the measures announced by the government of bangladesh and the agreement that some companies, particularly european ones, have taken to ensure basic safety standards in the more than five thousand textile factories in bangladesh. but these measures and plans have to move from paper to the ground and companies have to actually implement, respect their obligations in terms of corporate social responsibility. the union cannot simply continue to ensure that bangladesh and other countries benefit from the most generous trade preferences that the union confers if that country and other countries continue to systematically violate the most elementary obligations that those preferences imply. and the union cannot continue to allow european companies to profit unscrupulously from the appalling working conditions in those countries, and we can continue to import garments made at the expense of the dignity, life and blood of bangladeshi workers.
mr president, commissioner, the tragedy in bangladesh is fuelling a long-known problem: that of inhumane working conditions and extreme exploitation in the supply chain of multinationals supplying the european market. it's another few thousand lives taken at the altar of global capitalism. the country is the world's second largest textile producer, with almost 90% of production going to europe, the united states and canada. the dhaka region has been reconfigured by the proliferation of factory units operating in unsanitary spaces, in subcontracting regimes, with miserable wages, 30 euros a month, denying the most basic labor rights. there are about 100,000 factories in the capital region alone, and there are questions that cannot be left unanswered: what action will the european union take against the companies that profit from the persistence of this situation? what mechanisms will you put in place for imports of products of this origin?
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the commission submitted the proposal for the regulation establishing the community customs code at a time when the legislative procedure could not be completed in time for the adoption of the regulation. as a consequence, this would create legal uncertainty as regards the customs duties currently applicable and would thus be an obstacle to maintaining a consistent community legal framework for customs matters. i therefore agree with the proposal set out in this report: in order to avoid difficulties in the customs legislation, it is suggested that the date for its application be postponed by approximately 5 months.
in writing. − the recast of the union customs code (ucc) aims to adapt certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 to developments in customs legislation and other relevant legislation, and to align the regulation with the procedural requirements arising from the treaty of lisbon. it is therefore essential that the ucc is implemented and applied in a uniform manner across the 27 member states, preserving the fundamental spirit of pan-european e-customs. the status of authorised economic operator should allow compliant and eligible economic operators to take full advantage of the widespread use of simplification. the criterion for applying the rules of origin and the criterion for applying the preferential origin of goods are essential elements which must be explicitly indicated in the basic act. the lodging of an entry summary declaration for goods is a precondition for importing goods into the eu. the customs union is an essential element for the functioning of the single market and the single market will only function properly if there is a common and consistent application of modern common customs rules and systems. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i fully support my colleague's decision to invite the european commission to submit a new proposal on this subject.
in writing. − the community customs code (ccc), incorporated in regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2008, entered into force on 24 june 2008 and was intended to adapt customs legislation to the technological innovations of electronic customs and trade, while regulating and simplifying this commercial space. according to article 122 (2), its applicability depended on the implementation of its provisions, but it should take place at the latest 5 years after its entry into force, i.e. 24 june 2013. on 20 february 2012, the commission submitted to the ep and the council a proposal to revise the cwc with a view to its repeal before the planned date of application. as it is necessary to postpone the date of application of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 in order to allow administrations and economic operators to update their electronic systems, to bring them into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon as regards the commission's powers with regard to delegated or implementing acts, and to amend the provisions which have proved inapplicable, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mrs constance le grip.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 450/2008 establishing the community customs code (modernised customs code) entered into force on 24 june 2008, but in accordance with article 188 (2) it will only apply when its implementing provisions are in force, at the latest on 24 june 2013. however, as the ordinary legislative procedure on the recast of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 will not be completed before its entry into force (24 june 2013), this report seeks to request the postponement of the date of application of the regulation to 1 november 2013. the failure to postpone the date of 24 june will create a legal vacuum, because on that date regulation (eec) no 2913/92, currently in force, would be repealed. this would create legal uncertainty about customs legislation. furthermore, regulation (ec) no 450/2008 would become applicable on 24 june 2013 without any commission acts in force to support its application and without the necessary it developments to ensure compliance with the principle of the use of electronic means of data processing. this is essentially a technical matter. we voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2008 laying down the community customs code (modernised customs code) was intended to adapt customs legislation to allow it not only to adapt to the electronic environment of customs and trade but also to regulate this space. at the same time, it has enabled a thorough review of customs rules in order to simplify and structure them more rigorously. this regulation entered into force on 24 june 2008, but in accordance with article 188 (2) it will only become applicable when its implementing provisions are in force, at the latest on 24 june 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the date of application of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 (community customs code (modernised customs code)), provided for in the second subparagraph of article 188 (2), in view of the need to give the legislator sufficient time to complete the process of adopting the new union customs code, thus avoiding the legal uncertainty of a legal vacuum between expiry and the adoption of the next legal instrument.
in writing. − the community customs code was established by regulation (ec) no 450/2008 which organises customs legislation, in particular by regulating the electronic environment of customs and trade. in accordance with article 188 (2), the regulation will only become applicable when its implementing provisions are in force, but no later than 24 june 2013. on 20 february 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation (establishing the union customs code, as a recast of regulation (ec) no 450/2008) to repeal and replace it before the date of intended application. the delay in the date of application of the regulation is due to the need to give administrations and economic operators sufficient time to make the necessary investments and to implement electronic procedures in a realistic manner. for these reasons, and as a contingency plan to avoid legal difficulties, the commission proposes to postpone the date of application of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 in order to gain sufficient time to complete the process of adopting the new union customs code. i think that the justification given is relevant and i voted in favour of the new date of application.
in writing. the european commission proposes a set of amendments to the union customs code to bring it into line with union law and the treaty of lisbon. the importance of the customs code for the completion of the single market makes it vital that it be adapted to new circumstances. i am voting in favour of this report because of the changes it will bring about and because of the importance it has for the proper functioning of the common market.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2008 laying down the community customs code (modernised customs code) entered into force on 24 june 2008, but in accordance with article 188 (2) it will only apply when its implementing provisions are in force, at the latest on 24 june 2013. regulation (ec) no 450/2008 is intended to replace council regulation (eec) no 2913/92 of 12 october 1992 establishing the community customs code. however, as the ordinary legislative procedure on the recast of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 will not be completed before its entry into force (24 june 2013), this report seeks to request the postponement of the date of application of the regulation to 1 november 2013. the failure to postpone the date of 24 june will create a legal vacuum, because on that date regulation (eec) no 2913/92, currently in force, would be repealed. this would create legal uncertainty about customs legislation. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the european commission concludes that the tariff preferences should be re-established in accordance with the current gsp regulation. myanmar/burma, as a least developed country, would consequently have duty-free access without quota limit to all products except arms and ammunition ('everything but arms'). the proposal concerns preferences in 2012 and 2013 only. as from 1 january 2014, preferences shall be granted in accordance with regulation (eu) no 978/2012 of the european parliament and of the council. the legal requirements have been met, which allows the preferences to be re-established. however, despite some progress, burma has not yet abolished forced labour. unpaid forced labour practices, mostly carried out by the military, are still prevalent in multiple regions of the country, according to several reliable reports. there are no strict sanctions yet for military or civilian offenders. i therefore believe that the commission should continue to monitor developments in myanmar/burma and to react to them in accordance with the procedures in force.
in writing. - i agree with the european commission report, which concludes that myanmar/burma, as a ldc (least developed country), would have access to all products except arms and ammunition. once the legal requirements have been met, the preferences may be re-established. however, the commission should continue to monitor the evolution of the situation in myanmar/burma with regard to forced labour and to react to that evolution in accordance with the procedures in place, including, if necessary, through renewed suspension procedures.
in writing. − as a result of serious and systematic forced labour practices in burma, in clear violation of the international labour organisation (ilo) convention, the european union temporarily suspended burma's access to the generalised system of preferences in 1997. the efforts made by the burmese authorities since 2011 towards greater openness and reforms, including in the field of forced labour, have been recognised by the ilo. and in june 2012, the union proposes to lift the suspension imposed on burma. i shall vote in favour of this report. but i think that progress in burma is still sluggish and that we are facing a country of fragile balances. i therefore believe that the union, through the commission, should remain vigilant in monitoring the development of the situation in burma, particularly with regard to forced labour. and that the union should maintain its capacity to react swiftly to the evolution of the direction of reforms in burma, including, if necessary, renewing the suspension procedure.
in writing. - although still precarious, progress is evident in burma towards stabilising the country and establishing a genuine rule of law. it is right to highlight the courageous role played by the president of the republic and the opposition leader aung san suu kyi. serious issues such as those concerning the muslim minority and the freedom of the political system remain unresolved. after several decades of closure and international sanctions, i believe the european union is right to recognise the burmese effort and to consider that it justifies the re-establishment of the benefit of the generalized tariff preferences. this must be done in conjunction with a strict monitoring of the country's working conditions and with the maintenance of the same standards as those which characterise the european union's positions and policies. i hope that burma will live up to the trust placed in it by the union and its member states and fully reintegrate into the international community as a free, just and prosperous nation.
in writing. − the eu, in order to support developing countries, has implemented a system which guarantees the export of products to the eu by paying reduced duties. this system is known as the "generalised system of preferences". the lack of democracy and human rights violations in burma have been condemned by the ep 'due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour', confirmed by the ilo, which led the eu, through council regulation (ec) no 552/97, to temporarily suspend myanmar's access to the tariff preferences system. under that regulation, the suspension may be terminated provided that the commission submits a report demonstrating that the practices which gave rise to the suspension have been changed. considering that cit lifted on 13 june 2012 restrictions preventing the government of myanmar/burma from receiving cooperation and technical assistance from the ilo, and taking into account the ec report that considers that the violations cannot be considered to be 'serious and systematic', i voted in favour of this report proposing the repeal of council regulation (ec) no 552/97 as of 13 june 2012, which temporarily suspended the benefit of the tariff preferences of myanmar/burma.
in writing. − myanmar's access to eu tariff preferences (gsp) was temporarily suspended in 1997 due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour, confirmed by the international labour organisation (ilo) in a special procedure of its commission of inquiry. it was then determined that the temporary suspension should end following a report from the commission demonstrating that the practices leading to that suspension have ceased. in june 2012, the international labour conference (ilc) lifted the restrictions excluding the government of myanmar/burma from receiving technical cooperation and assistance from the ilo and suspended for a period of one year the ilo's request to its members to review their relations with myanmar/burma with a view to ensuring that forced labour is not used in the framework of those relations. the european commission now concludes that the violations cannot be considered as serious and systematic anymore, which means that the tariff preferences should be re-established, in accordance with the current gsp regulation. despite the progress made, doubts remain on the question of forced labour, among others, reinforced by the complaints of some trade unions, which has given rise to reservations in our group about the reintroduction of gsp preferences.
in writing. − since 1971, the eu has granted non-reciprocal trade preferences to developing countries, ensuring that exporters from these countries pay lower duties on some or all of the products they export to the eu. this gives them vital access to eu markets, which contributes to the growth of their economies. this system is known as the "generalised system of preferences". this system had been suspended for myanmar/burma due to the widespread practice of forced labour in that country. however, efforts made by myanmar/burma in this regard may lead to the re-establishment of the generalized system of preferences for that country.
in writing. − myanmar/burma's access to gsp tariff preferences was temporarily suspended in 1997 by council regulation (ec) no 552/97 due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour, confirmed by the international labour organisation in a special procedure of its committee of inquiry. however, a new report by the ilo commission of inquiry has shown that the practices leading to such suspension have now ceased, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union's generalised system of preferences (gsp) offers developing countries a reduction in customs duties, i.e. trade preferences for exporters from these countries, ensuring that they pay lower duties on some or all of the products exported to the european market. the objective of this policy is to contribute to a better integration of the beneficiary countries into world trade and thus to contribute to their economic development, while respecting human rights and the principles of sustainable development. however, serious and systematic violations of the human rights conventions of the united nations (un) and the international labour organisation (ilo) may result in the temporary suspension of preferential arrangements as provided for in regulation (ec) no 552/97. the confirmation in 1997 of the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour in myanmar/burma led to the suspension of the non-reciprocal tariff preferences regime between the republic of myanmar and the eu. since then, the commission has identified genuine efforts to open up and reform the labour market and therefore considers that the conditions for restoring access to the generalized tariff preferences for myanmar/burma are met.
in writing. − the generalized preferences regulation (gsp) with burma/myanmar was suspended in 1997 by the council due to the continued use and practice of forced labour, confirmed by the international labour organisation. however, in view of the gradual change in practice, the commission intends to reinstate the gsp. burma/myanmar is facing a crucial period of transition to democracy. the gsp and the 'everything but arms' mechanism are of the utmost importance for the development of economic activities in this country. however, forced labour still exists and must be completely banned, and the union must therefore continue to monitor this.
in writing. − myanmar's access to eu tariff preferences (gsp) was temporarily suspended in 1997 due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour, confirmed by the international labour organisation (ilo) in a special procedure of its commission of inquiry. it was then determined that the temporary suspension should end following a report from the commission demonstrating that the practices leading to that suspension have ceased. the european commission now concludes that the breaches cannot be considered 'serious and systematic' any longer, which means that the tariff preferences should be reinstated, in accordance with the current gsp regulation. despite the progress made, doubts remain on the question of forced labour, among others, reinforced by the complaints of some trade unions, which has given rise to reservations in our group about the reintroduction of gsp preferences.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the european union, when negotiating investment protection agreements with third countries, including canada, the united states, japan or india and china, allows for an investor dispute settlement mechanism which will allow companies to bring their complaints against the european union in the event of a breach of the key provisions of the agreement. despite the disagreement among member states who want to continue to have more powers in these matters, i believe we should follow the community line, expressing my strong support already now for a stronger role for the commission in defending investor arbitration cases.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has placed foreign direct investment within the eu's common commercial policy, a matter of exclusive eu competence. as we said in the debate, this is a problem which must be solved, sooner rather than later, by overturning this and other provisions of an illegitimate treaty which has escaped the democratic scrutiny of the people. this regulation aims to make the necessary adjustments, taking into account the numerous bilateral investment treaties between eu member states and third countries signed before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. it establishes a framework for the distribution of responsibilities between the eu and the member states in the various conflict situations. the key principle is that the financial responsibility arising from investor-state dispute resolution proceedings should be assigned to the agent who granted dispute settlement. in cases where the treatment in question is granted by the eu institutions, the financial responsibility should lie with the eu institutions. in addition to our principled position against the exclusive competence of the eu in this area, there are several unacceptable provisions in this proposal for a regulation which constrain the member states in defending their legitimate interests by subordinating them to the so-called interests of the union. we know what interests are involved.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the union acquired exclusive competence for the conclusion of international agreements on investment protection. the union is already a party to an agreement on investor-state dispute settlement (the energy charter treaty) and will seek to negotiate such provisions in a number of agreements currently under negotiation or to be negotiated in the future. it is therefore necessary to consider how to manage the financial consequences of such disputes. this regulation aims to establish the framework for the management of those consequences. the central organising principle of this regulation is that the financial responsibility arising from investor-state dispute settlement proceedings should be assigned to the agent who granted the disputed treatment. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the alleged lack of cooperation from the union institutions. in cases where the treatment in question is granted by a member state of the european union, the financial responsibility should lie with that member state.
in writing. - as requested by the rapporteur for the present case, i voted in favour of referring to the committee on international trade the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for the management of financial liability relating to investor-state dispute settlement bodies set up by international agreements to which the european union is a party, in order to initiate a new trilogue.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty gave the union exclusive competence to conclude agreements on investment protection, in particular on foreign direct investment. this is an important instrument for promoting economic and social development. i am in favour of this proposal, which allows the financial responsibility in the event of a dispute and compensation to be shared between the union and the member state responsible.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has placed foreign direct investment within the eu's common commercial policy a matter of the eu's exclusive competence. this regulation aims to make the necessary adjustments, taking into account the numerous bilateral investment treaties between eu member states and third countries signed before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. it establishes a framework for the distribution of responsibilities between the eu and the member states in the various conflict situations. the key principle is that financial responsibility arising from investor-state dispute settlement proceedings should be assigned to the agent who granted dispute settlement. in cases where the treatment in question is granted by the eu institutions, the financial responsibility shall lie with the eu institutions.' in addition to our principled position against the eu's 'exclusive competence' in this area, there are several unacceptable provisions in this proposal for a regulation which constrain the member states in defending their legitimate interests by subordinating them to the so-called 'interests of the union'.
in writing. - i approve this report, particularly in view of the new structure of the following parts of the regulation: each section first lists the required format of its identification document according to the type of animal and the type of non-commercial movement (between member states or on arrival from third countries); then it mentions all relevant information to be completed by a veterinarian. all sections are completed with a summary of the procedure to be followed by a veterinarian in order for the identification document to be duly completed. i also think it is important to suggest some additional information to improve the identification of the animal concerned and to prevent the falsification of identification documents. where possible, the provisions or requirements necessary to comply with a particular article should be clearly specified, rather than cross-references to other articles in this regulation. i also agree with the decision to include a template for each type of identification document, so that it is no longer necessary to search and read numerous subsequent legal acts in order to identify the correct configuration.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 998/2003, which the commission proposes to replace, lays down harmonised rules for the non-commercial movement of pet animals within the eu and for their entry into the eu. it also provides for a transitional regime allowing some member states to impose more restrictive conditions for certain specific diseases. given the importance of the free movement of pet animals within the european union, i reiterate, however, my conviction that it is essential that they meet all the health conditions so that they do not pose risks to human or animal health.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by mr horst schnellhardt, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the non-commercial movement of pet animals. the movement of pet animals has been regulated since 2003 by regulation (ec) no 998/2003 and subsequent amendments. however, in recent years, pet movements have undergone changes. the commission and the member states have carried out successful rabies vaccination campaigns, which suggests that rabies is now in principle extinct in many regions of the union. it is still important to ensure a high level of safety with regard to potential risks to public and animal health, while at the same time making life easier for pet owners who wish to travel with their animals in the european union or in third countries. i also think it is important to combat the fraudulent and disguised non-commercial movement of dogs, cats and sometimes ferrets for commercial purposes, in order to circumvent the application of stricter rules on the marketing and import of these animals.
in writing. − the main objective of the proposed regulation is to make life easier for pet owners who wish to travel with their animals in the european union or in third countries, taking into account a high level of safety with regard to potential risks to public and animal health. one of the inherent concerns is the alleged commercial movement of dogs, cats and sometimes ferrets, often fraudulently disguised as non-commercial movement in order to circumvent the application of stricter rules and hence a maximum of five animals per traveller. the current provisions allow member states to grant special derogations from the mandatory rabies vaccination for dogs, cats and ferrets less than three months old, since it is veterinary inadvisable to vaccinate these young animals. however, there are uncertainties regarding the time between vaccination and full immunisation, raising concerns when travelling with animals less than 12 weeks of age. some additional information is also suggested to improve the identification of the animal concerned and to better prevent the falsification of identification documents. we voted in favour.
in writing. − this proposal repeals and replaces regulation (ec) no 998/2003 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the animal health requirements governing the non-commercial movement of pet animals and amending council directive 92/65/eec. it lays down the animal health conditions to be observed in the case of non-commercial movements of pet animals into a member state from another member state or from third countries and the rules for the control of such movements. it aims to ensure a sufficient level of safety with regard to the risks to public and animal health involved in such non-commercial movements and to remove any unjustified obstacles to such movements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to regulation (ec) no 998/2003 and subsequent amendments. several situations required an update of the scheme. in addition to the necessary alignment with the lisbon treaty, the movement of pet animals was regulated in 2003 and the environment for the movement of pet animals has undergone major changes: the commission and the member states, among others, have carried out successful rabies vaccination campaigns, which leads to the view, in principle, that rabies is now extinct in many regions of the union, although, as always, continuous surveillance is required.
in writing. − the rules on the movement of pet animals are the public health guarantor for pet owners who wish to travel with their animals in the european union. the revision of the current regulation (ec) no 998/2003 is linked to the end of another transitional regime and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which requires the full alignment and adaptation of the old comitology measures to the new articles 290 and 291 tfeu. the rapporteur has made efforts to restructure the regulation in order to achieve improvements in the readability and clarity of the commission proposal. for the reasons mentioned above, i have approved this new wording, hoping that it will result in the clear and unambiguous application of the regulation.
in writing. − the movement of pet animals in the union has been regulated since 2003, but due to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the end of transitional arrangements, alignment of regulation (ec) no 998/2003 is necessary. this report is thus intended to make life easier for pet owners while maintaining a high level of safety for public and animal health. the rapporteur therefore puts forward a set of proposals aimed at bringing legal clarity and transparency to the legislation, also with a view to reducing fraudulent cases. for the reasons i have given, i am in favour of the report.
in writing. − the main objective of the proposed regulation is to make life easier for pet owners who wish to travel with their animals in the european union or in third countries, taking into account a high level of safety with regard to potential risks to public and animal health. one of the inherent concerns is the alleged commercial movement of dogs, cats and sometimes ferrets, often fraudulently disguised as non-commercial movement in order to circumvent the application of stricter rules and hence a maximum of five animals per traveller. some additional information is also suggested to improve the identification of the animal concerned and to better prevent the falsification of identification documents. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that its aim is to amend the community regulation on the transport of animals, semen and embryos. this is justified by the reason that operators find it difficult to comply with the requirements set out in the directive requiring a clinical examination of animals 24 hours before their departure. the proposed amendment changes the time limit to 48 hours, in line with the recommendations of the world organisation for animal health.
in writing. − the proposed amendments to council directive 92/65/eec as regards the animal health requirements governing trade in and imports into the union of dogs, cats and ferrets are essentially technical in nature, seeking to adapt the directive to the new non-commercial movement of pet animals regulation. i am voting in favour of the proposal now under discussion.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by mr horst schnellhardt, concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 92/65/eec as regards the animal health requirements governing trade in and imports into the european union of dogs, cats and ferrets. this concerns the period of time before transport during which the animals must undergo a clinical examination by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority to confirm that the animals are fit to undertake the intended journey. in this respect, i think it is appropriate to follow the recommendation of the world organisation for animal health which proposes a change from 24 hours to 48 hours, harmonizing the period before transport of dogs, cats and ferrets.
in writing. the report approves the amendment to the directive laying down the animal health conditions governing trade in and imports of animals, semen, ova and embryos not subject to other specific regulations, in particular as regards the animal health requirements for dogs, cats and ferrets. we are faced with three categories of proposed amendments, some of them purely technical, replacing the references to regulation (ec) no 998/2003 which is to be repealed, and replacing them with references to the new regulation. others add a reference to regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport, as these are related matters. and lastly, and the only one relevant in terms of content, it concerns the period of time, before transport, during which the animals must undergo a clinical examination, carried out by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority, in order to confirm that the animals are fit to undertake the intended journey. it is proposed that the current 24-hour period be changed to 48 hours in accordance with the recommendation of the world organisation for animal health. we agreed that the best standards of animal health and welfare should be applied and that they should be linked to human welfare and public health, and we voted in favour.
in writing. - the proposal aims to amend council directive 92/65/eec of 13 july 1992 laying down animal health requirements governing trade in and imports into the community of animals, semen, ova and embryos not subject to animal health requirements laid down in specific community rules referred to in annex a (i) to directive 90/425/eec. the main aspect to be changed should be the current 24-hour period before transport during which animals must undergo a clinical examination by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority to confirm that the animals are fit to undertake the intended journey. it is proposed that the current 24-hour period be aligned with the 48-hour recommendation of the world organisation for animal health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to bring the period of time before transport during which animals must undergo a clinical examination by a veterinarian authorized by the competent authority to confirm that the animals are fit to undertake the intended journey into line with the recommendation of the world organisation for animal health.
in writing. - in terms of content, the only relevant amendment to be introduced to the existing legislation by this european parliament report concerns the period of quarantine and clinical observation, conducted by one of the veterinarians authorised by the competent authorities to confirm the good condition of dogs, cats and ferrets intended to be marketed or imported into the eu. in particular, it is proposed to adjust the current 24-hour period to the 48-hour quarantine period suggested by the world organisation for animal health. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report on animal health requirements governing trade in dogs, cats and ferrets is a purely technical document. the rapporteur has tabled only three categories of amendments which were adopted without much disagreement. i would just like to stress the proposed amendment on the period of time from 24 hours to 48 hours before transport during which animals must undergo a clinical examination by a competent authority to certify their fitness to travel. i am therefore in favour of these amendments.
in writing. the report approves the amendment to the directive laying down the animal health conditions governing trade in and imports of animals, semen, ova and embryos not subject to other specific regulations, in particular as regards the animal health requirements for dogs, cats and ferrets. these are three categories of proposed amendments, some purely technical, replacing the references to regulation (ec) no 998/2003, which is to be repealed, and replacing them with references to the new regulation. others add a reference to regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport, as they are related matters. the last, and the only one relevant in terms of content, concerns the period of time, before transport, during which the animals must undergo a clinical examination, carried out by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority, in order to confirm that the animals are fit to undertake the intended journey. it is proposed that the current 24-hour period be changed to 48 hours in accordance with the recommendation of the world organisation for animal health. we voted yes.
in writing. - this resolution follows the european commission's communication on ex ante coordination of the plans for major economic policy reforms in the eu published on 20 march. attention is drawn to the need to implement economic reforms in the member states (ms) that promote sustained economic growth. these reforms must be coordinated, contribute to the prosperity of the countries where they are implemented, foster positive synergies in all other ems and be based on solidarity and cohesion mechanisms. in the legislative proposals on economic coordination, the involvement of the social partners and the involvement of national and european parliaments are also fundamental and mechanisms should be created to integrate all member states into these processes. the european commission's proposed competitiveness and convergence instrument should take account of the needs of each member state and be designed around strategies for long-term sustainable growth and reducing disparities, based on budgetary capacity made available for this purpose. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled following a question for oral answer by mrs sharon bowles on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, concerns the future legislative proposals relating to economic and monetary union and follows the european commission's communication on the ex ante coordination of plans for major economic policy reforms in the european union (eu) published on 20 march. the economic and financial crisis has led to an economic reorganisation of the european union, including the integration of economic, budgetary and structural policy surveillance into the european semester, which has contributed to a stronger economic and monetary union (emu) that stimulates competitiveness, economic growth and job creation, as well as social cohesion and economic convergence. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the new supervisory framework must take into account the specificities of each member state, despite the requirement that 'national plans for major economic policy reforms be assessed and discussed at eu level before final decisions are taken at national level', thus ensuring that they meet the european dimension of the necessary reforms.
in writing. - this strengthening of emu seriously undermines democracy and effective citizen participation. the process of adopting and ratifying the so-called budgetary treaty is shown. this situation requires the defence of sovereignty and the full exercise of their respective roles by the national institutions, not their devaluation or the transfer of their powers to the supranational eu institutions. this is what we have proposed in the amendments which, significantly, have been rejected by the majority. as always in this process of integration, each new step seeks to legitimize the previous one and justify the next one. all on the backs of the citizens, dealing with their will, their desires and aspirations, if necessary. we reject all impositions, conditions and restrictions which violate the sovereign right of peoples to decide their economic policies. we demand a radical change in the ecb's statutes and policy, as well as its pseudo-independence, ensuring equal participation of the member states in its administration, guaranteeing its effective control by the latter, and the ability of each member state to control its national central bank and its monetary policy, in order to promote economic growth and employment. only in this way will the peoples be able to build their economic and social development without any conditions. we obviously voted against this resolution.
in writing. − the commission's efforts to continue the progress made in the area of the union's macroeconomic governance, on the basis of the '6-pack' and '2-pack', are well known. full implementation of the new framework should take priority over any new proposal. i believe that the creation of an incentive-based enforcement mechanism aimed at increasing solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness should be accompanied by additional levels of economic policy coordination, as indicated in the commission statement accompanying the '2-pack'.
in writing. - this resolution follows the european commission's communication on ex ante coordination of the plans for major economic policy reforms in the eu published on 20 march. parliament expressed its opinion, drawing attention to the need to implement economic reforms in the member states (ms) that promote sustained economic growth. however, these reforms must be coordinated, contribute to the prosperity of the countries where they are implemented, foster positive synergies in all other ems, and be based on solidarity and cohesion mechanisms. in the legislative proposals on economic coordination, the involvement of the social partners and the involvement of national and european parliaments are also fundamental and mechanisms should be created to integrate all member states into these processes. the commission's proposal for a competitiveness and convergence instrument must take account of the needs of each member state and be designed around strategies for long-term sustainable growth and the reduction of disparities, based on budgetary capacity made available for this purpose. in view of the overriding respect for the principle of subsidiarity, for eu law and for the guarantee of increased social welfare for the citizens of the union, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - this resolution follows the european commission's communication on ex ante coordination of the plans for major economic policy reforms in the eu published on 20 march. attention is drawn to the need to implement economic reforms in the member states that promote sustained economic growth. these reforms must be coordinated, contribute to the prosperity of the countries where they are implemented, foster positive synergies in all other ems, and be based on solidarity and cohesion mechanisms. in the legislative proposals on economic coordination, the involvement of the social partners and the involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments are also fundamental and mechanisms should be set up to integrate all member states into these processes. the european commission's proposed competitiveness and convergence instrument should take account of the needs of each member state and be designed around strategies for long-term sustainable growth and reducing disparities, based on budgetary capacity made available for this purpose. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i am in favour of the creation of economic and monetary union and voted in favour of this report. i believe that it is essential to increase confidence in the financial and banking sector because supervision will be strengthened for all banks and to ensure greater stability of the markets which will make the system more independent of the contagion of debts and crises of the states. i would also stress that the existence of more stable and healthy banks will enable businesses and households to have easier access to bank loans, and thus encourage investment or private consumption.
in writing. the euro is confirmed at every step as a strategic instrument of domination by big capital and the main european capitalist powers, an instrument at the service of the exploitation of workers and peoples and the deepening of the conditions of profitability of capital. the strengthening of emu, as advocated by the council, the commission and the majority of the ep, seriously undermines democracy and the effective participation of citizens. this situation requires the defence of sovereignty and the full exercise of their respective roles by the national institutions, not their devaluation or the transfer of their powers to the supranational eu institutions. we reject all impositions, conditions and restrictions which violate the sovereign right of peoples to decide their economic policies. we demand a radical change in the ecb's statutes and policy, as well as its pseudo-independence, ensuring equal participation of the member states in its administration, guaranteeing its effective control by the latter, and the ability of each member state to control its national central bank and its monetary policy, in order to promote economic growth and employment. only in this way will the peoples be able to build their economic and social development without any conditions.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by welcoming the huge humanitarian aid operation to which international and local organisations are contributing under the auspices of the ocha and the unhcr, and pay tribute to all international and local humanitarian and health workers for their courage and perseverance, calling on the eu and the international community to strengthen the protection of civilians, including humanitarian workers and medical personnel. the international community must find a solution to the persistent problems of lack of security and public order in the refugee camps, including by creating a new security field initiative, and i therefore urge all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law and to facilitate humanitarian access to enable aid workers inside and outside the country to respond to the growing needs.
in writing. - the situation of civil war in syria has led, in addition to the deaths and injuries which we must deeply regret, to the forced displacement of many syrian citizens who have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. their situation is worrying and calls for solidarity not only from the host states of these victims but also from all those who cannot remain indifferent to the repeated violations of human rights in syria and the harsh reality of the deprivations to which refugees are subjected. the european union should take a leading role in this regard and seek to address the most pressing needs of refugees and internally displaced persons by working with neighbouring states to find the best solutions and best practices to maximise the effects of available resources and to put them at the service of those who have the least and need them most. i hope that the commitment of the international community will allow a speedy resolution of this conflict, which continues to shock us with its brutality and cruelty.
in writing. - the humanitarian crisis in syria is a catastrophe of concern to all. there are thousands of civilians in a dead end. over three hundred thousand syrians dead and a million and a half in refugee camps. this is a dark page in world history that must be closed. violence is violence everywhere in the world and we cannot remain indifferent to the atrocities that come to our attention. the joint motion for a resolution deals with the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. the civil war in syria started unilaterally but has taken on much broader dimensions, creating a humanitarian crisis that involves millions of refugees, mostly women and children, living in inhumane conditions. because we cannot tolerate human rights violations such as the sale of women and girls to saudi elders for 2 500 euros, we must demand the creation of a security corridor to enable the necessary humanitarian aid to be provided and demonstrate unconditional solidarity. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and i hope that it will be a wake-up call to the international community.
in writing. - this resolution does not once refer to the interference or violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of syria by the us and other nato and eu powers in alliance with the monarchical dictatorships of the persian gulf. these powers arm, train and finance the terrorist groups operating in syria under the guise of opposition. they have not once referred to - let alone condemned - the attacks by israeli and turkish military forces in syria, which represent a new and clear violation of international law and the un charter. in syria, as in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan, or more recently libya, they refer to widespread violations and crimes against humanity, concealing the role of foreign aggressors. media warfare is also used to promote open aggression in syria and escalation of conflict in the middle east. we join our group in defending the end of all external intervention in defence of sovereignty, independence and peace in syria and the region. and we advocate a political solution to the conflict, insisting that the syrian people decide the future of the country, free from any outside interference.
in writing. - the current humanitarian crisis in syria and the implications for neighbouring countries are unacceptable. it is regrettable that the flow of refugees from syria continues to increase. i condemn the brutality and atrocities perpetrated by the syrian regime against the population of the country and express my deep concern at the gravity of the widespread and systematic violations of human rights and the possible crimes against humanity authorised and/or perpetrated by the syrian authorities, the armed and security forces and militias loyal to the regime. the extrajudicial executions and all other forms of human rights violations committed by groups and forces opposed to the regime of president assad are also to be condemned at all levels. everyone must make an effort to find a solution to the crisis in syria, a solution which will always have to involve the removal of president assad from power.
in writing. - the civil war in syria continues with the perpetuation of conflicts between forces loyal to the regime and those opposed to it. the conflict began on 15 march 2011, with popular demonstrations that spread across the country. in april 2011, the syrian army was called in to quell the uprising. after months of military siege, the protests have evolved into an armed rebellion, which integrates this body of opposition forces deserted soldiers and civilian volunteers. violence against protesters continues despite condemnation from the international community, including the eu. according to the united nations, the conflict is openly sectarian in nature, pitting the minority alawite sect, a shiite branch from which president assad and his top political and military cadres descend, against the country's sunni majority, aligned with the opposition. in the context of a civil war which is claiming thousands of lives and leaving thousands of refugees in need of humanitarian assistance, this motion for a resolution calls on the member states and the international community to urgently establish accountability mechanisms to ensure that the funds promised are allocated to the beneficiaries designated at the kuwait donors' conference.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that, according to united nations figures, since the beginning of the conflict in syria in march 2011, at least 80 000 people, mostly civilians, have been killed and that, as of may 2013, more than 1.2 million people from syria were registered as refugees in the region, while another 230 000 people are awaiting such recognition (a number which is very likely to continue to increase), i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution. in this resolution, parliament drew attention to the serious humanitarian crisis which could spread to syria's neighbours and supported international calls for an international peace conference.
in writing. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. not once do they refer to the attacks by the israeli and turkish military forces in syria, which represent a new and clear violation of international law and the un charter. in syria, as in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan and more recently libya, they refer to widespread violations and crimes against humanity (never proven and often disproved by the facts), which are uncritically reported by the mainstream media and agencies. for our part, we join our group in defending the end of all external intervention in defence of sovereignty, independence and peace in syria and the region. and we advocate a negotiated end to the civil war and a political solution to the conflict, insisting that the syrian people decide the future of the country, free from any outside interference.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, starting by calling for the urgent establishment of an eu mechanism composed of a team of investigators, prosecutors, lawyers and other experts, with the aim of providing legal and technical advice to the arab spring countries in the process of asset recovery, proposing that this mechanism be appropriately funded by the relevant financial instrument in the framework of the union's external relations and, underlining in this context of complex, delicate and time-consuming legal proceedings, the importance of ensuring the sustainability of this eu mechanism. moreover, i urge the eu institutions to draw lessons from this experience and to use this knowledge in the future. i stress that it is of the utmost importance for the eu to demonstrate its concrete and genuine commitment to this process.
in writing. - i believe that the european union and the member states should work towards the restitution to the legitimate authorities of the arab spring countries of the goods that have been taken from their people by the dictators who have since been overthrown, and that this restitution should seek to safeguard not only the formal legitimacy of the recipients but also the good use of the returned goods and their placing at the service of the populations unjustly deprived of them. if on the european side efforts should be made to list the goods to be returned and to provide applicants for returns with a proper understanding of the formal procedures to be followed for the goods to be returned to be returned, on the arab side serious guarantees should be given that the goods to be returned will be put to proper use. this is not to advocate any time of neo-colonialism or protectorate. the aim is to ensure that europe does not make the same mistakes as in the past with regard to the old regimes and to adopt a position of cooperative but co-responsible partnership with the new authorities. i believe that only this, based on demand and respect, will bear true and lasting fruit.
in writing. - many of the deposed dictators who for years headed some of the arab spring countries have illicitly accumulated large fortunes which they have put in safe-haven in banking institutions in third countries, notably european banks. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure in replacement of the motions for resolutions tabled by the political groups of the european people's party, the socialist group, the european people's party, the greens/efa and the liberal, democratic and reformist group, concerns the recovery of assets for the arab spring countries in transition to democracy. in the face of the arab spring, the european union (eu) froze assets that had been stolen from these countries or illicitly diverted. now the populations, with all justice, want those goods back. i welcome the work that the eu institutions are doing to help these countries in their efforts to recover these assets, including the organisation of a seminar to train experts so that everything is done in a legal way. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and hope that the return of these goods will contribute to economic growth and the establishment of democratic regimes in these countries.
in writing. - the impression that may be given by the reader of this resolution is that the dominant political forces in europe, the european governments, the european right and the european social democrats were not aware of what was happening in these countries, nor were they involved in any way with the dictators and dictatorships in tunisia and egypt. not only did they have, and have been, their accomplices and partners for many years, but they allowed them to safeguard property and other assets, including financial, as soon as they fell out of favor with their people. what happened in egypt and tunisia, with the particularities of each country, were democratic processes, of masses, who aspired and aspire to a profound change in their country and their lives. a change that has not yet been fully realized. the forces and powers, domestic and foreign, who saw their power threatened, reacted. and in the new conditions, they tried to try to keep their domain intact. power takes new forms to impose old policies. the same relationship of dependence on imperialism. but the will of the peoples of these regions to secure their sovereign development has not ceased. it will be the decisive factor in determining the future of these countries and their peoples.
in writing. - i believe that, beyond its economic importance, the restitution of property stolen by former dictators and their regimes to the countries in transition in the arab spring is a moral and legal imperative and a highly political issue, because of its implications in terms of restoring justice and accountability in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law, and it substantiates the political commitment and credibility of the eu, thus constituting an essential element of the union's partnership with its southern neighbours, in particular egypt, libya and tunisia. for the arab spring countries, the recovery of stolen goods is also of economic and social importance, as funds are needed to stabilise economies and create jobs and growth in these countries, which are facing serious economic challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need to improve cooperation between the main actors at national and international level on the supervision of the return of goods and ensuring that returned goods are used in a transparent and effective manner in the requesting countries.
in writing. − the recovery of illicitly acquired assets, currently frozen in a number of third countries, is a lengthy and complex judicial procedure. however, this same recovery of assets, when carried out in a transparent and effective manner, is not only a privileged vehicle for a strong message against the impunity of criminals involved in corruption and money laundering, but also a tool for economic recovery of countries harmed by dictatorial regimes. in the wake of the arab revolution, the european union immediately froze the assets of former dictators and their families and other people associated with the regimes. now is the time to ensure that the assets misappropriated by deposed dictators and their regimes can be returned to the countries concerned. this motion for a resolution aims to raise awareness among the international actors concerned of the need to make significant efforts to achieve the objectives of asset recovery. i voted in favour.
in writing. − beyond its economic importance, the restitution of property stolen by former dictators and their regimes to countries in transition from the arab spring is a moral and legal imperative and a highly political issue, due to its implications in terms of restoring justice and accountability in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law. i also recognize that for the arab spring countries, the recovery of stolen goods is equally of economic and social importance, as funds are needed to stabilise the economies and create jobs and growth in these countries, which are facing serious economic challenges. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the joint resolution by the european parliament.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from the dangers of terrorism and that the eu's citizens are protected from the dangers of terrorism. but they did. anyone reading this resolution might think that a democratic arab spring has actually taken place, that the workers and peoples in struggle in these countries have succeeded in overcoming the power of the oligarchy, linked to the most backward islamism, to the interference of the eu, the usa and other imperialist powers. but they haven't succeeded yet. under new or the same cover, the interference, the promotion of the most backward forces in these countries continues, power takes new forms to impose old policies. anyone who reads the resolution might think that the new power players in these countries have decided to confront the power of imperialism and want back the goods and assets illegitimately stolen from their people. we have the greatest doubts that it is. but we are convinced that the will of the peoples of these regions to secure their economic and social development will prevail.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by strongly reiterating my support for the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina for the benefit of all the citizens of the country. however, i am concerned that there is no common vision on the overall direction of the country among the political elites, which puts bosnia and herzegovina at risk of falling behind the other countries in the region. i welcome the peaceful, free and fair conduct of the local elections, but express concern at the dispute that followed the elections in srebrenica, which must be avoided in the future, and at the fact that municipal elections were not held in mostar. i therefore urge all parties concerned to agree on amendments to the statute of the city of mostar, bringing it into line with a relevant decision of the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina. i call on political leaders and elected representatives to work together and focus on implementing the roadmap as part of the high level dialogue with the commission, thus making it possible to meet the necessary requirements for the stabilisation and association agreement to finally enter into force and allowing a credible application for accession to be submitted.
in writing. - while i am concerned about the lack of a common vision on the way forward for bosnia and herzegovina among its political elites, which puts the country at risk of falling short of the goals to be achieved with a view to future membership of the european union, i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that despite the magnitude of the challenges bosnia and herzegovina has to overcome, they should not be a pretext for lethargy. after being identified as a potential candidate for eu membership in 2003, bosnia and herzegovina's candidate status was confirmed in 2005. this evaluation report on the development of bosnia's application in 2012 points out, however, that the necessary conditions for moving to the next stage of the accession process are still far from being met. the report exposes the inability of the political class, with different ethnic backgrounds, to coordinate efforts to implement policies conducive to the development of the country, in particular, the set of measures that allow for concrete progress in areas related to constitutional reform such as the establishment of the rule of law, judicial reform or principles of good governance.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. the european horizon, the prospect of accession to the european union, is an element with an aggregating potential and capable of giving the still developing bosnian state a reformist dynamic that contributes to its consolidation. the european union can make a very positive contribution to this effort. the much-needed work and the remaining tensions should not prevent the peoples of bosnia and herzegovina from working together to promote, in respect of their respective cultures and traditions, a healthy coexistence and to make institutional changes aimed at achieving the right balance between the necessary functionality of the state and the effective representation and participation of their populations in political decision-making.
in writing. - the european union, despite all the constraints, remains committed to its enlargement to the east, more specifically to the countries of the balkan region. bosnia and herzegovina is one of the candidate countries. the situation in this country has not developed as quickly as it should - although there is some progress as noted by the council in december - but the european agenda is far from being fulfilled, particularly with regard to human rights, leaving it negatively distant from the progress made in other countries in the region. i therefore urge the european authorities to press the bosnian government to respect the judgments of the european court of human rights so that they can benefit from the enormous potential of enlargement as a development factor and a lever for economic growth and job creation. it is imperative that the country be well governed, that children have a bright future and that refugees are allowed to return to their country. i voted in favour of the 2012 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina by my colleague doris pack because i believe that we must continue to press bosnia and herzegovina to carry out the reforms it committed to when it signed its roadmap with the accession criteria.
in writing. - the creation of bosnia-herzegovina, following the destabilisation and war in the balkans, resulted from the dismemberment of the republic of yugoslavia, a process which resulted in thousands of victims and which destroyed the economic structure of yugoslavia. after 14 years, bosnia-herzegovina is still a nato protectorate, as demonstrated by statements made by the un representative for bosnia-herzegovina on 14 may, according to which the european union and nato military missions in the country continue to assure citizens that the country is safe, despite the difficult political situation. the task of ensuring that all sides continue to comply with the dayton peace agreement also remains. after 14 years, the governance of bosnia and herzegovina continues to require an international presence, the eu presence is reinforced, the mandate of the european union multinational stabilisation force (eufor althea), a mission voted by this parliament in november 2004, is renewed. this was the result of the interference of the western powers in the region. the consequences are and will continue to be felt by the populations.
in writing. - bosnia and herzegovina remains committed to eu membership, which would be a great benefit for all its citizens. the holding of peaceful, free and fair local elections was an important step in this direction. however, there are still areas which need to be improved in order to progress towards full membership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2012 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina, which stresses the importance of creating an effective coordination mechanism to improve engagement with the european union.
in writing. − the 2012 commission report recognises bosnia and herzegovina's timid efforts towards its accession to the european union. the deadlines and commitments agreed by bosnia and herzegovina for the implementation of the roadmap as part of the high level dialogue with the commission have not been met. the establishment of a fully democratic state based on the rule of law also requires constitutional reform in accordance with the ruling of the european court of human rights, with the aim of eliminating all discrimination against minorities in the applicant country. commissioner štefan füle insists that no application for eu membership can be considered without the authorities implementing the sejdić and finci judgment, as determined by the echr case law. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which welcomes the allocation of macrofinancial support of eur 100 000 to bosnia-herzegovina to help it to meet its objectives in terms of competition, state aid and a number of issues relating to justice, freedom and defence.
in writing. − the european parliament strongly reiterates in this document its support for the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina for the benefit of all the country's citizens, but expresses concern at the lack of a common vision on the country's general direction by the political elites, which puts bosnia and herzegovina at risk of continuing to fall behind the development of the other countries in the region. i therefore stress the importance of bosnia-herzegovina speaking with one voice in the process of european integration. in this context, parliament urged political leaders and elected representatives to work together and focus on implementing the roadmap as part of the high level dialogue with the commission, thus enabling the necessary requirements to be met for the stabilisation and association agreement to finally enter into force and allowing a credible application for accession to be submitted. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - as we all know, the creation of bosnia-herzegovina was the result of the criminal attack by nato aircraft on the republic of yugoslavia, which caused thousands of victims and devastated the economic structure of yugoslavia. after 14 years, bosnia-herzegovina is still a nato protectorate, as demonstrated by statements made by the un representative for bosnia-herzegovina on 14 may, according to which the european union and nato military missions in the country continue to assure citizens that the country is safe, despite the difficult political situation. the task of ensuring that all sides continue to comply with the dayton peace agreement also remains. after 14 years, the governance of bosnia and herzegovina continues to require an international presence, the eu's presence in rule of law matters is strengthened, the mandate of the european union multinational stabilisation force (eufor althea), a mission voted by this parliament in november 2004, is renewed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the process was anything but sovereign and did not correspond to the interests of the peoples involved. the resolution also confirms that bosnia-herzegovina is still far from the immense social gains made by the peoples of yugoslavia.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, starting by regretting that, for the fourth consecutive year, the council decided, at its last meeting on 11 december 2012, not to follow the commission's recommendation and has not yet started accession negotiations. however, i consider that the european council conclusions, unanimously adopted for a timetable decision and based on a subsequent report from the commission, represent genuine progress, recognising the importance of sufficient progress in key areas as referred to in the december 2012 european council conclusions. i therefore congratulate the commissioner responsible for enlargement on the initiatives taken and ask him to include an assessment of the costs of non-enlargement, addressing the main risks to the country in the event of a prolongation of the status quo in the report he prepares. good neighbourly relations are an essential pillar of the process of accession to the european union and i welcome the overall constructive role that the country plays in relations with other countries in the process of accession.
in writing. the european union reiterates its commitment to the accession of the western balkan countries to the union. and so i begin by regretting that the inability to resolve the name issue is the main obstacle to the country's progress towards future membership of the european union. i am voting in favour of this report and supporting the rapporteur's call on the council to set a date without further delay for the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. - a little over a year ago i wrote that i was not unaware of the problems posed to our greek partners by the name of this country and the obstacle it represents to future accession. i therefore wished that there would be common sense and understanding between the two of us, in accordance with international law, so that when the time comes and all the criteria for accession are met, this will not be an insurmountable obstacle. i repeat my position, considering that macedonia is now in a better position to start accession negotiations and that the council should carefully consider the goodness of the commission's proposal to make it so. i call again on greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to try to overcome their differences and to be able to prove themselves true to the generous and founding european spirit that we all so much need today. and i hope that the european union and the other member states will actively contribute to the success of this convergence.
in writing. - the european union, despite all the constraints, remains committed to its enlargement to the east, more specifically to the countries of the balkan region. among the candidate countries for accession is the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which acquired the status of 'candidate country' in 2005. the situation in this country, unlike bosnia-herzegovina, has been developing favourably. i welcome the progress made in implementing the framework agreement, in particular the involvement of this country in the regional initiatives in the south-west balkans, the good neighbourly relations with greece and bulgaria, and i call on it to continue with the reforms under way in the fight against corruption and the strengthening of the rule of law. because the eu must be a catalyst in the accession process, i call on the european institutions to work together to resolve the name problem so that the accession process can move forward. i voted in favour of the 2012 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia by my colleague richard howitt and i urge the macedonian authorities to move to the next stage of the accession process.
in writing. - as in other republics of the former socialist federal republic of yugoslavia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia remains unstable and is a destabilising factor for the whole region. negotiations with greece on the country's designation are also continuing. a country's accession to the eu must result from a process of sovereign decision-making by its people. it is up to each people to decide freely, without any outside interference and on the basis of a free and thorough debate, which is all the more important since it is known that this condition has not always been met in other accessions. the european union must not be allowed to make a contribution to the development of the yugoslav history by imposing the capitalist political and economic model of the eu. the statement of rejoicing at the efforts of the authorities to disconnect from the communist past is indicative of the primary anti-communism running through the resolution, which ignores the dangerous and undemocratic persecutions of communists and other democrats in the country.
in writing. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, and has been active in the field of the rule of law, including the fight against terrorism. it stresses the importance of continuing the diplomatic contacts between athens, sofia and skopje and the importance of all parties demonstrating a proper commitment to 'good neighbourly relations' based in particular on friendship, mutual respect, constructive dialogue and a genuine desire to resolve misunderstandings and overcome hostilities. only by following this path will it be possible to open accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2012 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i would stress that the country is currently chairing the south east european cooperation process and making its contribution, which i hope will strengthen the european agenda, good neighbourly relations and inclusiveness.
in writing. − the european parliament reiterates its call on the council to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia without further delay, and regrets that for the fourth consecutive year the council decided, at its last meeting on 11 december 2012, not to follow the commission's recommendation and has not yet opened accession negotiations. i would remind you that good neighbourly relations are an essential pillar of the eu accession process and parliament welcomes the overall constructive role that the country plays in relations with other countries. i would also remind you that in the accession process all candidate and potential candidate countries must be treated on the basis of their merits during the integration process. i therefore voted in favour of the document on the 2012 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the european parliament.
in writing. - as in other republics of the former socialist federal republic of yugoslavia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia remains unstable and is a destabilising factor for the whole region. negotiations with greece on the country's designation are continuing. a country's accession to the eu must result from a process of sovereign decision-making by its people. it should be up to each people to make a free decision, without any external interference, on the basis of a free and thorough debate and with knowledge of the true meaning of the criteria required by the eu for a country to become a member, namely the economic criterion and the existence of a market economy, and not the never confirmed myths - as the case of portugal proves - around eu accession. on the other hand, considerations which seek to condition the reading of yugoslav history and thus impose the capitalist political and economic model of the eu, as exemplified by the following quote, are unacceptable: the resolution of the problems which remain in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, 22 years after the declaration of independence, must be resolved by its people, without any outside interference.
in writing. - i support this resolution, considering the strategic importance of economic relations between the eu and the us, which in my view should be reaffirmed and deepened, with a common set of strategic objectives. i also believe it is crucial that the eu and the us tap the untapped potential of a truly integrated transatlantic market in order to maximise the creation of decent jobs and stimulate a smart, robust, sustainable and balanced growth potential, considering that this is particularly timely given the persisting economic crisis, the state of financial markets and financing conditions, the high level of public debt, high unemployment rates and modest growth projections on both sides of the atlantic, and the benefits of a truly coordinated response to these common problems.
in writing. − the european union (eu) and the us are the two largest trading and investment players in the world, accounting together for about half of global gdp and one third of global trade. the full realisation of an ambitious and comprehensive transatlantic trade and investment partnership could bring significant economic gains for the eu (eur 119.2 billion per year) and an increase in european exports to the us of around 28%. it will also create jobs for workers, directly benefit european consumers, open up new opportunities for european companies, in particular smes, ensure full access to the us public procurement market, and improve opportunities for eu investment in the us. the strategic importance of economic relations between the eu and the us must therefore be reaffirmed and deepened. the european parliament looks forward to the opening of negotiations with the us, and the european commission should keep the european parliament fully informed at all stages of the negotiations, with the ep determined to play a proactive role in collaborating with its us counterparts when the new regulation is introduced. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - an agreement between the us and the eu could bring significant economic gains. these amount to €119.2 billion per year for the eu, and the potential increase in eu exports to the us could be in the order of 28%. this represents an undeniably valuable opportunity for the european economy. i fully support the opening of negotiations with a view to this desirable agreement. it must be closely monitored by all the european institutions, in particular the european parliament, given its unique and historic importance. european values must always be respected and never called into question. the conditions must be reciprocal and legally enshrined. the eu should also take advantage of this moment to try to strengthen cooperation with the us in the banking sector.
in writing. - the united states of america (usa) is the european union's (eu) main trading partner with whom we have excellent relations, both friendly and commercial, and which has always helped europeans to solve their problems. in the face of the enormous challenges posed by the crisis, we must focus on measures that promote economic growth and job creation. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution drawn up by mr vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade, following the statements by the council and the commission on the eu-us trade and investment negotiations, as this is a huge asset for both sides. once implemented, the proposed measures will boost the eu's economic growth by around 5% of its gross domestic product, which will benefit not only the eu and the us, but also all international trade where the eu should continue to assert its leadership. with european industry in decline, it is essential to increase markets if we are to reduce unemployment, especially youth unemployment. this can only be achieved by improving the regulation of international trade and reducing legal barriers.
in writing. - contrary to what the big free trade advocates are saying, this agreement will not create high quality jobs for european workers, it will not directly benefit european consumers, it will not open up new opportunities for eu companies to sell goods and services in the us or at least for companies in all eu countries, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. it will certainly open up new opportunities for large multinationals, such as full access to the markets for public services to be privatised. it will be above all a race to the bottom between the two sides of the atlantic in terms of wages and working conditions, environmental protection standards, consumer rights and public health safeguards. as we said during the debate, this is one of those issues that can divide the waters. as you would expect, the right and social democracy are on the same side in defending free trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism that emerged from the washington consensus. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. - i believe there should be a strong commitment from both sides to reach a swift agreement on eu trade and investment with the us. the eu and the us are the two largest trading and investment partners in the world, accounting together for about half of global gdp and one third of global trade. eu and us markets are deeply integrated, with an average of almost eur 2 billion of goods and services traded bilaterally per day, supporting millions of jobs in both economies, and eu and us investment is the real engine of the transatlantic relationship, with bilateral investment totalling over eur 2,394 billion in 2011. in view of the reality of these figures, i see no reason why the conclusion of this agreement should not be a great success, which will boost the economies of both economic blocs, with their respective gains in terms of job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu-us trade and investment negotiations, in which parliament expresses its expectation of the opening of negotiations with the us, its close monitoring of them and the opportunity to contribute to their success. i support the wishes expressed in this resolution.
in writing. − as the global economy faces new challenges and new and stronger economic players emerge, both the united states and the european union should exploit the potential of closer economic cooperation. in this sense, the full realisation of an ambitious and comprehensive transatlantic trade and investment partnership could bring significant economic gains for the eu (eur 119.2 billion per year) and an increase in european exports to the us of around 28%. the trade and investment agreement will also promote job creation, directly benefit european consumers, open up new opportunities for european companies, in particular smes, and ensure full access to the us public procurement market. the strategic importance of economic relations between the eu and the us must therefore be reaffirmed and deepened. the european parliament looks forward to the opening of negotiations with the us and the european commission should keep the european parliament fully informed at all stages of the negotiations. i supported this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the commission does not see the need to change international trade policies to combat the crisis we are in, but rather what the commission is proposing. this agreement does not deal with the movement of goods and services, which circulate between the two blocks at low tariffs. it is an agreement for the deregulation and liberalisation of new sectors of the economy which break environmental and social standards in the union. the eu-us trade and investment agreement will not encourage the creation of high-quality jobs, will not create new opportunities for european smes, but it paves the way for the total economic domination of the big multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial sector is not subject to excessive regulation. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the european union (eu) and the united states of america (us) share common values, comparable legal systems and are the two largest trading and investment players in the world, together accounting for about half of global gdp and one third of global trade. considering that both markets are deeply integrated, with an average of almost €2 billion a day in goods and services being traded bilaterally, supporting millions of jobs in both economies, and that eu and us investment is the real driver of the transatlantic relationship, with bilateral investment totalling over €2,394 billion in 2011, i am therefore enthusiastic about deepening bilateral relations between the two global economies, as i understand that they could bring significant economic gains for the eu (€119,2 billion a year) and the us (€94.9 billion a year). it should also be noted that eu exports to the us could increase by 28%, benefiting european exporters of goods and services and american consumers. however, having voted in favour of the report by the committee on international trade on the same subject, i have decided to vote against the proposal put forward by this political group alone.
in writing. - contrary to what the big advocates of free trade claim, this agreement will not favour 'high quality job creation for european workers', will not benefit 'directly european consumers', will not open up new opportunities for eu companies to sell goods and services in the us, or at least for companies in all eu countries, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. it will certainly open up new opportunities for large multinationals, for example in full access to the 'markets' of public services to be privatised. as you would expect, the right and social democracy are on the same side in defending free trade - one of the pillars of neoliberalism that emerged from the washington consensus. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − i agree, considering that disclosure to investors and consumers is an essential part of corporate social responsibility and should be based on easily applicable and measurable social and environmental principles. this is also important to protect the long-term value of european investments and i want this commitment to be based on support for the un principles for responsible investment and the principle of integrated reporting. i also note the positive developments in the ongoing reform of the transparency directive and the accounting directive in addressing the issue of corporate social responsibility, while balancing the legitimate demand for transparency and accountability with the burden of reporting by companies, strongly supporting the legislative proposal on country-by-country reporting based on the rules of the extractive industries transparency initiative and the reporting of sales and profits as well as taxes and revenues in order to discourage corruption and prevent tax planning. i would stress that the country reporting should cover sectors which in burma/myanmar have been directly implicated in human rights violations and environmental destruction, such as the mining, timber, oil and gas sectors.
in writing. - the restoration of the benefit of the generalized tariff preferences for burma can contribute positively to the establishment in the country of a free and fair, democratic regime respecting human rights and civil liberties, as i have had occasion to wish for in the past. the european union must seek to contribute positively to ensuring that burma's development proceeds in the right direction and that the courage shown by its leaders and people is not betrayed and is strengthened by the institutional reforms and social stabilization that are still lagging behind.
in writing. − myanmar's access to eu tariff preferences (gsp) was temporarily suspended in 1997 due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour, confirmed by the international labour organisation (ilo) in a special procedure of its commission of inquiry. it was then determined that the temporary suspension should end following a report from the commission demonstrating that the practices leading to that suspension have ceased. in this resolution, parliament welcomed the progress made towards 'full democratisation' and 'consolidation of the rule of law'. it also expresses concern at the continued use of forced labour and the use of child soldiers. in reality, the concern of the majority of parliament has little to do with the people of this country but with the interests of big business and the big powers. with the passing of the foreign investment law in november 2012, which will "frame the unprecedented liberalisation of the burmese economy", a new market for european multinationals will open up. we must not forget that burma's geostrategic location between china and india and its natural resources, including energy, can play an important role for the eu and its nato allies, particularly the usa.
in writing. − since 1971, the eu has granted non-reciprocal trade preferences to developing countries, ensuring that exporters from these countries pay lower duties on some or all of the products they export to the eu. this gives them vital access to eu markets, which contributes to the growth of their economies. this system is known as the "generalised system of preferences". this system had been suspended for myanmar/burma due to the widespread practice of forced labour in that country. however, efforts made by myanmar/burma in this regard may lead to the re-establishment of the generalized system of preferences for that country. we must therefore monitor the evolution of the existence of forced labour in myanmar/burma in order to consider the possible re-establishment of the generalized system of preferences in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on restoring access to the generalized tariff preferences for myanmar/burma because it recognises that responsible and sustainable trade and investment, in particular with and from the union, can support myanmar/burma's efforts to fight poverty and to ensure that the measures benefit wider segments of the population.
in writing. − although the european commission has called on parliament to end the suspension of the generalised system of preferences (gsp) in burma/myanmar and its approval by the european parliament, as it considers that there are indeed timid developments in relation to forced labour, parliament also wants human rights in burma/myanmar to be fully implemented and respected. it therefore called on the burmese authorities to continue their efforts to bring about genuine democratization in the country and the establishment of a genuine rule of law, with an active civil society protected by its rights and guarantees.
in writing. − myanmar's access to eu tariff preferences (gsp) was temporarily suspended in 1997 due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour, confirmed by the international labour organisation (ilo) in a special procedure of its commission of inquiry. it was then determined that the temporary suspension should end following a report from the commission demonstrating that the practices leading to that suspension have ceased. the resolution welcomes the progress made towards 'full democratisation' and 'consolidation of the rule of law'. it also expresses concern at the continued use of forced labour and the use of child soldiers. in reality, the concern of the majority of the ep has little to do with the people of this country but with the interests of big business and the big powers. with the passing of the foreign investment law in november 2012, which will "frame the unprecedented liberalisation of the burmese economy", a new market for european multinationals will open up.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, considering that the territorial dimension of the strategy will lead to the concrete development of the notion of territorial cohesion. i would stress that a macro-regional strategy for the alps is an effective instrument for strengthening european territorial cooperation in the region concerned, applying a bottom-up approach and increasing cooperation through better use of available resources, thus facilitating cross-sectoral policy coordination. finally, i would stress that the new framework for macro-regional cooperation must ensure that the natural handicaps of peripheral regions, such as high-altitude mountain areas, islands and outermost regions, are converted into advantages and opportunities, and that the sustainable development of these regions is stimulated.
in writing. - macro-regions are the logical consequence of the growing interdependence of countries and their similar or common characteristics, underlying a membership of a particular geographical and cultural area which, if it transcends borders, is nevertheless delimited by them. the macro-regional approach allows common problems to be faced, shared problems to be tackled, cohesion to be promoted and solutions to be sought whose effects can benefit all actors and give the european union an overall vision that allows it to develop its action more appropriately. considering that the territories that make up the alpine region have many common features, such as the unique geographical character of their high-altitude mountain areas, and are strongly interlinked with heterogeneous economic capacities and growing concerns about environmental issues, demographic developments, transport infrastructure, tourism and energy issues, i think that the region will only gain from a global and macro-regional approach such as the one proposed here.
in writing. the alps are the only high mountain area which has been populated for many years and whose importance for the development of the european union is undeniable. despite its potential, it has experienced a significant decline in its agricultural production which protected certain areas and a flight of people to the cities. this is a situation that must be reversed. to do this, it is necessary to know how to take advantage of existing natural resources by implementing development projects in the areas of agriculture, transport and tourism. the peripheral and outermost regions need similar attention from the european institutions in order to increase their competitiveness and create conditions for the settlement of their population. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) and rule 110 (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the epp, s&d, greens/efa and alde political groups, on the need to establish a macro-regional strategy for the alps because i consider this strategy to be essential to the development of this territory with a direct impact on the development of the eu itself and i hope that in the future other mountain regions will be able to benefit from a similar development strategy.
in writing. − this resolution considers that large-scale strategies, such as macro-regional strategies, are a plus for the implementation of eu policies at local and regional level, emphasising governance at various levels for their implementation. it also proposes to apply this formula to the alps, in line with the strategies adopted for the baltic sea and the danube. we welcome the concern to promote policies that promote effective economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union and involve cooperation between countries and regions with different affinities, taking account in particular of their specific characteristics and natural constraints. however, part of the framework for this macro-regional strategy is set in the framework of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, with which we disagree and whose consequences for countries and populations have generally been: worsening of working conditions, increasing unemployment and favouring the concentration of capital in the hands of monopoly holders. the document presents contradictory aspects, including the way in which the eu subverts the concept of cohesion by tying countries to strategies whose aims and objectives are in contradiction to those of the desired cohesion.
in writing. − the macro-regional strategies are designed to make better use of existing resources to address territorial development issues, identify common responses to common challenges, strengthen territorial integration and increase the effectiveness of the various forms of eu-supported policies and partnerships between public administrations and local authorities, as well as other institutions and civil society organisations. the development of large-scale strategies such as macro-regional strategies should contribute to strengthening the role of the local and regional level in the implementation of eu policies and the principle of multi-level governance should be placed at the heart of the planning and implementation of the alpine strategy. the macro-regional strategy for the alps is an effective instrument for strengthening european territorial cooperation in the region concerned, applying a bottom-up approach and enhancing cooperation through better use of available resources, thus facilitating cross-sectoral policy coordination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses that a macro-regional strategy for the alps must take into account the preservation of traditional land use, mainly agricultural, in order to promote biodiversity and the preservation of existing protected areas.
in writing. − macro-regional strategies represent an added value for the regions covered as they allow them to carry out more detailed strategic planning and define the best investments to leverage economic growth and job creation in the regions concerned. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that this type of territorial cooperation is very beneficial for the whole of the european union, as it allows a region to become more competitive on a global scale. finally, i would also like to stress that i look forward to the creation of the atlantic macro-region, which will be able to take advantage of the actions already defined in the integrated maritime policy and blue growth as important levers to provide the eu with greater growth potential.
in writing. − we welcome the concern to promote policies that promote effective economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union and involve cooperation between countries and regions with different affinities, taking account in particular of their specific characteristics and natural constraints. however, part of the framework for this macro-regional strategy is set within the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, with which we disagree and whose consequences for countries and populations have been, in general, the worsening of working conditions, the increase in unemployment and the favouring of the concentration of capital in the hands of monopoly holders.
in writing. - i approve the present motion for a resolution, starting by asking all companies, including clothing companies, that contract or subcontract factories in bangladesh and other countries that fully respect internationally recognised csr practices, in particular the recently updated oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, the ten principles of the united nations global compact, the iso 26000 guideline on social responsibility, the ilo tripartite declaration of principles on multinational enterprises and social policy and the un guiding principles on business and human rights, and that they critically investigate their supply chains to ensure that their products are exclusively manufactured in factories that fully respect safety standards and workers' rights. i also call on the commission to actively promote responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, paying particular attention to ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the fields of human rights, labour and the environment.
in writing. - as i said in january this year, the various accidents which have recently occurred in the textile factories of bangladesh - which i deeply regret and whose victims and families i remember - make it clear that the safety and hygiene conditions at work in these industrial complexes are far from western standards. unfortunately, this competitiveness is built at the expense of the exploitation of workers who are victims of these poor conditions and low wages and it puts at risk the competing european industries which seek to ensure that those who work in them at least have the minimum requirements required by their respective legislation. the textile industry in my country has been particularly affected by this unfair competition. western companies which feed these situations of degradation of human dignity and risk to life and health by ordering or relocating should reflect on their practices, reconsider them and seek to adopt or require the adoption of another type of rigour and requirement in this respect.
in writing. the employment situation of many workers in asian countries, where many of the world's textile industries have been relocated, is one of the european parliament's concerns, and it has recommended the inclusion of safeguard clauses for failure to respect human rights. on 24 april, a major tragedy occurred in the textile sector in bangladesh with the collapse of a factory in a building where thousands of people worked. the collapse of this building left over a thousand dead and hundreds injured. bangladesh is the european union's (eu) largest trading partner in asia, benefiting from special export conditions based on the everything but arms (eba) principle. we therefore have an increased responsibility in demanding compliance with the standards set by the international labour organization (ilo). i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and call on the international authorities to demand that the bangladeshi authorities strictly observe the safety conditions at work and i urge companies importing products manufactured in these countries to take into account that products cannot reach europe at any price. especially not stained with the blood of their victims.
in writing. the tragedy in bangladesh, with the collapse of an industrial building on the outskirts of dhaka and the death of thousands of people, has intensified the long-known problem of inhuman working conditions and extreme exploitation of workers in companies supplying the european market. five months ago we were discussing the victims of textile factory fires, the precarious working conditions of these workers, arguing for the need for manufacturers to actually implement health and safety legislation and for there to be more control by governments through an independent system of labour inspections. once again, there is no clear accountability for multinational textile retailers who use cheap labour to increase their profits. financial compensation and condolences to the families of the victims are not enough, the eu must take action against the companies that profit from the persistence of this situation. mechanisms need to be put in place for imports of products of this origin.
in writing. − on 24 april 2013, the collapse of the garment factory at the rana plaza building in dhaka, bangladesh, killed 1,100 people and injured around 2,500, making it the worst tragedy in the history of the garment industry. these accidents draw attention to the non-compliance with safety standards at production sites and prove that urgent action is needed to improve the implementation of core ilo labour standards and increase respect for the principles of corporate social responsibility (csr) by multinational textile retailers. the multinationals which have relocated their production to these countries cannot continue to work in unacceptable conditions of safety and health. we cannot continue to accept this kind of unfair competition which, moreover, puts people's lives at risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on working conditions and health and safety standards following the recent factory fires and building collapse in bangladesh, which underlines the importance of the recent bangladesh building and fire safety agreement concluded on 15 may 2013 between trade unions, ngos and some 40 multinational textile retailers.
in writing. the collapse of the textile factory structure in the rana plaza building in dhaka, bangladesh, has resulted in the greatest tragedy in the history of the global clothing industry. the conditions of such textile factories are very precarious and the government of bangladesh has failed to implement national regulations due to collusion between corrupt officials and owners who sought to reduce the burden of costs. parliament deplored the tragic and avoidable loss of more than 1 100 lives and the injuries suffered by hundreds of workers and called on the commission to promote responsible business among eu companies operating in third countries or contracting or subcontracting with bangladeshi factories, in particular by fully adhering to the practices recognised by the generalised system of preferences (gsp). the motion for a resolution therefore deserves my applause.
in writing. - unfortunately, deaths in bangladesh due to poor factory conditions are a constant occurrence in the country. the most brutal was in april this year, when 1,100 people were killed and 2,500 injured. this event once again showed the violation of numerous agreements and treaties, also underlining the lack of social responsibility of western companies, which had agreements with this textile factory. the abuse and disregard of human rights in bangladesh must be addressed by the union, bearing in mind that bangladesh benefits from the generalized system of preferences and the 'everything but arms' initiative, which can be suspended if serious and systematic violations are found. i think it is essential that the authorities of the country take the necessary measures to avoid similar cases.
in writing. the tragedy in bangladesh, with the collapse of an industrial building on the outskirts of dhaka and the death of thousands of people, has intensified the long-known problem of inhuman working conditions and extreme exploitation of workers in companies supplying the european market. what happens is that there is no clear accountability for multinational textile retailers who use cheap labour to increase their profits. financial compensation and condolences to the families of the victims are not enough, the eu must take action against the companies that profit from the persistence of this situation. mechanisms need to be put in place for imports of products of this origin.
on behalf of the ppe group. the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a technical referral suggested by the parliament's services, as parliament had reached agreement with the council and the commission on a text on the two documents on the table: the schengen evaluation mechanism and the reintroduction of borders. so for technical reasons we have to return this report to the committee, the libe committee will vote on the new text tonight and it will be present in the debate tomorrow in the plenary. it is therefore a technical referral.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this very important report and for the work that he and the members of the crim committee – the special committee on organised crime – have been doing. we welcome the report and support much of what is in it. i am happy that i have been able to follow the work of the crim committee by visiting you and talking with you on a couple of occasions. i know that you are working on the final conclusions with regard to specific measures taken in the field of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. let me refer to some of the issues which you mentioned and that are also in the report. on corruption and integrity, i am pleased to see the large number of recommendations, especially with reference to the anti-corruption report that the commission is planning to adopt this year. for the time being the commission does not intend to propose new legislation on the definition of corruption, the approximation of statutes of limitation for corruption offences or the protection of whistleblowers. long-standing international standards – such as uncac or council of europe instruments, which cover a wide range of corruption aspects – are already in place. with few exceptions, the shortcomings in our member countries relate to the unsatisfactory implementation of anti-corruption legislation or policies or sometimes, perhaps, a lack of political will. the commission’s anti-corruption report will therefore look at the end results and the impact of anti-corruption efforts. we will refer to all kinds of corruption in the public and private sector. we will assess member states’ efforts to see what has worked and what has not, to recommend further improvements and to disseminate good practices. as regards the fight against money laundering, we share the recommendations in the report. the recently proposed fourth money laundering directive will address several of these issues, such as the explicit mention of tax crimes in the list of predicate offences and enhanced transparency on beneficial ownership; it will reinforce vigilance on sport betting and gambling in general; and it will reinforce cooperation and data sharing between public authorities. to complement the preventive measures in the fourth money laundering directive, the commission is preparing a proposal for a criminal law directive laying down minimum rules on the definition of, and sanctions for, money laundering. we greatly welcome the fact that the mid-term report insists on the need for better tools to identify the beneficial owners and the inclusion of beneficial ownership information in company registers, as well as recommending limiting the creation of shell companies. the mid-term report refers to the need for efficient systems for the confiscation and recovery of the proceeds of crime and i welcome the proposals here. once adopted, the proposal which is now being negotiated between the council and the parliament – the confiscation directive – will need to be implemented properly and promptly. we welcome the report’s emphasis on the need for special protection for victims of trafficking, especially children. as you know, the newly adopted directive on victims’ rights means that all victims of crime will benefit from common minimum standards on their procedural rights, support and protection throughout criminal proceedings. this directive recognises the specific needs of protection for vulnerable victims, especially minors, and it also pays special attention to victims of trafficking, terrorism and organised crime. this legislation must be properly implemented and applied by 2015. only this will make victims’ rights a tangible reality for all victims and their families. the new drugs strategy was adopted last december and the first of two action plans will be adopted this month. two commission legislative proposals on precursors are also being negotiated to strengthen control on trade in precursors, whether the trade is with countries outside or inside the eu. we also welcome in your report the strong statement on the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office, which will be a milestone in the process of improving the protection of the eu’s financial interests and thus of taxpayers’ money. vice-president reding and commissioner šemeta have discussed this with you on several occasions. i would like to thank the parliament and mr iacolino for the strong recommendations on this important project. we intend to adopt a proposal for a regulation establishing the european prosecutor’s office shortly, and i can assure you that the proposal will take your views into account. we share the same concerns and the same goals: the waste of eu funds in the pockets of fraudsters is unacceptable. finally, i also welcome the recommendations on research. the commission is negotiating with parliament and the council the content and the budget of the next horizon 2020 research programme. this includes a ‘secure societies’ theme dealing with numerous aspects of organised crime listed in the report, including money laundering. with regard to the cross-cutting aspects of organised crime, you referred to the idea of revising the current legislative framework, including on mafia-type organisations, and for stronger sanctions, specific witness protection measures and tailor-made investigation tools. the commission is currently carrying out a study on the effectiveness of the tools used to fight organised crime in the eu. the outcome of this study will be available next year and will enable us to determine the best suitable measures to be adopted in future. we greatly welcome this report; the recommendations will serve as a solid basis for action at eu level. together, we can make a strong contribution to fighting organised crime in the european union.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament ladies and gentlemen, i should like to emphasize that i am speaking here on behalf of the green group/european free alliance, which abstained from the vote in committee. we want to see a constructive abstention, as has been the position of this group from the beginning with regard to the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it was this group, along with others, that proposed that money laundering be part of the commission's mandate. it is a part of your mandate that we like very much and, moreover, a part of our colleague salvatore iacolino's report that we like very much, also because it has some important steps in the fight against money laundering. it is also a subject which, when we started work a year ago, was not on the table as it is now. today, after the debates we have had in the council and after the news that has appeared in the press, we know that the social damage caused by money laundering or money laundering on a european scale is enormous, it is one trillion, that is, one million million euros every year. what are the reasons that compel us, too, to be cautious at the same time? a certain tendency to make progress in the field of criminal law, criminal law, the harmonization of criminal laws in the various member states, sometimes without taking due care of all the questions of fundamental freedoms and rights. we think this way should be done. the way forward in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering has to be done safely in what we want to be tough on, such as crime, but also in what we want to be firm on, such as defending the rights of citizens. we are also concerned, on the other hand, for example, about the idea that we could create a subcommittee within the committee on civil liberties of this parliament just to deal with criminal matters. it is not a proposal from the rapporteur, but it is a proposal in the report. we think that would create too big a divide between the defenders of civil liberties and the defenders of security and crime. we are both on the same side, not on different sides, and i believe that in the future there is still a way for us to work together so that we can vote in favour of the final report. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8)))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question, ms morvai. corruption within the institutions of the union is indeed a phenomenon, for example in the linkage between the institutions of the union and the funds which are awarded to national governments and then sometimes feed in to the financing of national parties. it is a disgraceful phenomenon that must be addressed by the european public prosecutor of which commissioner malmström spoke, which will have as the first item on its mandate to fight fraud concerning the budget of the union. this has to be complemented, of course, by a strong edifice of civil rights and guarantees. we have seen from the experience of olaf that sometimes you have very strong tools for fighting corruption but that these are not framed by a good legal basis in respect of civil rights and freedoms. there is much to be done in that area in the future.
the persistence, spread and diversification of phenomena such as organised crime, corruption and money laundering are both the cause and the expression of a degradation of democracy, and are inseparable from the growing subordination of political power to economic power. tax havens are now an essential part of the complex of the chessboard in which these phenomena are played out. key players in money laundering and capital flight from both illicit and legal activities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the fight against this must be based largely on preventive measures and it must not be forgotten that its results are all the more effective the closer it is to the reality in which the phenomena occur. the gradual weakening of the national structures responsible for combating these phenomena is a serious setback which no supranational structure can replace.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the idea behind this initiative is to ask the commission how it intends to implement and encourage the so-called active inclusion strategies, which it mentions in its communication. it would be more appropriate to question the commission when it intends to put an end, once and for all, to the active strategies of social exclusion, of the destruction of social rights and jobs, a strategy which the european commission has so well implemented. it's just that that would be important enough. the commission's communication says that more attention should be given to policies such as childcare, education, active labour market policies, housing support and health services. but do you really believe what you write? because in my country, in portugal, as well as in several european countries, there are real people who suffer from the european policies that you have imposed, but who try to hide them with pretty words. in two years, in portugal, within the framework of the troika, they were very active in promoting the dismissal of civil servants and the closure of thousands of businesses by reducing domestic consumption. they have increased the number of unemployed by another 430 000 through cuts in wages and pensions, they have reduced wages by 9.2%, they have forced more than 250 000 young people to emigrate, they have closed emergency hospital units and increased health care costs, the numbers of child poverty have gone up dramatically. one of two: either you choose growth and cohesion, or poverty and civilizational backwardness. the lords are actively engaged in the last one!
what i am about to say was more directed at commissioner olli rehn than at you, because this debate is taking place at a time when the international monetary fund has accused the commission of being incompetent and of having made gross errors in the design of the rescue programmes. berlin also blamed the commission for the poor results of austerity policies. now no one wants to be responsible for the enormous failure of the adjustment programmes imposed on a number of countries, including my own, portugal. who's going to apologize to the millions of workers who lost their jobs? to the thousands of families who lost their homes? the millions of young people forced to emigrate? the thousands of businessmen who have declared bankruptcy? to the millions of children in poverty? to the thousands of elderly people without food and without medicine? the thousands of people who have fallen into depression and committed suicide? is this not enough for the commission to admit that it was wrong and change course? the commission must put aside the neoliberal policies that have led to the crisis and give priority to social policies. the commission has an obligation to do more and better and to defend the european social model in order to better serve citizens.
over the past five years, unemployment has reached historic levels in the european union. more than 26 million european citizens are unemployed and millions of european citizens are in poverty and social exclusion. in my country, portugal, the unemployment rate has doubled to almost 18%. youth unemployment is even more frightening, with one in two young portuguese looking for work and having no prospect of finding one. that is why i support the initiative for the new social investment package and congratulate commissioner andor. more effective social policies are needed and funds, including the european social fund, should be used to encourage citizens to acquire skills, enhance their skills and encourage their participation in society and the labour market. i would like to conclude by asking, commissioner andor, how the commission intends to help member states which have been forced to adopt fiscal consolidation policies and strong austerity measures to give priority to job creation and social inclusion.
mr president, unemployment in portugal has reached a new high of 17.8%. among the younger age group, it is 42.5%. there are already close to 1.5 million unemployed. numbers never seen in a democracy. this is the result of the implementation of the european union and imf programme, and it is a vivid libel against those who defend it and those who implement it. the european commission is talking about success. it will be successful if we take account of its real objectives: to use historically high unemployment as a weapon to impose a reduction in unit labour costs and the maximum exploitation of workers. this success means the sinking of a country and the impoverishment of the overwhelming majority of its population. but the portuguese workers and people do not accept this aggression and fight it relentlessly. their struggle, which has become a democratic and national imperative, will again take on greater expression on the 27th with a general strike. this is the surest way to defeat the aggressors - aggressors who will not fail to be held accountable for the trail of destruction they leave behind.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr vicente garcés, on this report. of course, we are familiar with the classic consumer protection issues. fair and safe trading practices, product safety and traceability must be ensured in a market of 500 million. but we are facing new challenges, facing new problems. the economic and financial crisis requires urgent measures to protect against abusive financial practices that place consumers at increased risk, lacking adequate and transparent information on financial instruments. there are consumers who still can't open a bank account. the transposition of directives also remains to be completed in many states. consumers and businesses are the foundation of the european union's economy and must be protected in an inclusive and constructive manner. an educated consumer, informed of his rights and duties, is also an economic asset for the european union.
mr president, there is a fallacious assumption which often frames the debates we have here on consumer protection policy. this assumption is that the deeper the single market, the deeper the successive liberalising agendas of the european union, the deeper the competition, the more consumer rights will be safeguarded. but reality exposes this fallacy. the reality is that liberalization and privatization have harmed and continue to harm consumers. energy, transport, financial services, and others, are stark examples. the liberalization and deregulation of agricultural and trade policies have also harmed consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's food safety is not compromised. it is therefore time to correct the foundations on which this debate is based, to bring them into line with reality, if we want a genuine defence of consumer rights and not just to use them as misleading propaganda for other purposes.
mr president, some 25 million europeans with economic difficulties are now living in social housing. this programme, in addition to providing suitable housing for the most deprived and affordable rents for people with limited possessions, has several additional advantages, such as combating real estate speculation, animating historic centres, and boosting civil construction. in this context, it is important to invest in the rehabilitation of the building, with a view to creating more social housing fires, respecting the principles of energy efficiency and seismic construction when justified, as is the case in the azores, since our cities and towns have several abandoned buildings in a state of advanced degradation. it is also important that the beneficiaries of this housing scheme are involved in the process of restoring and building their new homes, in a spirit of commitment to what is available to them and respect for equipment that is paid for by all taxpaying citizens.
mr president, this report clearly reflects a growing problem: the denial of the right to decent housing, which today affects families from increasingly different socioeconomic backgrounds. low wages, redundancies and the widespread use of housing credit as a preferred form of home ownership have led to social drama today. it would be interesting to see whether, in a european union where member states transfer collective wealth to the banks without any problems, they would now be equally willing to force banks to undergo debt rescheduling or debt restructuring procedures, or even to forgive part or all of their own debts. social housing is, unfortunately, a growing need, but what would be fair and desirable is for families to be able to live in their homes in a dignified way, without having to go through the social drama and the family trauma of leaving their home and their home.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs delli, for the report. it is a particularly timely initiative given the increasingly restricted access to affordable housing triggered by the crisis, as well as the rising levels of poverty and homelessness in the european union. having a suitable home is a precondition for a productive, dignified life. while planning and implementing housing policies remains primarily a matter of national competence, the commission fully supports the efforts of member states in this domain. the recently adopted social investment package, for instance, contains a number of relevant provisions related to housing. first, it calls on member states to foster social inclusion through providing quality, affordable and accessible essential services, including social housing, and thus reinforcing the message of the 2008 recommendation on active inclusion. second, member states are offered eu support to develop a methodology for reference budgets enabling a decent standard of living. further, the commission has invited member states to put into place integrated housing policies in order to better meet housing needs and thus prevent homelessness. the social investment package also seeks to mobilise member states to spend european union funds in a more strategic way. european union funds are indeed available to improve housing outcomes, and housing remains a funding priority for the next financial framework of 2014-2020. the european regional development fund may, for instance, finance integrated housing interventions and energy-efficient renovations. the european social fund can complement such integrated investments, and funds enhanced access to social services. the commission provides information on housing policy developments, as appropriate, in the context of the european semester exercise. some member states have already received country-specific recommendations on housing and social housing in 2012 and 2013. as underlined in ms delli’s report, well-designed housing policies, including social housing policies, may usefully contribute to progressing towards important european union policy goals. these goals may encompass poverty reduction, promoting active inclusion and inclusive territorial urban development, combating climate change, improving health and consumer policy outcomes or avoiding macroeconomic imbalances. however, careful policy planning is needed in the member states to avoid speculative real-estate bubbles and to intelligently channel housing support and investments with due regard to the resources available. housing policies should be seen in a wider context and built on a balanced mix of measures, such as investment in infrastructure, housing support or a responsible loan policy. given these considerations and the ambitious agenda presented in ms delli’s report, the commission will reflect on the concrete suggestions of the proposal at a later stage, following a more in-depth analysis of the report.
the policies of the european union have led to an increase in social inequalities, unemployment, poverty and the population at risk of poverty. more and more people and families are being denied the right to housing. in this context, investment in the social housing sector is a pressing social need that is gaining in importance. the right to housing, enshrined in the constitution in some countries, such as portugal, should be realised by guaranteeing citizens and families adequate housing, meeting their needs and ensuring their well-being, privacy and quality of life, thus contributing to social justice and cohesion and combating social exclusion and poverty. housing policies must combat solutions which lead to social exclusion and spatial segregation of certain sections of the population. social housing should be seen as a means of overcoming situations of social exclusion and not as a perpetuation of these situations. it is necessary to diagnose new social realities, recognising that the socio-family profiles of those using social housing have changed, as has the demand for such housing. these concerns should be duly addressed in the next multiannual financial framework (2014-2020), in particular in the cohesion funds.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs and the rapporteur for this excellent report and for its constant support of our policies of removing the obstacles to full enjoyment by europeans of their benefits as eu citizens. we discussed today the application of an important instrument to allow european citizens to effectively exert their right of access to justice in other member states – the 2003 directive on legal aid in cross-border civil and commercial matters. the 2012 commission report on its application observes that all the member states which are bound by the directive have transposed it. no major problems of implementation have been observed, even if there are some differences of interpretation between member states. the fact that there has only been one case before the european court of justice concerning cross-border legal aid also indicates that the application of the directive from a legal point of view is satisfactory. however, both the parliament and the commission reports conclude that awareness among citizens and lawyers of the benefits of this directive must be improved. the commission is already taking steps to that end: the e-justice portal is currently being updated in order to improve access to information and to the standard forms for legal aid. the migration of the european judicial network website to the e-justice portal will further improve user-friendliness and provide comprehensive and updated information. this will also inform citizens better regarding the other european procedures such as the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure. in addition, the commission has developed a compendium of legislation in cross-border civil and commercial matters, which includes this directive. the compendium has been distributed to legal professionals in member states on several occasions. coming to legal professionals and their role in applying the directive: not long ago in this very chamber, we highlighted the importance of judicial training in the application of eu law. we should help lawyers become familiar with the possibilities offered by the directive and advise citizens accordingly. we are implementing the pilot project on judicial training put forward by parliament. we are also providing funding, for example for the establishment of the european training platform. our proposals for the next financial framework also include judicial training as a priority area in order to support member states in their efforts. coming to the role of the member states: as you highlighted in your report, they must do their share of informing their own citizens about their rights under this directive and the national laws. your report includes several proposals for changes and amendments to the current directive and additional issues to be analysed in future reports on the application of the directive. we will duly take into account your proposals in the commission work in this field. at this stage, it is more effective to continue to focus on informing citizens of their rights and monitoring the correct application of the directive by member states. when consulted on the report, member states considered that a revision was not necessary. i must underline that this is not a ‘doing nothing’ scenario. action at both eu and national level to raise awareness and to ensure smooth application of the directive, and to provide updated information and it solutions to users on the legal aid procedures in member states, will greatly improve access to justice, as enshrined in article 47 of the eu charter of fundamental rights.
mr president, the european union's rules on so-called state aid are one of the most immediate ways of curbing democratic state intervention in the economy. this restriction can only be understood as an attack on democracy itself, to open the door to the dictatorship of the market. significantly, however, these rules do not prevent the channelling of generous public resources to powerful private interests. this is the case of multinationals, which the european union continues to allow, a few years after receiving large amounts of public funding, to move to other places in search of more public support, leaving a trail of destruction and unemployment behind them. the limitations on state intervention are particularly damaging to the less developed regions, preventing them from overcoming the distance which separates them from the other more developed regions. real economic and social cohesion and the fight against inequalities require public planning and intervention which, as experience has shown, do not meet these rules.
mr president, road infrastructure must respond to obvious economic and social needs for the transport and mobility of people and goods. needs that cannot be dissociated from a specific regional and territorial context. these specificities must obviously weigh on the type of operation and functioning of each infrastructure, including whether or not tolls are introduced and who is or is not liable to pay them. in portugal, for example, the introduction of tolls on road infrastructure, particularly motorways, in regions where they did not previously exist has proved disastrous, with considerable damage to regional development, the local economy, smes, citizens' mobility and road safety itself. moreover, it is now known that a substantial part of the revenue generated goes to cover the costs of the toll system itself. these are facts which cannot be ignored in this debate, nor can the experience of public-private partnerships, which has proved disastrous and ruinous for the public interest, be ignored.
madam president, to talk about food is to talk about health. we must protect consumers and end misleading food labelling. for example, references to gluten-free or lactose-free must be reliable because they have implications for people's health. i think that the agreement reached with the council is a positive one overall, because it clarifies the scope of the regulation and prevents certain operators from marketing food as special when in fact it is not and does not comply with the requirements laid down in the legislation. restrictions on the use of images of infants in labelling and advertising, which may create an idealised impression of the use of a particular product, are also positive. in addition, the agreement guarantees the revision of the requirements on residues, pesticides, labelling, advertising, commercial practices, etc. which concern infant formula, which is indeed very positive.
madam president, this regulation deals with specific provisions relating to food intended for specific vulnerable groups, such as infants and young children or people with medical problems. in this area, no other criterion is acceptable than that of ensuring the maximum possible protection of these groups, the maximum protection of human health and the strict application of principles such as the precautionary principle. it is also imperative to use the utmost transparency and to ensure that all relevant information is provided to the consumer. among the various aspects covered by this regulation, we would like to stress the importance of making further progress in the future in limiting or prohibiting the presence of residues of certain pesticides. this is an area where existing legislation must be constantly in line with the best available knowledge, and everything must be done to improve this knowledge. public research and development institutions and state laboratories play a key role in this area in supporting the formulation of appropriate public policies to safeguard the public interest. this is a role which, for various reasons, the european food safety authority is not in a position to play on its own.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the goal of the europe 2020 strategy is very clear: to lift 20 million people out of poverty. but what is happening is just the opposite. the crisis has exacerbated poverty and social exclusion across the union. commissioner andor is well aware of this dramatic situation and knows that it is time to give a clear political message to the citizens. in my country, portugal, about 20% of the population lives in poverty, and the number of portuguese who spend the whole day without eating has increased by 44% in the last three years. last year, 8 million kilos of food were distributed in portugal by the solidarity institutions. this aid fund, like other european funds, should be compulsory and its financing should not be less than eur 3.5 billion. this corresponds to the amount allocated to its predecessor, the european food distribution programme, negotiated before the crisis began. it is not reasonable that in the social context in which we live, the funding of this fund should be reduced. all member states are experiencing poverty, as evidenced by the number of countries participating in the european food distribution programme, which increased from 9 participants in 2001 to 20 in 2012. we must not forget the european union's core values of solidarity and social cohesion. the crisis must not divert us from these values. on the contrary, we must stand together in the fight against exclusion and poverty.
mr president, today more than yesterday - and, we hope, more than tomorrow - given the economic and social crisis we are going through, all initiatives to assist the most deprived are urgent. after the threats of ending the food aid programme without any follow-up, the european fund for the most deprived proposes a different aid which should be better adapted to the needs of individuals and families. i would point out, however, that this fund has a low budget for the real difficulties faced by european citizens and is out of step with the growth rate of poverty in the euro area, as it aims to support only 4 million citizens out of a total of 120 million potential beneficiaries. we must now do more with less, be more responsible in the management of funds and, above all, we must end the cycle of poverty, which is often associated with unlimited support or reciprocity. it is also necessary to monitor the strict and thrifty implementation of this fund, ensuring that it does not compete with other support or duplicate existing responses.
in writing. - i support this report as i am in favour of the commission's proposal as a whole, as well as the amendments proposed by the ep to a narrower definition of the circumstances under which the commission may adopt delegated acts, and to distinguish this case from other changes that may be made to this plan. furthermore, i am in favour of an explicit reference to the ordinary legislative procedure, stressing that this procedure must be used to amend any part of the plan, apart from the specific cases provided for to create legal certainty. finally, i propose a clearer role for the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries and the regional advisory councils.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks - 1 because it introduces the necessary adaptations to the lisbon treaty and allows for the creation of legal certainty to ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks, based on maximum sustainable yield.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has introduced institutional tension between the european parliament and the european commission as regards the type of acts by which the latter must act in accordance with the powers and competences conferred on it. if i consider the doubts about the possibility of using the different levels of rules to be normal and even salutary, i believe that, for reasons of legal certainty and protection of the interests of citizens, they should be clarified promptly. i believe that the commission should see parliament's care and attention to its action as an incentive to its transparency and effectiveness and not as a setback or a reduction in its capacity to act.
in writing. − the over-exploitation of marine resources is a matter of concern to citizens who are aware of the need for sustainable and balanced management of ecosystems in order to ensure the survival of the human species. the report we have just voted on, drawn up by mrs diane dodds, concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament (ep) has seen its role as a co-legislator strengthened and, consequently, some european union (eu) regulations need to be amended under the new treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i therefore voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur's position that the current council decisions should be replaced by duly typified delegated acts and that the ordinary legislative procedure should be used for other changes to the plan, so as to create greater legal certainty.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishes a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the commission proposal aims to align this regulation with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, concerning delegated and implementing acts, by proposing the introduction of delegated acts in the following areas: adaptation of fishing mortality rates and associated stock biomass levels to scientific findings, adjustment of fishing effort in case of exclusion or re-inclusion of a group of vessels in the effort regime, specification of the rules on the method of calculating fishing capacity and adjustment of maximum capacity levels and establishment of the rules on the method of calculation allowing member states to adapt the maximum allowable fishing effort in relation to quota management and following transfers of effort between effort groups. the rapporteur, while giving her general agreement to the commission's proposal, nevertheless proposes a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts. we voted in favour.
in writing. − as this proposal is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be brought into line with the tfeu, it is of particular importance to find a solution with a sound legal basis which safeguards the rights of parliament under the lisbon treaty. in addition, the solutions adopted in the case of this regulation may influence future decision-making processes applicable to other multiannual plans. it is therefore essential that we find the right legal solution so that in future the case law can be used as a basis for the
in writing. − the purpose of this report was to identify the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks and to classify them into delegated and implementing acts in accordance with the new hierarchy of rules established by the treaty of lisbon. the rapporteur generally agreed with the commission proposal in that it proposed the adoption of delegated acts to adapt fishing mortality rates and biomass levels of the stock to scientific knowledge of the resource, to adjust fishing effort in case of exclusion or inclusion of vessels in the effort regime, to specify rules for estimating fishing capacity and to establish a calculation method allowing the adjustment of the allowable fishing effort to the management of fishing quotas. in agreeing with the proposals put forward, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish a long-term plan to promote sustainable fishing of cod stocks.
in writing. the commission is proposing to amend the proposal to make the european union's fishing fleet more competitive and to make it more competitive. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the hierarchy of rules for legally binding union acts has been changed, with the legislators (european parliament and council) being authorised to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of the legislative act. since the regulation establishes a long-term plan for the fisheries of cod stocks and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, and since such a plan lacks adjustments to the fisheries contingency (such as the variation in the biomass levels of the stock), the commission proposes a solution with a sound legal basis that safeguards parliament's rights. having considered the commission's proposals and the rapporteur's conclusions, i shall vote in favour of this draft legislative resolution.
in writing. − the main point of this report concerns the identification of the powers conferred on the commission by regulation no 1342/2008 and their classification as delegated or implementing powers. the rapporteur agrees with the commission proposal in that it suggests the use of delegated acts to adapt the mortality rates and the spawning stock biomass levels corresponding to scientific knowledge, but proposes some amendments, in particular a stricter definition of the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts. parliament also proposed that the ordinary legislative procedure be used to amend the plan, except in cases specifically provided for. so i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the office of the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, mr jacek olgierd kurski, in respect of possible legal proceedings relating to an alleged offence of infringement of the road traffic code. the alleged conduct has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of member of the european parliament by mr jacek olgierd kurski, nor does it constitute an express opinion or vote in the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament for the purposes of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. furthermore, since the honourable member has been heard, i agree that there is no need to waive the parliamentary immunity of jacek olgierd kurski.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mrs cecilia wikström, concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jacek olgierd kurski, mep, following a request from the office of the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland, following an allegation that he had violated the road code by disregarding two road signs: a ban on turning left and crossing a continuous double lane. the rapporteur considers that this behaviour is not directly or indirectly related to the performance of her duties as a member of the european parliament (mep). however, in accordance with article 105 of the constitution of the republic of poland and in order for the procedure to proceed, it is necessary for the parliament to decide on the waiver of parliamentary immunity. in this connection, and in view of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs recommending the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jacek olgierd kurski, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament. jacek olgierd kurski is accused of having committed an offence against the highway code under article 92 (1) of the law of 20 may 1971 establishing a code of offences (official journal of poland, 2010, no 46, item 275 as amended). the action has no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr jacek olgierd kurski as a member of the european parliament, nor does it constitute an express opinion or vote in the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. that is why i am voting in favour of lifting jacek olgierd kurski's immunity.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mep jacek olgierd kurski in an action relating to an alleged infringement of the road traffic code. i am therefore in favour of the decision to waive the parliamentary immunity, since the facts of this case, as presented in the documents sent to the committee on legal affairs, are clearly not the views expressed or the votes cast by the member in the course of his duties. on the basis of these arguments, i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jacek olgierd kurski, since, in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament enjoy the immunities accorded to members of their national parliament and therefore require the european parliament's authorisation to answer to the courts.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, małgorzata handzlik, on the grounds that she may be sued for an alleged fraud against the financial interests of the union, allegedly for presenting forged documents in order to obtain reimbursement of the costs of attending a language course which she did not in fact attend. the circumstances in which the małgorzata handzlik case was conducted, the small amount involved and the uncertain nature and provenance of the evidence have raised serious doubts about the whole procedure. it therefore appears that it is possible to proceed from the assumption that there is a case of fumus persecutionis. that, in my view, is why the immunity of małgorzata handzlik should not be waived.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. malgorzata handzlik is accused of attempted fraud against the financial interests of the european union (eu) for allegedly forging documents for expenses related to attending a language course which she did not attend, with a view to reimbursement. during the course of the procedure, the member was heard twice by the commission, as well as by the director-general of the european anti-fraud office and the director-general for finance of the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in this connection, and in view of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs which recommends that the parliamentary immunity of malgorzata handzlik not be waived, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the request submitted by the prosecutor-general concerns a legal action concerning an alleged crime under the polish criminal code concerning fraud and forgery of documents. małgorzata handzlik was charged with attempting to commit fraud against the financial interests of the union by allegedly presenting false documents in order to obtain reimbursement of the costs of attending a language course which she did not in fact attend. given the circumstances in which the małgorzata handzlik case was conducted by the various authorities involved, the small amount involved and the uncertain nature and provenance of the evidence, serious doubts remain about the whole procedure. it can be assumed that a case of fumus persecutionis exists. therefore, i vote that the immunity of małgorzata handzlik should not be lifted.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mep małgorzata handzlik in a case in which she was accused of having requested reimbursement from the european parliament for the costs of attending a language course on the basis of the applicable provisions, although she did not in fact attend the course. the committee on legal affairs assessed the situation and, taking into account the circumstances in which the case of małgorzata handzlik was conducted, the small amount involved and the uncertain nature and provenance of the evidence gave rise to serious doubts as to the whole procedure and it therefore appears that the existence of a fumus persecutionis case can be assumed. on the basis of these arguments put to the vote in the committee, i support the proposal not to waive the parliamentary immunity of małgorzata handzlik.
in writing. - this request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ms malgorzata handzlik is controversial, with suspicions of fumus persecutionis. for these reasons, i agree with the rapporteur and i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the cologne public prosecutor has requested the waiver of alexander alvaro's immunity in order to carry out investigations specifically related to his recent accident, in particular as regards the question of whether the accident could have been prevented by alexander alvaro. the prosecutor explains that the investigations in this regard have not yet been carried out in view of the parliamentary immunity of alexander alvaro, and cannot be carried out in the context of investigations against the other participants in the accident. whereas, furthermore, in the statement submitted to the commission, alexander alvaro's lawyer stated on behalf of the member that the member could not have prevented the accident and therefore did not act negligently, since he was placed in a dynamic chain of events and visibility was limited; the lawyer also stated on behalf of his constituent that mr alvaro wanted the investigations to be carried out as quickly as possible, that he was aware that the request for the waiver of immunity had been made, but that he wanted parliament's prerogatives and rights to be respected.
in writing. - this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr alexander alvaro, mep, as communicated by the president of the european parliament (ep) on 23 may 2013 and following a procedure initiated by the cologne public prosecutor's office. alexander alvaro, according to his lawyer, is accused by the cologne prosecutor general of manslaughter and of causing, by negligence, bodily harm when he was the victim of a serious road accident on the a1 motorway, which resulted in one death and serious injuries to three other people, including himself. in his statement, the lawyer considers that the mep could not have avoided the accident, as he was caught in a dynamic chain of events and had limited visibility, and that he wants the procedure to be concluded as quickly as possible. the rapporteur considers that the behaviour of alexander alvaro is not directly or indirectly related to the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament (mep) and that there is no fumus persecutionis. in this connection, and in view of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs which recommends the waiver of parliamentary immunity from prosecution of alexander alvaro, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the prosecutor general of cologne (germany) has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr alexander alvaro, member and vice-president of the european parliament, in connection with the initiation of an investigation into an alleged offence. the attorney general's request is connected to investigations regarding a certain car accident in which alexander alvaro is implicated. parliament must lift the parliamentary immunity of alexander alvaro so that the case against him can move forward. so i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of alexander alvaro.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr alexander alvaro, in the context of proceedings initiated by the cologne public prosecutor's office in connection with a serious road accident on the a1 motorway which resulted in the death of one person and serious injuries to three others, including mr alexander alvaro himself. the committee on legal affairs has assessed the situation and sees no reason not to waive alexander alvaro's immunity. in particular, in the present case, the commission found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the proceedings were brought to cause political damage to the member. on the basis of these arguments, i support the motion to waive the parliamentary immunity of alexander alvaro.
in writing. the cologne prosecutor general intends to carry out an investigation into the serious road traffic accident involving mr alexander alvaro. since this procedure is in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure and the treaty of lisbon, i am in favour of this request for waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which advances a new agenda for consumer policy at european level, and it is important to give priority to issues such as social and environmental sustainability, food and product safety, the digital environment or the strengthening of measures to protect vulnerable consumers. we must therefore respond with this new agenda to the challenges of globalisation, the economic crisis and its impact on various consumer groups and contribute to a low-carbon economy. in my view, this will only be possible with more effective, transparent measures, more information for consumers, in order to meet the challenges facing consumers in a globalised world, in order to have a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. − in may 2012, the european commission published a draft consumer agenda that provides for a set of consumer initiatives for the period 2014-2020. european consumers face new challenges arising from the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, the digitalisation of the economy and the ageing of the population. this new agenda should ensure: food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products. it is essential that food safety and labelling issues are included in the consumer agenda, as well as consumer protection in the face of financial greed. european consumers should therefore have access to efficient, transparent, reliable and comparable information. on the other hand, groups of people who are particularly vulnerable because of their physical, psychological or age condition, or who become vulnerable because of their social or financial situation, require special attention to enable them to access the basic services and financial resources they need. the urgency of protecting children from advertising and harmful foodstuffs should also be stressed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − consumers play a key role in the economy. consumption is one of the main drivers of growth in the union. the current economic crisis is seriously affecting the purchasing power of consumers in the single market, and in particular of consumers in situations of vulnerability due to their social or financial circumstances. consumers must be able to exercise their rights easily and effectively in food, health, energy, transport, financial and digital services, broadband access, data protection, transport and telecommunications. it is necessary to provide better protection of the rights of vulnerable consumer groups such as children and older persons, in particular in the areas of transport, financial services, energy and ict. the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 will have to allow the consumer agenda to benefit from sufficiently ambitious funding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a new agenda for european consumer policy, because it includes proposals to strengthen consumer rights, the quality and safety of products, including foodstuffs, social and environmental sustainability, and compensation and protection measures for the most vulnerable consumers. it is necessary to ensure that information provided to consumers is transparent and to support consumer organisations in responding to new challenges, in particular those resulting from the economic crisis, and to ensure a high level of consumer protection.
in writing. − a year ago, the european commission published the draft consumer agenda which continues european consumer protection policies, ensuring in particular food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products. consumer rights and their protection in european legislation is one of the main pillars of the functioning of the internal market and so must continue in a new agenda adapted to the challenging times we are living in. the almost 500 million european consumers are essential for the effective functioning of the internal market and play a crucial role in the post-crisis economic recovery and in pursuing the objectives of increasing growth, employment and competitiveness in the union. it is therefore essential that the union has well-defined priorities for consumer protection policies and consumer market evaluation.
in writing. − the european commission intends to publish a consumer agenda in 2014 which will build on the european union (eu) strategy on consumer policy. this is a set of initiatives aimed at improving the protection of all european citizens, but in particular of the most vulnerable. the report by mr vicente miguel garcês ramón deals with a new european consumer policy agenda. in a globalised world, where more and more business is conducted via the internet, it is essential that european consumers have more and better information, especially targeted at the most vulnerable and unprotected citizens, such as children and the elderly, especially when it comes to basic products and services (food products and insurance services). among other things, the new consumer agenda should improve information, impose the precautionary principle, ensure a high level of consumer protection, guarantee product quality and support consumer information and support offices. i voted in favour of this report because consumer protection is very important and fundamental to the functioning of the single market, but in the face of aggressive advertising campaigns we must ensure that consumers are protected.
in writing. − the new european consumer agenda, launched by the commission in may 2012, is based on the defence of the proper functioning of the internal market and the objectives that were those of the lisbon strategy and that are those of its successor the eu 2020 strategy. objectives of liberalization and privatization of more sectors of economic activity, of market subordination of more and more spheres of social life. the report welcomes the holistic approach of the european consumer agenda and calls on the commission to come forward with legislative proposals. i mean, you share this vision. it also stressed the need for greater cooperation with the private sector, particularly in the energy sector, and for a strengthened competition policy. it advocates the application of legal action against member states which infringe, fail to apply or enforce single market legislation. it is the wonderful idea, always repeated and always contradicted by reality, that consumer rights are safeguarded by liberalization and privatization, by the single market (synonymous, in many sectors, with monopolistic concentration at eu level). the rapporteur's initial proposal, which treated consumers more like citizens and less like customers, was better than the one which eventually came out of the committee vote. we voted against it.
in writing. − on 22 may 2012, the european commission released a draft consumer agenda which continues the eu consumer policy strategy for 2007-2013. this agenda provides for a number of consumer initiatives in the period 2014-2020. i believe that the european consumer agenda should give priority to ensuring food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products. the agenda is also part of the final phase of the digital single market, which requires online consumer protection, legal certainty, guarantees of consumer rights and efficient and reliable delivery services in the transport of goods and services. the european consumer agenda should aim to give concrete meaning to the principle of the treaty on european union that the interests of consumers must be taken into account in all relevant eu policies. citizens who are particularly vulnerable because of their physical, psychological or age condition, or who become vulnerable because of their social or financial situation, should be given special protection to enable them to access basic services and the necessary financial resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on a new agenda for european consumer policy. the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, the digitalisation of the economy and the ageing of the population are new realities for european consumers and underpin the importance of this european parliament resolution with its contributions to the draft consumer agenda launched by the commission in may 2012, among which i highlight the protection of groups of people who are particularly vulnerable because of their physical, psychological or age condition, or who become vulnerable because of their social or financial situation, and who require special protection to enable them to access efficient, transparent, reliable and comparable information.
in writing. − the new agenda for european consumer policy foresees a set of initiatives for the period 2014-2020 that will prepare consumer rights organisations, citizens, parliaments and national governments for policies related to food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products. given the new challenges that the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, the digitalisation of the economy and the ageing of the population pose to european consumers, we must make efforts to ensure access to relevant and useful information. only by ensuring the financing of the activities of public authorities and consumer organisations responsible for empowering and defending consumers will it be possible to ensure clear information that will help consumers to make decisions in their relationship with the markets. i believe that we must give effect to the treaty on european union, which stipulates that the interests of consumers must be taken into account in all relevant policies of the european union, and i therefore voted in favour of parliament's motion for a resolution.
in writing. − european consumer spending is a source of wealth for the internal market, representing 56% of the union's gdp. for these reasons, it is important to protect and safeguard the rights of consumers. the information provided must be clear and accurate, and consumers must know their rights in the european digital market and in the services they use. the choices must be sustainable and efficient in themselves. the priorities of the european consumer agenda are food safety, health, energy and the security of financial and digital products, online protection, legal certainty and guarantees of citizens' rights. this agenda, which is part of the achievement of the single market, must be implemented through concrete initiatives to safeguard consumer protection and enable economic growth.
in writing. − the new european consumer agenda, launched by the commission in may 2012, is based on the principle that for the internal market to function properly, it must be consistent with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the new european consumer agenda thus sets out the european consumer policy and sets out the measures to be taken to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report welcomes the commission's holistic approach to the european consumer agenda and calls on the commission to come forward with legislative proposals. it also stressed the need for greater cooperation with the private sector, particularly in the energy sector, and the strengthening of competition policy. it advocates the application of legal action against member states which infringe, fail to apply or enforce single market legislation. the report's consistency with competition policy and the single market - for example, in welcoming new legislative initiatives aimed at creating a fully integrated single market to increase competition and efficiency and to offer more choice to consumers in the union - led us to vote against it, since the single market has been the cause of the enormous differences between countries in the european union.
in writing. - i support this report, stressing that although the data provided by the european commission indicate a change in implementation by the member states, the truth is that citizens' awareness of their rights under this directive is very limited, and it is necessary for european citizens to actually know their rights at european union level as european citizens. i therefore believe that procedures should be simplified so that citizens can have access to legal aid without the help of a foreign lawyer, and pro bono services should also be developed.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 on improving access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing common minimum rules on legal aid in such disputes is an important piece of legislation for european citizens, which aims to ensure that people with fewer resources also have access to justice in other member states. in 2012, the european commission presented the first evaluation report on the application of the directive, concluding that all member states are, overall, successfully implementing the directive. the main problem identified is that it is very little known. only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of cross-border legal aid, which means that citizens do not benefit from this right. it is therefore important to take measures to ensure greater awareness of cross-border legal aid, in particular among legal professionals. in order to improve the levels of competence, member states should consider designating a single authority in charge of transmission and reception in each jurisdiction, thus ensuring that the officials in charge of these cases have sufficient experience. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − in a true european area of justice, every citizen should be able to go to the courts and authorities in any member state as easily as in their own country, so it is important to remove any obstacles that may hinder access to justice. in this regard, a directive was adopted in 2003 with the aim of improving access to justice in cross-border disputes in civil and commercial matters by establishing common minimum rules ensuring the possibility of access to legal aid, in particular for citizens who do not have sufficient resources, such as representation by a lawyer, interpretation and translation charges, etc. almost ten years after its entry into force, i am pleased that the principle of crossborder legal aid itself has been successfully implemented in all member states, with only a few practical problems. however, the number of people who have benefited from it is quite small and it is regrettable that this added value is not being fully exploited due to the low level of awareness not only among citizens (only 12%) but also among professionals and national legal aid services. the necessary measures must be taken urgently to ensure that both citizens and professionals are made more aware of the problem.
in writing. − in a community that increasingly integrates aspects of its common life, crossborder disputes will tend to increase. this situation poses an unavoidable challenge to national courts and the european union to ensure that the right to legal aid also applies in these cases and is sufficiently known to citizens who may need it. the increasingly cross-border nature of legal relations will require an adequate response capacity on the part of national institutions and judicial officers, who will be more exposed to the need to deepen their knowledge of languages and of the law in force in other member states of the union. this interpenetration of legal systems will require greater demands on legal aid providers, who should be given specific training and preparation to enable them to carry out their work with a high degree of knowledge and professionalism, so as to ensure that the interests of those who will use them are adequately protected.
in writing. − article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that every person whose rights and freedoms guaranteed by union law have been violated has the right to bring an action before a court in accordance with the provisions of this article. (...) legal aid is granted to persons who lack sufficient resources, in so far as such aid is necessary to ensure effective access to justice. improving access to justice in the eu, including through legal support in crossborder civil and commercial litigation, is the subject of this report by mr tadeus zwiefka. if at national level the interpretation of the law is confusing, in the case of crossborder disputes it becomes much more complicated. i therefore welcome all the efforts being made by the european institutions to simplify and harmonise legislation so that justice is quicker, more effective and less burdensome. i voted in favour of this proposal for a revision of the crossborder litigation directive because by boosting consumer confidence we are increasing crossborder trade and driving economic growth. i also call for this regulation to be widely disseminated (only 12% of european citizens were aware of it) so that all those who need it can benefit from legal support.
in writing. − this report calls on the commission to make some amendments to directive 2003/8/ec on improving access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing common minimum rules on legal aid in such disputes. the rapporteur advocates, among other measures, the clarification of the european procedures to which the directive also applies; the clarification of differences of interpretation between member states; the dissemination to citizens of the right to cross-border legal aid; the development of databases of legal professionals with linguistic and comparative law knowledge; the defence of special training schemes. member states are encouraged to ensure the availability of pre-litigation legal aid and are called upon to sign and/or ratify the hague convention on international access to justice. the objective of ensuring that all citizens, including the poorest, also have access to justice in other member states when exercising their right to free movement is both fair and relevant. however, we distance ourselves from some of the solutions proposed in the report, such as the existence of a single competent authority for crossborder legal assistance or the prevalence of the definition of civil or commercial matters in eu law over the definition of member states.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 on improving access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing minimum common rules on legal aid in such disputes has been of great importance to european citizens, as it is concerned to ensure that citizens with fewer assets also have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising their right to free movement or benefiting from the internal market. however, better publicity is needed for such instruments, as most of them are not known to the public. i also believe that improvements should be made to this directive to make it more effective.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 on improving access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing minimum common rules on legal aid for such disputes is a very important piece of legislation for european citizens, as it aims to ensure that members of society with fewer assets also have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising their right to free movement or benefiting from the internal market. the commission's assessment of its application found that the main problem identified with the directive is that it is very poorly known: only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of cross-border legal aid. if citizens are unaware of the possibility of requesting cross-border legal aid, they are unlikely to benefit from that right if they find themselves in a situation where it would be relevant. in this regard, it is important to take measures to ensure greater awareness of cross-border legal aid, in particular among legal professionals. among other reasons, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which aims to help to eliminate the problems identified and to improve access to justice: legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial proceedings.
in writing. − legal aid should be granted only to persons whose financial resources do not allow them to access justice. considering that the thresholds for financial resources have different definitions in the various member states of the european union, and in order to facilitate procedures for both citizens and the authorities implementing the directive, citizens should be able to choose, in the case of cross-border requests for legal aid, between their member state of residence or the member state in which the court operates. cross-border legal aid also covers, in accordance with the directive, the additional costs involved, such as interpretation, translation and travel expenses. only the correct application of directive 2003/8/ec and awareness raising about the right to cross-border legal aid can ensure that eu citizens exercise their right to free movement and benefit from the internal market. in view of the third paragraph of article 47 of the tfeu, which provides for legal aid for those who lack sufficient resources, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which proposes improvements in this area in the context of crossborder civil and commercial proceedings.
in writing. − the document concerns the commission's report on the application of directive 2003/8/ec on access to justice in crossborder cases. all member states have a system which allows those who cannot afford to pay for their services to obtain the services of a lawyer. however, the provisions in force vary widely between member states, which complicates citizens' access to justice in cross-border cases. the parliament's report makes specific proposals to improve the existing situation. however, the major problem is that the directive is often not recognised, and a whole range of actions are therefore needed to raise awareness of the existence of legal aid in this type of dispute. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 on improving access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing minimum common rules on legal aid in such disputes. it aims to ensure that people with fewer possessions also have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising their right to free movement. the rapporteur welcomes the commission's report and notes with satisfaction that the commission has concluded that all member states are, overall, successfully implementing the directive. the rapporteur calls on the commission to amend directive 2003/8/ec in certain respects, considering that the next report should include the number of cases per country and that the european commission should take steps to raise awareness of the right to cross-border legal aid and also ensure the development of databases of legal practitioners with linguistic and comparative law knowledge and the designation of legal practitioners capable of acting in such cases. we didn't object.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that measures should be taken to ensure that lawyers appointed in such cases have adequate skills in the relevant language and in the foreign legal system. this could be achieved, for example, by creating databases of legal practitioners with these skills, if they do not already exist. in my view, in order to improve the levels of competence, member states could also consider designating a single authority responsible for transmission and reception for each jurisdiction, thus ensuring that the officials responsible for these cases have sufficient experience. taking this into account, and the fact that it may be easier for the authorities of the member state of residence to communicate with the applicant and assess his financial situation, this procedure would make the action to be taken considerably easier for citizens (and also for the relevant authorities) and would make the process faster. the commission should therefore be asked to submit a proposal to amend the directive along the lines set out above.
in writing. − intellectual property rights are fundamental to innovation and are a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy. economic growth and jobs depend to a large extent on effective enforcement of ipr legislation. piracy and counterfeiting represent an estimated €250 billion in annual costs for european businesses. on the other hand, infringement of ipr also constitutes a serious threat to the health and safety of consumers. this new regulation lays down clear rules for the destruction of illegal and dangerous goods entering the eu. this regulation will therefore enable the customs authorities to do their job more quickly and more effectively. a simplified procedure will facilitate the destruction of counterfeit and pirated goods without a court order, provided that the intellectual property rights holder agrees and the importer does not object. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i agree with this proposal and i voted in favour. it is very important to ensure compliance with legislation on intellectual property rights. i believe it is an effective solution. many counterfeit products come from third countries. in this respect, i consider it essential to give customs officials greater powers and legal tools to deal with this problem and prevent products from crossing borders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on enforcing intellectual property rights because i believe that better regulation of intellectual property rights is needed to promote employment and growth in the creative industries, for example, but also to protect consumers, particularly in relation to the counterfeiting of medicines.
in writing. - artistic, scientific, industrial and cultural creation deserves protection, and that is why there are internationally recognised intellectual property rights (ipr). these ensure the integrity of the creation/invention and must protect it against counterfeiting and piracy. it is therefore essential that the legislation applicable to ipr is effectively complied with, as this regulation seeks to do.
in writing. - in a globalised world such as the one we live in, with such ease in the reproduction and circulation of products, control over intellectual property rights becomes almost impossible. it is the creators who see their works reproduced or traded without any benefit, the states that lose millions and millions of euros in tax revenues and the existence of an anarchist society that does not encourage or reward intellectual activity. this recommendation for second reading is intended to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the action of customs authorities to enforce intellectual property rights law and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1383/2003. counterfeiting is a practice that affects many millions of consumers and manufacturers, with serious damage not only to the economies of countries through loss of tax revenues but also with harmful consequences for health, especially when it comes to pharmaceutical and/or food products. i voted in favour because this regulation will make consumers safer, protect the health of european citizens and ensure that the european union remains at the forefront of copyright protection.
in writing. - some slight improvements introduced by the council on the outcome of parliament's first reading, such as the exclusion of the parallel market from the scope of this regulation, are not sufficient to alter the substantive assessment we made then. the regulation aims to give customs authorities a greater role in the fight against counterfeiting, pirated goods (which remain at this second reading), infringement of trademark/copyright, etc. we are not opposed to greater supervision and control of this type of goods, by giving the customs authorities a more active role in this matter. but we remain reserved about the inclusion in this regulation of all infringements of intellectual property rights, generic medicines and non-commercial imports. when we voted at first reading, we also said that the definition of small consignment adopted raises many doubts as to whether it can be taken as universal.
in writing. − the eu should seek to ensure compliance with legislation on intellectual property rights. this proposal is in line with the union's longstanding policy and strategy on ipr protection. the protection of intellectual property encourages innovation and the implementation of measures has a positive impact on employment, consumers and society in general. the control of the application of ipr at the border by the customs authorities complements internal market controls and trade initiatives with third countries and in international fora. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - on second reading, i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to strengthen the capacity of customs authorities to enforce intellectual property rights at the border. the new regime extends the range of intellectual property rights infringements covered and maintains the competence of customs authorities to control all goods under customs control, irrespective of their customs status, while ensuring that high quality information is provided to customs authorities in order to allow for a correct analysis and assessment of the risk of intellectual property rights infringement. the directive also lays down the legal basis for a central database for the registration of requests for intervention and customs withholding duties and for the exchange of information between customs authorities (copis).
in writing. − in a global economy, intellectual property has become a decisive factor in europe's competitiveness. protecting knowledge is protecting europe's investment in research, innovation and jobs. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the illegal trade in counterfeit goods and the illegal exploitation of intellectual property rights (iprs). customs formalities have direct implications for international trade and it is of the utmost importance that enforcement measures do not become a barrier to legitimate trade. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − intellectual property rights are of key importance for innovation, which is one of the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy. in view of the increase in infringements of intellectual property rights and in the international trade in counterfeit goods, eu action is needed to safeguard european businesses, their jobs and their economic growth. the document makes some clarifications, accepting the proposals of the european commission, in particular the distinction between counterfeit goods and pirated goods. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report is based on the proposal for a regulation which is intended to give customs authorities an increased role in the fight against counterfeiting, pirated goods, infringement of trademark/copyright, etc. we are not opposed to greater supervision and control of this type of goods, and it does not seem inconsistent that once this decision has been taken, it should be made compulsory for the customs authorities to play a more active role in this matter. however, the report does raise some issues which we cannot follow up, since it seeks to include in this regulation all infringements of intellectual property rights, generic medicines and non-commercial imports.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the main concern of consumer organisations is that certain foods are improperly covered by special designations/statutes under the current framework directive. these interested parties stressed that no specific nutritional need or consumer protection justifies compositional or labelling requirements and that no special status should be given to foods. this is especially true where this status allows the food to bear a statement of suitability which could be confused with a nutrition or health claim or make the food appear more appropriate than a similar normal food. in order to avoid these problems, it is urgent and necessary to ensure uniform protection of citizens at european union level, in order to avoid false or ambiguous labelling of products offered to consumers, especially in relation to the foodstuffs in question.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to protect consumers and to make it easier to distinguish between foodstuffs for everyday consumption and those intended for specific groups. the new regulation clarifies the rules on the labelling and composition of cereal-based foods, foods for particular medicinal purposes and whole-food substitutes for weight control. the document also includes a restricted list of substances, such as vitamins and mineral salts, that can be added to these foods. the commission should also consider whether specific provisions are necessary for sports nutrition. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that new legislation is needed on the labelling and composition of foods for infants and young children, foods for particular medical purposes and whole-food dietary supplements for weight control. i believe that consumers need to be protected and that it is necessary to make it easier to distinguish between food for everyday consumption and food for specific groups. i agree that the new regulation should clarify the rules on the labelling and composition of infant formulae and follow-on formulae, processed cereal-based foods, foods for particular medicinal purposes and whole-food dietary supplements for weight control. i also think it is important that the document also includes a restricted list of substances, such as vitamins and mineral salts, which can be added to these foods.
in writing. − this initiative aims to amend the 2009 directive on food intended for particular nutritional uses, i.e. specially manufactured products intended to meet the particular nutritional requirements of specific categories of the population. given that the wording of the directive was still based on provisions adopted in 1977, it is necessary to carry out an overall review in order to take account of developments in the food market and food law over the last 30 years. i therefore support this proposal which aims to simplify and clarify the rules, also correcting any errors and gaps that may exist. the concept of dietary foods is abolished and a new framework is created which sets general provisions only for a limited number of well-established and defined food categories which are considered as essential for certain vulnerable groups of the population, such as infants, young children and patients under medical supervision. this is an important step towards greater harmonisation, eliminating the differences between national legislation relating to such foodstuffs, thus allowing their free movement within the single market and creating a level playing field.
in writing. - as i have said before, it is essential to promote proper regulation of food labelling. we cannot legislate on healthy eating, but we must ensure that consumers have the information they need to make an informed choice. this is particularly important in the diet for infants and children and for people with special medical needs. this proposal lays down stricter and clearer rules on labelling, presentation and advertising. these standards cover not only infant formula and food but also food intolerances and low-calorie diets. the labelling, presentation and advertising of these foods should be clear and easy to understand for consumers.
in writing. the report by mrs frédérique ries is on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on foods for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and complete diet replacements for weight control. this regulation repeals council directive 92/52/eec, commission directives 96/8/ec, 1999/21/ec, 2006/125/ec and 2006/141/ec, directive 2009/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council and commission regulations (ec) no 41/2009 and (ec) no 953/2009 and is therefore to be repealed. i agree with this proposal because i believe it is in line with the commission's policy called better regulation, the lisbon strategy and the eu's sustainable development strategy. this proposal follows the path of simplifying the regulatory process, thereby reducing the administrative burden and improving the competitiveness of the european food industry, while ensuring food safety, maintaining a high level of public health protection and taking into account global aspects.
in writing. - after a long process following the adoption of the report at first reading, the council, commission and parliament reached an agreement which is now to be adopted at second reading in plenary and follow up a regulation on foods for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and complete diet replacements for weight control. the commission annexes to the legislative resolution an annex clarifying that it will pay particular attention to pesticides containing active substances, protective agents or synergists that are classified as mutagenic, carcinogenic, toxic or considered to have endocrine disrupting properties that may cause harmful effects in humans. we consider it essential that in the future progress be made in limiting or prohibiting the presence of residues of certain pesticides. it is also imperative to use the utmost transparency and to ensure that all relevant information is provided to the consumer. the regulation includes rules for whole-food diet replacements for weight control to prevent breaches of rules and fraudulent market practices by food business operators. the commission should draw up a report on the need for special devices for milk drinks intended for younger children. we voted in favour.
in writing. − this new legislation on the labelling and composition of foods for infants and young children, foods for special medical purposes and whole food dietary supplements for weight control is extremely important. the adoption of this instrument, we believe, will help to protect consumers and make it easier to distinguish between food for everyday consumption and food intended for specific groups. by clarifying the rules on the labelling and composition of infant formulae and follow-on formulae, processed cereal-based foods, foods for particular medical purposes and complete diet replacements for weight control, parliament is helping consumers to understand the products concerned. the document also includes a restricted list of substances, such as vitamins and mineral salts, that can be added to these foods.
in writing. - on second reading, i voted in favour of this proposal. following the adoption of parliament's position at first reading, informal negotiations were opened with the cypriot presidency at the plenary session of 14 june 2012 with a view to reaching a swift second reading agreement on foods for infants and young children and foods for special medical purposes. after three rounds of trilogues, the negotiating team of parliament and the council reached an agreement on this dossier on 14 november 2012. the text of the agreement was voted in the envi committee on 18 december 2012 and approved by an overwhelming majority. following the final legal and linguistic verification, the council adopted its position at first reading confirming the agreement on 22 april 2013. parliament confirms that agreement today with my vote. i would point out from the agreement that the commission may adopt technical guidelines to facilitate compliance by food business operators, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, with the provisions on compositional and information requirements and the union list of substances.
in writing. − the regulation replaces directive 2009/39/ec on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses and also replaces a number of commission acts necessary for the implementation of this directive. the new regulation aims to clarify the legal framework for food for certain vulnerable persons, avoiding overlap between the specific legislation applicable to such food and the legislation applicable to normal food. moreover, the regulation is intended to address any legal gaps in the existing system by ensuring that eu rules on such products are applied in the same way in all member states. the draft legislative resolution will thus contribute to providing greater legal clarity in the interest of consumers and producers and to preventing possible distortions in the internal market by laying down general compositional and information requirements for foods for infants and young children, foods for particular medical purposes and whole-food substitutes for weight control. i supported the draft legislative resolution in plenary, which gives the commission the power to adopt delegated acts and to lay down specific compositional and information requirements for each category of food.
in writing. − the strategy paper on foods for infants and young children and foods for special medical purposes presents a set of value-added proposals for this population group, in particular with regard to the abolition of the concept of dietary foods. it also provides for a new framework which sets general provisions only for a limited number of well-established and defined food categories which are considered to be essential for certain vulnerable groups of the population. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed are beneficial to the population, particularly as regards food for infants and young children and food for patients under medical supervision.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that we finally have an agreement which will guarantee the safety of workers in relation to exposure to electromagnetic fields. at the request of parliament we now have a guarantee that responses will be developed to prevent the effects of exposure to these electromagnetic fields. this is important in order to maintain transparency in public health matters, which is why i welcome this particular legislation.
in writing. − exposure to electromagnetic fields has short-term and long-term effects. however, scientific studies on this subject are not yet conclusive. the european parliament and the council adopted directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents. the transposition of this directive has been delayed due to the negative impact it could have on the use and development of the magnetic resonance imaging (mri) technique. i voted in favour of this text which proposes to exempt mra and related activities from exposure limit values. i agree with the need for the european commission and the member states to intensify research into the long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur and welcome the fact that the new rules to improve the protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic radiation have been adopted. it seems important to me that legislation incorporates new international exposure limits, gives some flexibility to the military and magnetic resonance imaging (mri) sectors, and obliges employers to assess and reduce risks. this legislation covers all sectors but mainly concerns workers exposed to a level of risk, for example in the steel industry or people working long hours near tv and radio broadcasting stations and radar installations.
in writing. the commission proposes to amend the directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from electromagnetic fields. the question is to protect workers on the one hand, while at the same time protecting the use and development of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) technology, which is indispensable for the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. in view of the very specific technical nature of this legislation, i am following the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. − in 2004, the 20th special directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 89/391/eec was adopted, but it was not implemented because it had been criticised for having harmful implications for european citizens. the report under review, drawn up by mrs morin-chartier, concerns the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). the objective of this directive is to provide the european union with a practical and balanced regulation which, taking into account scientific progress, not only ensures a high level of protection for workers who, by virtue of their occupational activity, are exposed to the effects of electromagnetic fields harmful to human health, but also allows their use in the medical field. it is a text which defines the harmful effects of this exposure, analyses the risk groups, creates medical supervision and calls for more and better information and training for professionals in this sector. in view of the medical advice and the fact that this is a scientifically updated proposal, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the establishment of minimum health and safety requirements for the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields) is of the utmost importance. in 2004, the parliament and the council adopted directive 2004/40/ec on occupational health and safety to protect workers from the risks of electromagnetic fields (emf), which was to have been transposed by member states into national law by 30 april 2008. however, due to strong pressure from manufacturers and radiologists' associations to exclude the medical sector from the scope of the directive, the commission proposed to postpone the deadline for transposition of the directive. first for april 2012 and later for april 2014. the agreement now reached between the council and parliament goes against the demands made by the organisations representing the workers. the weakening of the 2004 directive is evident. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health and safety of workers is not compromised. we cannot put off any longer the measures to safeguard health and safety at work, particularly with regard to electromagnetic fields. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to amend directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004 on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). in 2006, the medical community communicated to the commission its concerns regarding the application of this directive. the exposure limit values set therein would disproportionately limit the use and development of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), which is now considered an indispensable tool for the diagnosis and treatment of numerous diseases. subsequently, other industrial sectors also expressed concerns about the impact of the directive on their activities. the commission has therefore proposed amendments to this proposal to adapt it to the various needs of medicine and industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields), which states that the commission and the member states should intensify research and data collection on the long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields and provides that, as soon as there is conclusive scientific evidence on exposure to these fields, the commission should submit a new proposal to address the long-term effects of such exposure, taking into account the knowledge gained.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to amend directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004 on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). the directive sets time-varying exposure limit values for electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields. no worker may be exposed to values above these limits, based on biological considerations and the impact on health. the directive also establishes reference values for static fields and for time-varying fields. these values are directly measurable and indicate a threshold above which employers must take prevention and safety measures. considering that it is a priority for the union to ensure the safety and health of its workers and thus to safeguard compliance with the necessary requirements through the legislative instruments available, i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. − this report aims to amend directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents, thereby increasing the protection of workers. it specifies that employers must determine and identify the degree of risk, the protection of workers who are exposed to risk in accordance with the values set out in the directive, the reduction or elimination of risks, the training of workers and appropriate medical surveillance. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it important to have european harmonization for the protection of european workers.
in writing. − in 2004, the parliament and the council adopted directive 2004/40/ec on occupational health and safety to protect workers from the risks of electromagnetic fields (emf), which was to have been transposed into national law by the member states by 30 april 2008. however, due to strong pressure from manufacturers and radiologists' associations to exclude the medical sector from the scope of the directive, the commission proposed to postpone the deadline for transposing the directive. initially for april 2012 and later for april 2014. the agreement reached between the council and the european parliament goes against the demands made by the workers' representatives. in addition to exceeding the exposure limit values, there is a total deregulation of the 2004 directive. the derogation for the medical sector is extended to all industry. we cannot put off any longer the measures to safeguard health and safety at work, particularly with regard to electromagnetic fields. we are in favour of the urgent implementation of the right to health and safety at work, which must be guaranteed. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting with the council's error in dividing the commission proposal by adapting one part on the basis of article 43 (3) tfeu. secondly, to point out the violation by the council of not consulting either the european parliament or the european economic and social committee. i therefore support the european commission's position to bring an action before the court against the council. the council refuses to accept that, under the lisbon treaty, it no longer has the right to act on its own, which leads me to support the position of parliament and the commission when they demand, under article 43 (2) of the treaty, the right to access the management of multiannual plans under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks - 2 because it introduces the necessary adaptations to the lisbon treaty and allows for the creation of legal certainty to ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks, based on maximum sustainable yield.
in writing. - the importance of cod to portuguese consumers is well known. it forms the basis of many of the most important dishes made in portugal and has been a prominent feature of the gastronomic culture of my country for centuries. the concern that this issue raises is therefore fully understandable. a fair balance will have to be struck between the legitimate rights of european fleets to fish for cod, so as to guarantee consumers' access to this fish and, on the other hand, to do so in such a way that fishing effort does not compromise the capacity of the species to replenish its stocks. this joint effort calls for the commitment of the european institutions, the member states, the scientific community and those interested in this activity. everyone's contribution is essential if practical management of cod stocks is to be possible and if fisheries are not burdened with excessive and unreasonable bureaucratic requirements that threaten the survival of the sector. i am aware of the dispute between parliament and the commission and the council and i hope that this dispute can be overcome so that this question can be more clearly defined.
in writing. − the over-exploitation of marine resources is a matter of concern to citizens who are aware of the need for sustainable and balanced management of ecosystems in order to ensure the survival of the human species. the report we have just voted on by mrs diane dodds concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. over the last few decades, we have seen a reduction in some cod stocks that urgently need to be recovered. three years after the entry into force of regulation no 1342/2008, the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries carried out an evaluation of the multiannual plans for cod in the irish sea, kattegat, north sea and west of scotland and concluded that the results despite the short timeframe had fallen short of expectations. i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to strengthen and increase cooperation between fishermen and scientists in order to reduce catches with a view to replenishing stocks and by using other areas or fishing gear without jeopardising fishermen's jobs.
in writing. − the long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks (regulation no 1342/2008) was an effort to recover cod stocks in northern waters. three years after it was introduced, it was reviewed by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf), which published its assessment of the multiannual plans for cod (irish sea, kattegat, and north sea, west of scotland). recognising that it is premature to draw conclusions on the medium-term impact of the plan, stecf considered that the plan did not provide for a reduction in fishing mortality rates. it also pointed out that it did not benefit from the support of the interested parties. however, a plan that has the support of the stakeholders has a better chance of success, since actions by the fisheries sector are essential to its success. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur aim to strengthen and increase cooperation between scientists specialising in fisheries and the sector, taking as a starting point cases of successful projects in various fisheries, which have already been observed. the objective is to reduce cod catches and discards and to enable sustainable catches of other target species. we voted in favour.
in writing. − some problems have arisen in the application of this directive. as different methodologies have been applied to calculate fishing effort, when setting national reference values and when calculating the annual use of effort, certain member states have benefited from higher levels of fishing effort than those provided for in the plan. this amendment clarifies that, although there are different calculation methods, member states should use, for the calculation of the annual utilisation of their effort, a method identical to that applied when setting their national reference values for effort. the proposed amendment is therefore necessary to ensure that the plan works as intended. this will allow for better management of cod stocks and their long-term sustainability. all member states are thus on an equal footing.
in writing. − the aim of this report was to amend regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, on the basis of an assessment and a recovery plan for fisheries resources drawn up by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf). in this context, the amendments made to the commission proposal are aimed at achieving the priority objective of the recovery of cod stocks, taking due account of the views of the scientific community and promoting a desirable cooperation between the sector and fisheries researchers. the amendments proposed in the report are essentially aimed at reducing cod catches by retaining sustainable catches of target species and reducing by-catch discards. to this end, measures at area and gear level, an improvement in the method of calculating by-catches in mixed fisheries and the introduction of some flexibility in the control of fishing effort when selective gear is used and approved by the stecf are suggested. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed for this long-term management plan contribute to a balanced and sustainable exploitation of cod stocks.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, in the light of the evaluation of the plan drawn up by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf). the main legal action aims to improve and clarify as far as possible the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 identified as problematic in the evaluation. the rapporteur believes that such a change in the plan for cod stocks depends on the strengthening of cooperation between fisheries scientists and the sector, and that only then will it be possible to make a fruitful effort to restore cod stocks in the north sea waters of the european union. i voted in favour of the development of a new long-term plan for cod stocks, which would strike the right balance between keeping fishing rates at levels acceptable to the sector and properly reconstituting fish stocks.
in writing. the aim of the commission proposal is to establish a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, taking into account the evaluation of the plan by the scientific committee. the main measure of the proposal is to improve and clarify, as far as possible, the provisions of the regulation which are considered problematic. parliament has therefore moved forward with some amendments with a view to a long-term plan. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that corruption, money laundering and organised crime represent a threat to european democracy and its citizens, as well as to legal markets. in a time of economic and social crisis, all resources diverted from legal activities must be recovered and directed to the real economy, supporting legal work.
in writing. − criminal organisations have been expanding their spheres of influence, taking advantage of the new opportunities offered by the absence of controls at the eu's internal borders, economic globalisation and technological progress. they have a new corporate face, taking advantage of the considerable financial resources accumulated through their illicit activities, posing a real threat to the security and prosperity of citizens. although the eu has adopted several legal instruments with the aim of effectively combating transnational organised crime, there are still huge differences between member states, which call into question their effectiveness, and therefore it is necessary to ensure greater harmonisation and coordination between them. money laundering is linked not only to the typical activities of organised crime but also to corruption and tax crimes. in order to combat this effectively, a coherent and homogeneous legislative framework should be established, providing for proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and reinforcing judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. the fight against corruption in the public and private sectors must also be placed at the top of the political agenda, under the dual heading of repression and prevention, by strengthening the rules on incompatibilities, transparency, control of financing and the raising of funds.
in writing. − organized crime has taken advantage of the new opportunities brought by economic globalisation and technological progress and has become a transnational and global phenomenon with devastating economic and social effects. moreover, organised crime, corruption and money laundering, although still distinct phenomena, are now in many cases intertwined. the new sophisticated forms of organised crime, corruption and money laundering require effective and strong measures, and the globalisation of criminal networks also requires a global and joint eu response, and here is an important contribution to that end.
in writing. - organized crime, corruption and money laundering are a global scourge of very complex contours which must be tackled. the fight against this parallel economy, which escapes the fiscal control of the states and feeds an often well-organized underworld, is only possible through intensive cross-border cooperation. at eu level, it is estimated that more than €120 billion, which could and should contribute to economic growth and job creation, is not being controlled by the authorities. corruption, illegal betting on sports competitions, online gaming and tobacco trafficking are just a few examples of untaxed activities that deserve greater attention from cross-border investigation teams such as europol and eurojust. i voted in favour of the interim report by mr salvatore iacolino on organized crime, corruption and money laundering: recommendations on measures and initiatives to be developed, because i am in favour of the practice of an honest and responsible policy which puts an end to these shameful systems which harm all european taxpayers. we have an obligation to make european society fairer and safer by protecting citizens and returning money to public coffers.
in writing. − the report addresses relevant issues and contains some positive recommendations. however, the whole dimension of the prevention of organised crime, corruption and money laundering is grossly neglected. the repressive dimension prevails, not so much the necessary fight against the source of these phenomena. the report suggests that offshore and tax havens - a key element in money laundering - should be listed, whereas the urgent need is to dismantle them. nothing is said about the effects of the free movement of capital on the phenomena of corruption, organised crime and money laundering. the report unintentionally advances support for the so-called banking union, which, in addition to being a way of promoting concentration and centralisation of the sector, could be a way for banks to escape the regulatory and legislative control of political power. the fight against these phenomena must not ignore the fact that their results are all the more effective the closer they are to the reality in which they occur. the fact that the national structures responsible for combating these phenomena have been drained and weakened is a serious setback in this fight, which no supranational structure can replace.
in writing. - organized crime is becoming more and more worrying and is no longer a geographically limited phenomenon. increasingly, the traditional mafia-like organisations that exist in certain regions of southern europe have gradually widened their spheres of influence, taking advantage of the new opportunities offered by economic globalisation and technological progress, by forming alliances with criminal groups in other countries, and even on other continents, all within the framework of numerous criminal activities and profit opportunities. in this way, the influence on local economies, societies and institutions is an increasingly tangible phenomenon at all latitudes. this type of crime is now a global economic entity that operates on the basis of enormous illicit competitive advantages and fraudulently disrupts the legal economy. the use of new technologies and the prerogatives offered by the lisbon treaty will make it possible to combat this phenomenon less unequally and more effectively.
in writing. − organized crime is now a global economic entity that operates on the basis of enormous illicit competitive advantages and fraudulently disrupts the legal economy. i voted in favour of this interim report of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which calls for the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, as proposed in article 86 tfeu, in particular to combat, investigate, prosecute and bring to justice crimes against the financial interests of the european union, as well as serious cross-border crime.
in writing. the report focuses on identifying priorities for the development of a roadmap for effectively combating crime in europe and worldwide. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by terrorists. this is a global challenge and as such it requires a global response: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. i have to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of penalties for the use of drugs, but i am in favour of the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of penalties for the use of drugs.
in writing. − organized crime is a global problem which must also be tackled at world level. for these reasons, this own-initiative report presents a set of contributions with a view to creating a european response to this global problem. corruption and money laundering are often associated with organised crime. the union has had a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering since 2012, which, through meetings between academics, ngos, member states and european decision-makers, aims to create more effective european and national legislation. this requires strengthening judicial and police cooperation at european and international level and providing for the use of new technologies in the fight against cybercrime. this report sets out a set of guidelines which should be taken into account in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. - despite some positive aspects in this report, the general approach is to repress rather than combat it at its source as would be necessary. the majority of the ep does not exercise the necessary self-criticism of its responsibilities in this area, nor does the eu as a whole. on the contrary, it takes advantage of this report to move forward with further harmonisation of matters which are and should remain at the heart of the national sovereignty of the member states over their justice systems, such as the proposal to set up a criminal investigation body and an internal investigation agency, a mechanism to monitor the effectiveness of criminal justice systems and a european public prosecutor's office. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taxation of capital. nothing is said about the need to put an end to the free movement of capital and the phenomena of corruption, organised crime and money laundering which continue to flourish in this way. and the so-called banking union is supported, which, in addition to being a way of promoting concentration and centralisation of the sector, will be a useful way for banks to escape the regulatory and legislative control of political power.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that social housing is a right. it is not a cost, but a reproductive investment with broad positive impacts on society and the economy. the crisis should not be used as an excuse to cut spending on social housing, especially when the demand for housing is increasing. it is necessary to ensure that adequate funds are available for social housing purposes and to ensure consistency between the various european union policies in this area, including state aid, competition policy and the structural funds.
in writing. − in portugal, between 2009 and 2011, there was an increase of around 2000 social housing fires, reaching 119 000 fires. for every 100,000 people, there are 1,123 social housing fires. in the european union, more than 25 million people live in social housing. this report, although it deals with a subject of great importance for the member states of the european union, especially in the context of the crisis we are experiencing, went beyond its competence. national and local authorities have, and should continue to have, competences in formulating and implementing social housing policies adapted to the context of each member state. i therefore abstained in the final vote on this report, because i believe that the principle of subsidiarity applies to this matter.
in writing. − access to housing is a fundamental right, which can be seen as a precondition both for the exercise of other fundamental rights and for a human life in full dignity. it is up to the member states to define their social housing policy and to take the necessary measures to safeguard this right by allowing their citizens to have access to decent and affordable housing. the deep long-term economic and social impact of the crisis, in terms of economic growth, employment rates and levels of poverty and social exclusion (with 120 million europeans already living in or at risk of poverty), makes it necessary and urgent that member states, despite the differences between them, step up their efforts to address the growing need for affordable housing and to ensure access to decent housing for their citizens. the eu should support this effort by encouraging investment in social housing, notably through the use of the structural funds, for which a sufficient allocation should be ensured under the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - in portugal, in recent decades, much has been done to ensure that the most disadvantaged and those at risk of social exclusion can exercise their right to housing and have a right to a decent life. however, in view of the current economic situation and the fact that a number of member states, particularly those on the periphery, are implementing difficult fiscal consolidation measures and structural reforms, i believe that the role of the state should be to encourage competition in the real estate sector and to push for good legislation. in this connection, i would like to recall the recent legislative measures taken in portugal to make the leasing market more flexible.
in writing. - article 34 (3) of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that in order to combat social exclusion and poverty, the union recognises and respects the right to social assistance and housing assistance to ensure a decent existence for all those who lack sufficient resources, in accordance with community law and national laws and practices. the economic and financial crisis we are going through has made it difficult to realize the right to decent housing universally recognized by all states. increasing unemployment, wage cuts and cuts in social benefits make it increasingly difficult to achieve this right. i therefore call on the european central bank to facilitate the building credit that can stimulate economic growth and job creation. because social housing cannot be considered an expense but an investment, i voted in favour of the report on social housing in the european union by my colleague karima delli and i call on the eu institutions to support the member states in their policies to support social housing, thus contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives of reducing poverty, social exclusion and combating climate change.
in writing. - the so-called austerity policies imposed by the imf/eu and national governments have led to an increase in social inequalities, unemployment, poverty and the population at risk of poverty. more and more people and families are being denied the right to housing. against this background, investment in the social housing sector is an urgent social need. we appreciate that several of our proposed amendments to the report have been accepted, which has greatly improved the final version. unfortunately, formulations have also been adopted which place the policy of social housing within the euro plus pact and the so-called economic and budgetary governance of the european union, policies which have precisely conditioned public investment, destroyed public services and social rights which the report says it wants to defend.
in writing. − this report aims to show how the social housing sector can be a lever to help the european union emerge from the economic, social and environmental crisis. some 25 million european citizens live in social housing. all member states except greece have a social housing stock, the size of which varies widely between member states, particularly between the western member states and the newest ones in the east. social housing needs also vary within a member state, between urban and rural areas, and even within urban areas, between city centres and their peripheries. social housing is one of the possible responses of public authorities to the inability of the housing market to meet all housing needs and to ensure access to decent housing at an affordable price/income for all. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - it is estimated that 25 million citizens of the european union live in social housing. all member states except greece have social housing, although the size of the whole varies from one country to another. social housing is an instrument through which the authorities can provide adequate housing at affordable rents to certain segments of the population, as the private housing market is unable to meet the demand of low-income households. investing in social housing not only has a beneficial effect on the construction sector, but also reduces the risk of real estate or rental bubbles bursting. social housing, in addition to ensuring access to affordable, decent housing, also has a beneficial effect on other socially challenged areas. considering that social housing plays a key role in the implementation of key european policies, as it contributes to ensuring high levels of employment, social inclusion and cohesion, while promoting mobility and even combating energy poverty through its contribution to the modernisation of the housing stock, i supported this report which calls on the member states to establish and organise a parallel supply of social housing to complement the supply generated by private initiative.
in writing. − social housing plays an important role in european societies. currently, an estimated 25 million people live in social housing, a situation that could increase as the sovereignty crisis continues. in addition, social housing protects those considered to be most vulnerable, including the elderly, marginalised groups, young people and children and their dependants. although i believe that social housing can reduce discrimination and promote the well-being of those sections of society who do not find adequate supply in the market, i believe that each member state should have discretion to apply measures, the so-called principle of subsidiarity. for these reasons, i abstain from this report.
in writing. − the austerity policies imposed by the imf/eu and national governments have led to an increase in social inequalities, unemployment, poverty and the population at risk of poverty. more and more people and families are being denied the right to housing in a context in which the banks - thirsty for profits from speculation - have induced the generalization of housing credit as a preferred way to have a house. investment in the social housing sector is thus emerging as an urgent social need. we have tabled a number of amendments which have been taken into account in the report adopted, such as: the enshrinement of the right to housing, which must be achieved by guaranteeing citizens and families adequate housing that meets their needs and ensures their well-being, privacy and quality of life, thus contributing to social justice and cohesion and combating social exclusion and poverty. unfortunately, formulations have also been adopted which place the policy of social housing within the euro plus pact and the so-called economic and budgetary governance of the european union, structural policies which have precisely conditioned public investment, destroyed public services and social rights which the report claims to defend.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that women should be free to move and choose a profession according to their education and professional qualifications. sufficient financial support can be allocated to mobility programmes such as erasmus, comenius, grudvig and others. in order to ensure that women have mobility comparable to that of men, attention by the member states to work-life balance will be required. in addition, lifelong learning and education mobility will foster occupational mobility, while better services such as childcare facilities will facilitate women's integration into the labour market. the european union needs to act where member states have not yet demonstrated the ability to promote educational and occupational mobility, which in my view are key elements for the future of women within the european union.
in writing. - the unemployment rate for women is traditionally lower than for men, but since the start of the crisis this trend has been reversed. in fact, the female unemployment rate is now equal to or higher than the male unemployment rate, depending on the member state. there are significant gender differences in labour mobility. in the european union, men travel more frequently than women to look for work or to change jobs (44% compared with 27%). gender segregation in the labour market, wage disparities, the persistence of gender stereotypes and inadequate measures to balance family and work life are the main obstacles to women's mobility. i voted in favour of this report, which underlines the added value of women's educational and professional mobility for the european union.
in writing. − the right to reside and work in another eu country is one of the fundamental freedoms of the union guaranteed to european citizens by the eu treaty. the unemployment rate for women in the european union is 10.7%. there are significant gender differences in labour mobility in the eu. in order to improve women's integration into the labour market, multi-dimensional policy solutions are needed, integrating lifelong learning, work-life balance (especially for single mothers), tackling precarious work and promoting work with rights, a public health care network, a public social security system and differentiated work organisation practices at the request of women. quality education enables women to improve their employment prospects and skills, and ensures better integration into the labour market. clear rules must be guaranteed for women to facilitate their access to management positions. more women on boards increases competitiveness and productivity.
in writing. − the right to move, reside and work in any other eu country is a fundamental right guaranteed by the treaty to all european citizens. the mobility of citizens, workers and students makes a decisive contribution to strengthening european citizenship and the feeling of belonging to a common european area and ensuring cohesion and solidarity at eu level. the economic and financial crisis has had a very negative impact on the eu labour market, with a sharp increase in the unemployment rate across europe and particularly in some member states. this is why it is important to promote professional mobility in order to benefit from the advantages of the internal market, to increase its effectiveness and to promote economic and social progress. some 44% of men benefit from this mobility, with a much smaller number of women. it is necessary to promote educational and professional mobility and to ensure appropriate contractual solutions. it is important to ensure better integration of women into the labour market, which implies multi-dimensional policy solutions, integrating lifelong learning, reconciling work and family life, combating precarious work and promoting a whole range of rights.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of students and professionals is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery. moreover, the free movement of students and workers within the eu is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in our founding treaties, whether it be for men or women.
in writing. - in the 1960s, as is the case with many young people today, thousands upon thousands of portuguese left their homeland in search of another country where they could secure their livelihood and that of their families. the men left in search of work, while their wives, mostly domestic workers, stayed behind to care for the home and the children. because of the husband's departure abroad, many became known as black widows for walking around in black. these women, because of their low professional and academic qualifications, had great difficulty in finding employment, except in agricultural work. the new generation of women is now more qualified than the male generation, and the new wave of youth emigration, besides being the most qualified ever, is certainly the one that includes the largest number of women. since 2007, the erasmus programme has been promoting and supporting student mobility. of the approximately 3 million people who have benefited from this support, 60% are women. i voted in favour of the report on the educational and professional mobility of women in the european union because it is necessary to support and encourage their mobility if we are to achieve the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy of having 75% of the female employed population by 2020.
in writing. − while taking a reductive view of the role of education systems, the report contains positive recommendations, including the need to combat precarious employment and promote work with rights, work schedules compatible with work-life balance, a public health care network and social security system, and differentiated practices for the organisation of working time at the request of women; the need to defend the guarantee of social rights and the transfer of pension rights between countries; the need to strengthen the fight against direct and indirect discrimination against migrant workers and in particular women; the need to defend public childcare and other dependent services, pre-school education establishments, schools and medical services, as well as free access to public employment services. it is important to point out the tremendous contradiction between these recommendations and the political practice of european governments and the eu institutions themselves. contradictions that inevitably surface throughout the report. we are moving away from a certain view expressed here about the role of educational and occupational mobility, its objectives and assumptions, and about women's adaptability to the demands of changes in the labour market.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this report. although i consider some of the issues discussed here to be very important, i still believe that the issue of quotas should not be dealt with in all reports submitted by the emff. i am opposed in principle to the approval of any kind of quota for women. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in general, but against the clause which envisaged welcoming the european commission's proposal that by 2020 a minimum share of 40% of women should be non-executive members of the boards of directors of listed european companies with 250 or more employees and an annual turnover of more than eur 50 million. i do so because i do not agree with this positive discrimination which blindly forgets, among other things, the merit of each of the potential candidates.
in writing. - there are also significant gender differences in women's educational and occupational mobility. professional mobility is a strategic objective of the european union, as it increases the effectiveness of the single market and contributes to improving professional skills and employment levels - essential elements for economic and social progress. however, the commission's communication on a strategy for gender equality highlights that women who move abroad in search of employment are often offered the lowest-level jobs in terms of skills, pay and prestige. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. i supported this report in the plenary, hoping that eu funds for specific programmes would facilitate the procedures to be followed by national and local authorities in achieving the objectives of educational and vocational mobility of women.
in writing. − this document aims at an overview of the main aspects related to the educational and occupational mobility of women in the european union. women's mobility is essential to increase the efficiency of the single market and to achieve the europe 2020 target of integrating 75% of women of working age into the labour market by 2020. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − educational and occupational mobility, i.e. the possibility of working and studying abroad in decent conditions, must be guaranteed. but let 's face it . today, the word mobility is a euphemism in the language of the eurocrats for forced migration. because people, and women, are increasingly forced to leave their country to survive or to support their families. we strongly agree with the part of this report which refers to the need to combat precarious work and promote work with rights, guarantee the public health care system, a public social security system and differentiated practices of work organisation, at the request of women. but only at the woman's request. we do not accept the idea of flexible working or the use of teleworking, on the assumption that this is what women want. they should have the right to decide on their needs for reconciliation between personal, family and professional life.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by expressing my disappointment with the member states and, in particular, their lack of progress in developing this system. it is therefore important that the european commission take more decisive action through infringement procedures so that states reaffirm their commitment to this system. in this respect, the commission proposal, which proposed a regional approach, was unfortunately not approved by the council, which in turn made it clear that this measure should be implemented step by step until the european service is complete.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on an electronic toll service and a vignette system for light private vehicles, as i considered the creation of a european electronic road toll system interoperable between member states to be a positive step. portugal has been a pioneer in this field and has been successful in this, so the portuguese greenway system could well be adopted in the other member states.
in writing. - portugal has one of the most advanced systems in europe. it is always with some apprehension that we hear of a potential harmonisation of toll services at union level, fearing that this could jeopardise the functionality and convenience we currently enjoy. that said, it is clear that the creation of a common electronic toll service would be beneficial for road users and would allow for greater traffic flow. it can also be said that the seep is not operational and the project has not yet achieved results that can be considered satisfactory. it is therefore perhaps time to reassess it and promote its relaunch in ways that ensure the desirable interoperability of systems and mobility of citizens and reconcile them with maintaining the features of the most advanced toll services by adopting best practices at union level. this process should be carried out with the utmost rigor, transparency and rigour, ensuring that member states and consumers are provided with detailed information on the costs involved in setting up, operating and using the system. all interested parties should be invited to contribute to the further development of this service.
in writing. - mr jim higgins reports to us on a strategy for an electronic toll service and a vignette system for light private vehicles. the use of road infrastructure raises a number of problems which need to be solved. of course, we need to get funding for its conservation. it is absurd to require those who do not use the motorways to contribute to their maintenance. i therefore support the principle of user/payer. another issue addressed in this report concerns the method of charging for use. as far as possible, there should be harmonisation in order to facilitate movement throughout the european union (eu). the tolling identifier acquired by a citizen of any member state should be recognised on all eu motorways. by ending the queues at toll booths, we would be contributing to the improvement of the economy and to the fight against climate change. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need for self-financing of road structures and the adoption of a system which not only brings environmental benefits but also improves access to european markets.
in writing. the report aims to establish a strategy for a european-wide electronic toll service and a vignette system for private light vehicles in europe. at the heart of the argument is the principle of user-payer/polluter-payer as a key priority for the transport sector. the absolute application of this principle, which we disagree with, ignores the fact that, as we had the opportunity to say during the debate in plenary, road infrastructure responds to economic and social needs which cannot be dissociated from a specific regional and territorial context. these specificities must obviously weigh on the type of operation and functioning of each infrastructure, including whether or not tolls are introduced and who is or is not liable to pay them. the experience of the introduction of tolls in the scut in portugal reflects the disastrous results of the strict application of the above principles. we are not opposed to measures which facilitate car travel between the different european countries, in the context of safeguarding the right to a public, rational and high-quality road network. but this is not the view of this report, which does not address the concerns we have expressed, but instead advocates a harmonization of the service, imposing its adoption by the member states with sanctioning measures for cases of non-application or non-compliance.
in writing. - seep was a complete failure, so the commission should present as soon as possible a new proposal for a regulation to ensure that seep becomes a reality. we must therefore work together to have an effective seep. the use of online payment systems is essential to ensure price transparency as well as convenience, in particular for users not resident in the member state where the fee is charged.
in writing. - it is not too much to underline the importance of the higgins report on the electronic road toll system. the importance of the user-pays principle - and hence the collection of tolls - in the financing of road infrastructure should be emphasised. moreover, in an integrated economy based on freedom of movement, a mechanism for the interoperability of national electronic toll systems is essential. the current european electronic toll service (eets) established by the union is not being implemented and binding legislative measures for the operationalisation of that service are urgently needed, taking into account the technical solutions currently available. european citizens and businesses cannot continue to be victims of the unwillingness of some member states to ensure effective freedom of movement on the roads throughout the union. if there are two essential measures to ensure that european citizens have a sense of european integration, they are the abolition of roaming in telephone services and the effective introduction of an interoperable electronic toll service at union level.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission's communication states that the current system of the european electronic toll service is not working and needs to be redesigned. directive 2004/52/ec and decision 2009/750/ec aim to achieve the interoperability of all electronic road toll systems in the eu in order to avoid the proliferation of incompatible systems, which could compromise the proper functioning of the internal market and the achievement of transport policy objectives. the directive provides for a european electronic toll service, for which road use is declared electronically by means of a single on-board equipment. this equipment would in turn enable all drivers of light vehicles to pay tolls easily on any road or structure in the union, through a subscription contract with a single eets provider and a single item on board. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions and bodies.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the rapporteur calls on the commission to analyse the latest technological developments, in particular gps/gprs, in order to adapt road pricing to technology. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the document also makes a number of contributions to be taken into account by the european commission: data protection and privacy; online payment system; strengthening the polluter pays principle, with particular attention to the burdens borne by transport operators, smes and car users. i am in favour of a european electronic toll system that facilitates the cross-border mobility of goods and people.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached agreement on the schengen governance package. an agreement which is not exactly what the european parliament wanted (because we were denied legitimate codecision), but an agreement which represents substantial progress compared to the current rules by strengthening the governance of schengen. an agreement that protects the right of citizens to move freely and that strengthens the security with which they do so. let me emphasize six points: first, we have opted for a european system. the evaluation mechanism will no longer be purely intergovernmental but will have a european character. the european commission will no longer be a mere observer but will be responsible for overall coordination in the evaluation and monitoring process. it will be responsible for most decisions in the evaluation process: for the annual and multiannual programme, for preparing and carrying out on-the-spot visits, and for drawing up evaluation reports and recommendations. it will be for the commission, following an evaluation, to approve the report and to propose recommendations for corrective action, which should be adopted by the council. a number of european union agencies and institutions will also be involved. secondly, we have not ignored internal borders. the possibility of assessing whether or not illegal checks are being carried out at internal borders is explicitly provided for. we know how timely this is in the light of the situations we have seen in recent years in some member states, often inspired by populist national agendas imposed by far-right parties. thirdly, we have eliminated the double standards. the candidate countries and the schengen countries should now be assessed in the same way and according to the same rules. the schengen acquis should be strictly respected not only at the time of accession but also after accession. fourthly, the preparatory inspections are over. the lack of rigor of the current mechanism was also due to the fact that inspection visits were announced far too early. one of the most useful innovations of the new evaluation system is precisely the possibility of on-the-spot visits to the internal and external borders without any prior notice being given only 24 hours in advance. fifth, we give the evaluation a meaning and a usefulness. unlike the current system, which is not legally binding and where there is only a mere peer review, the new system has mechanisms with greater effectiveness and deterrence. it will allow for an accurate assessment of the degree of compliance with the schengen rules and allow for an immediate corrective reaction in order to dispel any feeling of impunity. member states will be obliged to solve the problems identified. sixthly, we have strengthened the democratic control of the european parliament and guaranteed access to documents. parliament shall be kept informed throughout the process and shall have access to all relevant documents, including the frontex risk analysis, the multiannual and annual evaluation programme, the evaluation reports, the recommendations for corrective actions and the action plans to address the identified deficiencies. it shall have access to the member states' replies to the questionnaires. this is a major step forward in terms of transparency and the right of information of the european parliament, which had no access to any documents in the context of the schengen evaluations. mr president, parliament has assured its involvement both in the current procedure and in future initiatives in this area. this commitment is made not only in a joint declaration between the three institutions but also in the text of the law which we are about to adopt. i thank commissioner malmström and the irish presidency for all their commitment and cooperation. this commitment represents a major step forward from the current status quo, by creating a new evaluation mechanism with a more european, more transparent, efficient and rigorous character. i therefore ask for your support for this commitment, which was only possible thanks to the united and strong position which parliament has maintained throughout the negotiations. i am grateful for the cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs and of all the political groups which have never refused to support me, even those which, for various reasons, do not consider voting in favour of the final agreed version.
the rapporteur. - i would like to congratulate cecilia malmström. the commission is the main beneficiary of this process and this is a sign that we are now having a community mechanism, as parliament has always advocated. mr president, four corrections to what was said in the plenary, thanking you for all the kind words you have addressed to me. firstly, it is not true that there is an exaggeration in the reintroduction of borders. the reintroduction of border controls will be exceptional, proposed by the european commission if necessary, and decided by the council with the involvement of the member states. there is no danger here. secondly, it is not true that the free movement of citizens is going to be weakened. on the contrary, we will strengthen free movement because from now on all attempts to illegally reintroduce internal border controls will be monitored by this mechanism. thirdly, it is not true that immigration can be a cause for the reintroduction of borders. we explicitly reject that provision in the bill we're about to pass. as the commissioner has already said, this debate is not about bulgaria and romania, which should already be full members of the schengen area. but it is a way of responding to those who are afraid of bulgaria and romania by saying that they can fulfil the conditions at the time of accession and not fulfil the conditions afterwards. as soon as we have this evaluation mechanism, all the member states have to respond to all the conditions at all times, which means that this pretext no longer exists against bulgaria and romania. finally, mr president, i would like to thank once again all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation, including those who will vote against but who gave us all the strength during the negotiation process. i would like to mention in particular the collaboration of mr enciu, who has made many suggestions, and in particular the close collaboration with mrs renate weber, whom i thank very much.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts of commissioner ciolos to provide agriculture with an adequate budget, we will probably have a much smaller agricultural budget for the period 2014-2020, which will probably force us to apply the financial discipline mechanism as early as 2014. the european commission decided to use the draft budget approved by the european council on 8 february as the basis for its calculation. with this gesture, the commission surprised us by accepting as final the budget approved by the council, thus ignoring the codecision and the existence of the lisbon treaty. it is a position which shows little institutional respect for parliament and which we strongly criticise. the alternative proposal we are putting forward is consistent with the negotiating mandate which was supported by a large majority and which was given to us by this same plenary in the negotiating mandate for the direct payments regulation. it is the only one we consider acceptable at this stage of the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework. we also support the commission's proposal to exempt farmers who receive less than eur 5 000 a year from this mechanism. this is a large number of farmers - about 80% of the total in the union - but they receive only 15% of the total amount. the positive discrimination against the youngest and the constantly proclaimed simplification objectives fully justify this decision. i therefore call on this house to adopt the report we are discussing today.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the commissioner has always shown an impeccable relationship with parliament, and we very much appreciate his constant readiness to dialogue with us. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the commission in this procedure. there can be no pragmatism or political realism which calls into question the balance of power between the institutions. i therefore believe that the attitude on this matter should be different, and i have already said so. i thank the members for their speeches, which essentially reaffirm the positions of parliament. i think that, whatever its content, this is a way for members to show their consistency with the mandate they have been given and at the same time reaffirm the defence of the interests of farmers in general and, for a good number of members, also of small farmers in particular.
in writing. my speech is aimed at appealing to colleagues in the other political groups to join the socialist group in voting in favour of not penalising the outermost regions in this regulation. the application of the modification to financial discipline to direct payments above eur 5 000 per beneficiary results from the reduction in the cap budget. since the posei budget does not contain such a provision and no amendment is made to it, there is no justification for reducing the aid paid to the beneficiaries of the outermost regions from this budget. in these circumstances, parliament should not include them in the regulation we are going to vote on, and this should be reflected in the text which will be adopted if we receive your fair support.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the banking and financial sector has been the epicentre of the crisis, and the achievement of reforms currently under way is a precondition for ending the crisis and ensuring sustainable financing of the real economy for growth. we keep repeating sentences like this one. but now we should deliver; we should deliver tangible results to our citizens. we have started a lot of work, we have to finish it, and we have to deliver. we call on the council and the commission. we welcome the news just presented to us by commissioner barnier on the delivery of pending proposals on financial banking services as soon as possible, in a very close timeline: single resolution mechanisms, banking structure, money market funds linked to shadow banking, securities law directive. but we want to put pressure on the council to act swiftly on key dossiers on which parliament has already adopted its position and is therefore waiting for negotiations with the council to start. on deposit guarantee schemes, i understand the point made by the minister, but this has been sitting there since february 2012. on the resolution framework, we are still waiting for the council, even if the european council has already announced this dossier as a key priority. and mifid. we emphasise especially the need to speed up progress on all dossiers related to the achievement of banking union. this is a masterpiece for the future. the adoption of the proposals for the single supervisory mechanism and crd iv, for a single rule book for banks to strengthen prudential requirements, are essential steps towards banking union. but to provide stability and protect taxpayers and depositors, this should be complemented by a well-funded single european deposit guarantee mechanism, and the resolution framework with the single resolution fund for banks. clear rules for the bailout and bail-in of banks in the event of bank failures should be defined to fully protect all depositors in all member states. finally, parliament has always taken seriously its responsibility to deliver concrete results on time. on crd iv and the single supervision mechanism, the ep acted within a very short timeline and still we had to wait for the council. on resolution, deposit guarantee schemes, mifid, we are still waiting for the council to negotiate and conclude. so my message to the council is: please stop making statements and promises; we need concrete actions, and we trust you, madam minister, to speed up the process and finish the dossiers.
mr president, commissioner, the policy of austerity has reached its limit. europe did not suffer a tsunami. europe has chosen and insisted on wrong and self-destructive policies. of course, there are some who benefit when capital and skilled labour flow from the periphery of europe to the centre. there are those who gain when the assets of countries, even those which are profitable - such as electricity, post offices, airlines, ports, water - are sold at a balance price, but europe as a whole loses. the imbalances within the union are growing more acute than ever, and the union is breaking up economically, socially and politically. the next council only has to take a decision to get out of denial and reverse the policy. the short-term agenda is known. it requires opening up demand in countries with surpluses, implementing at least one of the various investment initiatives that have been announced repeatedly, and creating an initiative to combat unemployment, with the awareness that without growth it will be only a palliative. it requires the creation of a social emergency pillar, because where social action is most needed is where countries cannot afford to take it. we must also ensure that banking union does not lead to a situation where deposits in peripheral banks are less secure than deposits in central banks, and we must prepare for the joint management of sovereign debt, and we await the commission's initiative on the creation of the high-level group. finally, mr president, the most important thing is to put an end to the troika. because the council is here, the commission is here... which of you is responsible for the abuses, the mistakes and the violence that the troika is imposing on the countries under its control? we must return to democracy, and that will increase confidence.
mr president, commissioner, and madam representative of the irish presidency, i would like to make two basic appeals here. the first call to the council is that the european council be aware of the situation which is being experienced today throughout the european area. the people of europe, the people of the different countries, are not waiting for mere bureaucratic decisions or for another step, however small, in resolving the crisis. the european people are waiting for an answer, and i believe there are signs today in different countries that if we are not able to give this answer, there will be extremely serious political and social consequences. the second point is very focused, very directed, to a subject on which i have worked, and worked a lot, in the committee on constitutional affairs, and that has to do with banking union. it is absolutely essential that we take a final step in banking union. it's been said here many times by many colleagues, but it's never too much to say... in fact, to say from a country that has a crisis that does not have a banking connotation. but we are aware that without solving this problem, there will be no possibility of taking further steps to overcome the crisis. i therefore ask the council to give a political vision now and to resolve the question of banking union as quickly as possible.
in writing. to tackle the serious social scourge faced by young people as a result of high youth unemployment, the president of the council, herman van rompuy, proposed the creation of a youth employment initiative for the period 2014-2020, with an advance of funds to countries with the greatest difficulties in employability. i also believe that other proposals to combat youth unemployment should be considered by european leaders, such as: european youth organisations have reached consensus on 3 measures to be implemented and which have already been advocated also at national level, namely the reduction of taxes paid by companies when they hire young people and the closing of the gap between training provided in higher education and the labour market, through the introduction of training programmes and curricular traineeships in higher education. finally, i believe it is necessary and important to promote young entrepreneurship by creating incubators for companies that are able to create their own jobs, and by improving the conditions for promoting venture capital firms and business angels.
in writing. − i approve this report, having regard to the act of accession of croatia, and in particular the proposal submitted by the croatian government on 25 april 2013 for the appointment of mr neven mimica as a member of the commission. furthermore, having regard to the hearing of mr neven mimica on 4 june 2013 led by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in association with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and to the statement of assessment made following that hearing, i approve the appointment of mr neven mimica as a member of the commission for the remainder of the term of office of the bureau committee until 31 october 2014.
in writing. − the croatian government submitted on 25 april 2013 a proposal for the appointment of neven mimica as member of the european commission, thus becoming the official representative of croatia in the college of commissioners. i am voting in favour of your appointment because the hearing held on 4 june 2013 by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in association with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was favourable to your appointment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed timetable. i know how difficult it is to draw up a balanced calendar, especially in an election year. i hope that this wording will enable the house to carry out a consistent and high-quality work in order to contribute to the solution of the concrete problems of the citizens. the question of plenary sessions in strasbourg remains, but it can only be resolved by an amendment to the treaties, and i should like to stress that it is clear to me that strasbourg is now a symbol of unnecessary costs, inefficiency and the slowness of decision-making in the european union. so it must be reconsidered as the seat of the ep.
in writing. - it is obviously natural, positive and desirable that changes should be made to the composition of the european parliament's standing committees in order to create the necessary seats for the entry of croatian members after the accession of this country. how desirable it is that they should be able to join the committees in which they express an interest. the same procedure should be developed for the delegations for relations with third countries, creating new posts. with the entry of new members of the european parliament from a new member state speaking a new language, other practical issues should also be taken into account, in particular their right to full respect for multilingualism, creating the conditions for croatian members to be able to express themselves and hear interpretation in their own language, as well as to read and write official texts in their own language. these concerns are all the more relevant as the current context of severe budgetary constraints resulting from cuts in these services is putting into question respect for the principle of multilingualism in an unacceptable way.
in writing. − the number of members in each standing committee must be appropriate to its legislative output. i agree with the numbering proposed now, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament decision on the numerical composition of the standing committees to accommodate the croatian meps who formally take up office on 1 july 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this decision which, following the proposal to that effect by the conference of presidents, sets the numerical composition of the standing committees of parliament with effect from 1 july 2013.
in writing. − due to the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013 and the newly elected meps, the composition of the european parliament's committees will need to be adjusted. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal, which will maintain the quality of the work done so far.
in writing. - i approve the appointment of the new member of the court of auditors, neven mates, representing croatia, as the european union's accession agreement with croatia requires that country to be represented in this institution. i am also convinced that, in view of your experience and professional background, you will be a valuable asset to the court of auditors.
in writing. − i wish mr mates every success in the important task for which he is appointed, and i am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with all his dedication and competence.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, as he did not provide sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i have therefore voted against the name of neven mates.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, which heard the candidate nominated by the council for membership of the court of auditors and voted unanimously to consider that he did not have the appropriate profile for the post, in this context, i voted in favour of this report which gives a negative opinion on the appointment of neven mates as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − according to article 286 tfeu, the members of the court of auditors must be chosen from among persons who belong or have belonged, in their respective states, to external audit institutions or who are specially qualified for this function and must offer every guarantee of independence. they are appointed for a period of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, is responsible for approving the list of members drawn up in accordance with the proposals submitted by each member state. the report of the committee on budgetary control gives a negative opinion on the appointment of neven mates as a member of the court of auditors, since both the written questionnaire and the hearings with the economist denounced his lack of interest in the position as a member of the court of auditors. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's decision to give a negative opinion on the appointment of mr neven mates to the council as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its aims are to control the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, adopts the list of members of the court of justice. given that he has been appointed by the croatian government, has all the credentials to carry out the job and has explained his intentions well in the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have decided to vote in favour of his appointment.
in writing. - i approve the appointment of mr george pufan as member of the court of auditors as the representative of the romanian member state, as his experience and professional background add value to the composition of the court of auditors, and as the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament has also given its favourable opinion.
in writing. - i wish mr pufan every success in the important task for which he is appointed, and i am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with all his dedication and competence.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i have therefore voted in favour of the name of george pufan.
in writing. - all the data presented and which underpinned my decision indicate that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been met, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the appointment of mr george pufan as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − according to article 286 tfeu, the members of the court of auditors must be chosen from among persons who belong or have belonged, in their respective states, to external audit institutions or who are specially qualified for this function and must offer every guarantee of independence. they are appointed for a period of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, is responsible for approving the list of members drawn up in accordance with the proposals submitted by each member state. as the mandate of the romanian member of the european court of auditors expired on 31 december 2012, it is now necessary to appoint another romanian member. the committee on budgetary control therefore assessed the credentials of the candidate nominated by romania, mr george pufan, and gave a favourable opinion on his appointment. however, i disagreed with the recommendation, voting against the european parliament's proposal for a decision giving a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint george pufan as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its aims are to control the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, adopts the list of members of the court of justice. because he was appointed by the romanian government, has all the credentials to be appointed and has explained his intentions well in the parliamentary committee on budgetary control, i have decided to vote in favour of his appointment.
in writing. - it is time to change the direction of the current policy which has led to widespread overfishing and worrying resource fragility, as well as to fleet overcapacity or market dysfunctions, situations which the reform of the common fisheries policy currently under way must definitely resolve. to do this, fishing must be carried out in each region according to the availability of resources, scientifically monitored, and giving priority to the communities of those regions that have always fished there and to whom the future sustainability of the activity in their waters is of greatest interest. in order to save the sector from depletion by preventing, deterring and eliminating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, there should be permanent monitoring. the commission proposal aims to strengthen its powers and clarify the list of non-compliants. it is important that scientific data and regular evaluation ensure the usefulness of their action in order to understand whether the monitoring of catches is effective. the fishermen are grateful.
in writing. - illegal fishing is a scourge affecting all coastal member states. its illegal nature makes it difficult to estimate its impact, but it undoubtedly puts the survival of threatened fisheries species and the survival of the sector itself at risk. it will be important for european fishermen who resort to illegal fishing to understand that they are putting their own activity and their families' livelihoods at risk. the european union, the fisheries sector, consumers and ecosystems have much to gain from an effective reduction in illegal fishing. the member states and the european institutions must mobilise to combat illegal fishing and hold third states responsible if they do not cooperate properly in this fight.
in writing. − the european commission proposal aims to align the iuu regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (regulation no 1005/2008) with the tfeu, in particular as regards delegated and implementing acts. the power to adopt delegated acts is proposed to be delegated, inter alia, in the following areas: to exempt fishing vessels from the obligation to report information or to set different reporting deadlines; to determine indicators for the inspection of landing and transhipment operations by third country fishing vessels; to adapt the catch certification scheme to certain fishery products obtained by small fishing vessels; to amend the list of products not covered by the regulation; to adapt the deadline for the submission of the catch certificate to the type of fishery product, the distance to the place of entry or the means of transport used. implementing powers are proposed, inter alia, for the establishment of prior notification forms, the establishment of procedures and forms for the landing and transhipment declaration. the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal as a whole. however, it proposes to limit the commission's power to adopt delegated acts in time to allow for a regular assessment of their usefulness. we voted in favour.
in writing. - illegally caught fish are often the most economically attractive. since these catches do not comply with environmental or social standards, among others, fishermen can usually sell it at lower prices. wholesale and retailers thus find it less expensive to buy this fish, although they may not always know that it was caught illegally. we must therefore fight all forms of illegal fishing. despite the great economic benefits for the players, this fight is not always easy.
in writing. − the aim of this report was to align regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 establishing a community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing with the new hierarchy of acts defined by the lisbon treaty. in the context of the harmonisation of this regulation with the new rules of the tfeu, the commission proposal reclassified the powers conferred on it by delegated and implementing acts. the commission has used two weights and two measures as regards the european fleet or those of third countries. in relation to the latter, the application of this regulation has been limited to the listing of non-cooperating third countries in the fight against iuu fishing, without appropriate and dissuasive trade sanctions; the commission has been extremely zealous in its approach to european operators, wanting to be more environmentally friendly, protectionist and restrictive of fisheries than other operators globally, including by introducing regulations that threaten their sustainability and competitiveness, severely undermining european operators who fully comply with the strict standards set by the eu. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the amendments to the regulation contribute to a more effective fight against the scourge of iuu fishing.
in writing. − in the context of the alignment of regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 on illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing with the new rules of the tfeu, the commission has drawn up a proposal classifying the powers currently conferred on the commission by this regulation, taking into account the distinction between delegated and implementing acts. in general, the proposed amendments relate only to the types of acts to be adopted and do not change the content of the measures. there is only a significant change in the procedure applied for the inclusion or removal of third countries identified in a list of non-cooperating third countries. the rapporteur welcomes the commission proposal, but notes that whenever the proposal for a delegated act is advanced, the delegation should be limited in time in order to allow for a regular evaluation of its use. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − in line with regulation no 1005/2008, the commission has prepared a proposal to classify the powers conferred on the commission in delegated and implementing acts. the proposal concerns only the type of acts and does not change the content of such measures. parliament welcomed the commission's proposals, but stressed that in the case of delegated acts, the authorisation to delegate should be limited in time to allow for regular performance evaluation. i therefore voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. − i approve this report, bearing in mind that the main objective of the directive is to ensure the highest standards of dignity for the treatment of asylum seekers with regard to their reception conditions, so as to guarantee them a life in dignity, in line with international law. i also welcome the intention of this directive to harmonise national policies on reception conditions in order to limit the movement of asylum seekers between member states and to reduce administrative burdens.
in writing. − this initiative is part of the package of proposals aimed at establishing a common european asylum system. the commission proposes to amend the 2003 directive in order to ensure a higher level of treatment for asylum seekers and to harmonise reception conditions, in order to avoid secondary movements resulting from divergent reception policies between member states. it also amends its scope to include applicants for subsidiary protection. it lays down a set of common principles, at the level of the delimitation of the grounds for detention, which should be exceptional and respect the principle of necessity and proportionality, in a case-by-case assessment; of the conditions of detention (they should be placed in specific detention facilities, with rare exceptions which should, however, safeguard a certain number of conditions. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to ensure that the right to education is respected and that the right to education is respected. this was the possible agreement to try to harmonize the rules for the treatment and reception of asylum seekers, seeking to bring them into line with basic human rights rules and principles.
in writing. − the most basic principles of humanity demand that the european union should seek to welcome asylum seekers with respect and concern for their welfare and that it should adopt high standards in welcoming those who need it. the maxim do unto others as you would have them do unto you has full application here. however, the practical difficulties in distinguishing between those who are actually entitled to asylum and those who use this figure to leave their countries without being exposed to any specific risk are well known. the indiscriminate reception of all those applying for entry into the european union would put social security systems under even more strain and would entail the immediate entitlement to a range of social benefits for those who did not contribute to the systems or belong to their national communities. all these issues and their seriousness necessarily impose the obligation that, without forgetting the humanity due to asylum seekers which i have already mentioned, the granting of asylum must comply with strict requirements and avoid abusive and fraudulent generalizations.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected and that the right to asylum is guaranteed. the text also includes provisions on the protection of vulnerable persons such as minors, unaccompanied minors, pregnant women and victims of torture and violence. we are not satisfied with the amendments made by this report. the report falls short of a much needed improvement in the conditions afforded to applicants for international protection. a certain view is not avoided that immigrants in general are abusive or even potential criminals. the eu has also provided a number of instruments to facilitate the exchange of information and best practices between member states on the implementation of the union's asylum policy and on the implementation of the union's asylum policy. the levels of financial support provided are very low, access to employment can be delayed and vulnerable people are not adequately considered.
in writing. - the proposal aims to recast council directive 2003/9/ec of 27 january 2003 laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers in the member states. the commission's evaluation report on the implementation of the reception conditions directive in the member states identified a number of shortcomings in the level of reception conditions for asylum seekers, which stem mainly from the fact that the directive gives member states a wide margin of manoeuvre in setting those conditions at national level. the purpose of the amendment of this directive is to ensure higher and uniform treatment standards in the area of reception conditions for asylum seekers during the second phase of the implementation of the common european asylum system (ceas). that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the proposal amends the reception conditions directive of 2003, which lays down minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers, and aims to ensure better and more harmonised treatment standards. in particular, it addresses the issue of the grounds for detention and includes an extensive list of rules and safeguards. it stressed access to employment, material support, health care and legal assistance, the availability of representation for unaccompanied minors, the identification of special needs and the facilitation of the commission's role in monitoring implementation. finally, as there is agreement between the european parliament and the council on important matters such as material reception conditions and health care, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the european parliament and council directive aims to ensure high standards of treatment of asylum seekers with regard to reception conditions that allow a decent standard of living in accordance with international law. the proposal is part of a first package of proposals aimed at ensuring a greater degree of harmonisation and better protection conditions for the common european asylum system (ceas). the commission's initial proposal contains provisions on facilitated access to employment for asylum seekers, the guarantee of material reception conditions (at the level of social assistance granted to nationals), and the underlying principle that no asylum seeker should be kept in detention for the mere status of his condition. i voted in favour of agreeing to the proposal, with the amendments introduced by parliament, which clarify and make the reception rules more flexible so as to facilitate their transposition into national legal systems, while maintaining the key elements of the 2008 proposal.
in writing. - this report is part of the asylum package which aims to harmonise and improve protection criteria within the common european asylum system. the aim of this document is to standardize the conditions under which asylum seekers are received, so as to provide them with decent living conditions and to reduce the phenomenon of secondary movements between member states. i would like to stress the important changes introduced by this proposal, namely access to the labour market, access to education for minors, and similarity in reception conditions as regards the level of social assistance offered to nationals. although the union's immigration policy is cloaked in national interests, this document points to the possible agreement between the 27 member states. for these reasons, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the position initially advocated in the european parliament's text (despite some equally negative aspects) has been watered down by the council, especially as regards unaccompanied minors, vulnerable persons, the right to legal assistance, the numerous possibilities for accelerated procedures at borders. it has also backed away from other unfounded and inadmissible application procedures which reflect a xenophobic and racist view of asylum seekers as potential abusers of the asylum system. the concept of a safe third country is maintained and the notion of a mass influx is introduced. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. but much more could and should have been done. nothing that has been achieved in this process changes the repressive and exploitative character of the eu's immigration policy, keeping it as a fortress europe that continues to use immigrants to the benefit of economic groups and labour exploitation relations, leaving immigrants in the hands of trafficking networks and failing to take its share of responsibility for this situation which is also caused by its foreign policy.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the objective of this regulation is to increase the efficiency of the dublin system and to ensure high standards in the protection of persons under the dublin procedure.
in writing. - the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person (recast), report by monica luisa macovei, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the eurodac fingerprint comparison system for the effective implementation of the regulation (establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person) and requesting comparisons with eurodac data by the police authorities of the member states and by europol for law enforcement purposes and amending regulation (eu) no 1077/2011 establishing the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (recast).
in writing. − this initiative is part of the package of proposals aimed at establishing a common european asylum system. it should therefore amend the dublin regulation of 2003 establishing the criteria for determining which member state should be responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the eu member states, in order to prevent asylum seekers from multiplying their applications in different countries. ensures a higher level of protection for asylum seekers by enshrining a set of basic rights, such as the right to a personal interview in order to determine which member state is responsible for processing the application; in the case of transfer, there should be a possibility of appeal against the decision, with access to legal aid, and a provisional suspension of the transfer. asylum seekers will have better access to information, in particular on their rights. the rights of minors, and in particular of unaccompanied minors, are also strengthened. a system of early warning and crisis management is introduced to enable the member state concerned to respond quickly to a given situation, in particular by submitting a crisis management plan, the implementation of which should be monitored by the commission and easo.
in writing. the european union must use more effective criteria and means to tackle the main issues and problems facing it. in the case of applications for international protection which necessarily involve highly sensitive issues, this requirement is obviously reinforced. it is therefore legitimate to expect that the european union will promote the adoption of clear and rigorous criteria for international protection, but that these criteria will be imbued with humanity and respect for the concrete situations of petitioners and that the criteria used will allow for uniform treatment of the latter within the framework of the european union. the particular vulnerability of these people is a factor that must always be present both at the level of decision-makers at a broader level and at the level of enforcement officers who have direct contact with petitioners. no one should be exempted from this consideration, even if it cannot be done without rigor, discretion and responsibility.
in writing. − this regulation determines the member state responsible for examining an individual application for asylum. this regulation aims to prevent multiple applications by the same person in several member states by establishing a set of criteria which generally place responsibility for examining an asylum application on the member state which allowed the applicant to enter or reside in the european union. the member state responsible for examining the application shall be obliged, in accordance with its national law, to take back applicants who are irregularly present in another member state. the provisions contained therein reflect a criminalised view of immigration and immigrants or asylum seekers. a vision that seeks to hide the fact that keeping these people in a limbo of uncertainty and precariousness subjects them to the most abject schemes of exploiting their work. immigrants and asylum seekers will continue to face a horrendous cycle of repression and uncertainty.
in writing. − the proposal aims to recast council regulation (ec) no 343/2003 of 18 february 2003 laying down the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national (the 'dublin regulation'). the dublin system assessment report published by the commission on 6 june 2007 identified a number of shortcomings, mainly related to the effectiveness of the system established by the current legislative provisions and the level of protection provided to applicants for international protection subject to the dublin procedure. as announced in the asylum action plan, this proposal is part of a first package of proposals to ensure greater harmonisation and higher levels of protection within the common european asylum system. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this proposal amends the 2003 dublin regulation, which sets out the criteria (what criteria?) and aims to better respond to situations of extraordinary pressure on member states' reception infrastructures and asylum systems and to situations where there is no adequate level of protection for applicants for international protection. the negotiations were long and the common position adopted by the council and the european parliament replaced the provisions on the suspension of transfers (closing of borders) by the creation of a rapid alert, preparedness and crisis management mechanism. this system aims above all to identify and address the root causes of problems with the potential to generate asylum crises. it also reinforces the message of solidarity and protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. − the commission's report on the evaluation of the dublin system concluded that overall the objectives of the system, in particular to establish a clear and effective mechanism for determining responsibility for asylum applications, have been largely achieved. however, some concerns remained, both in terms of practical application and effectiveness of the system. in addition, the responses to the green paper on the future of the common european asylum system (ceas) identified a significant number of shortcomings, mainly related to the efficiency of the system as well as to the level of protection of applicants for international protection subject to the dublin system. therefore, and with a view to correcting the above mentioned deficiencies, the commission decided to submit the proposal for a recast of regulation (ec) no 343/2003/ec. the main objective of the proposal is to increase the efficiency of the system and to ensure higher standards of protection for citizens who fall under the dublin procedure. i voted in favour, hoping that the proposal will indeed contribute to a better response to situations of extraordinary pressure on the reception infrastructure and asylum systems of the member states.
in writing. - this report is part of the 'asylum package', which comprises four reports. the dublin system evaluation report presented by the european commission identified a number of shortcomings and inefficiencies in the level of international protection sought by a third-country national or a stateless person. for these reasons, the ec has put forward this proposal which aims to make the system more efficient and increase the level of international protection. the common european asylum system is not a consensus issue within the union, but this document presents an early warning mechanism that identifies if a country suffers an abnormal influx of migrants, refugees and/or persons seeking international protection due to an external event, the case of the arab spring. this alert allows the union to put the schengen instruments into action and to strengthen cooperation and solidarity between the union's member states. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. − the purpose of this regulation is to determine the member state responsible for examining an individual application for asylum. it would aim to avoid multiple applications by the same person in several member states by establishing a set of criteria which generally place responsibility for examining an asylum application on the member state which allowed the applicant to enter or reside in the territory of the member states of the european union. the member state responsible for examining the application shall be obliged, in accordance with its national law, to take back applicants who are irregularly present in another member state. they continue to look at immigrants as criminals, as terrorists, as potential abusers of the charity that in many cases constitutes the aid that is allocated to them in the eu - if they ever get it. they point the finger at immigrants to hide from society that they want to keep them in this limbo of uncertainty and precariousness in order to subject them to the most abject schemes of exploitation of their work. immigrants will continue to be repressed, put in prisons as if they were criminals, will continue to wait for long months or years without knowing if they will ever get an answer and if it will be positive so that they will often be expelled and forced to return to their country of origin.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the aim of the directive is to tackle shortcomings in the procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection status, in order to ensure greater harmonisation of protection at eu level. i would also stress that i am in favour of the line set out in this report so that withdrawal of international protection status is done through personal interviews in all cases, that better information is given, greater legal clarity, clear rules on access to the procedure, identification of vulnerable persons and their special procedural needs, as well as clearer rules on time limits and greater understanding of the rules.
in writing. − this initiative is part of the package of proposals aimed at establishing a common european asylum system, which is expected to be operational in the second half of 2015, setting common procedures and deadlines. it therefore intends to amend the 2005 directive in order to harmonise procedural guarantees in asylum procedures. those safeguards should take into account the specific needs of the most vulnerable persons, in particular by creating a mandatory identification mechanism that should allow cases requiring special attention to be recognised and the necessary support to be ensured. the rules on unaccompanied minors, for whom a representative must be appointed, are also strengthened. asylum seekers are guaranteed the right to appeal, with the possibility of access to legal assistance, where their lawyer will have access to restricted areas, such as detention centres or transit zones. there will now be concrete deadlines for a decision to be taken on an asylum application, where the three-month period can only be extended in a limited and strictly defined number of cases. the rules on training of the authorities who have direct contact with asylum seekers have also been strengthened.
in writing. − a common european asylum system will result in greater standardisation of procedures when assessing the granting of international protection status to applicants and may help to reduce the pressure on certain member states judged to be more lenient in applying the criteria for granting it. the efficiency and quality of this system will be particularly relevant in view of the conflict situations currently breaking out at european borders and which could contribute to an increase in the number of applications for international protection. i hope that the partnerships which the union is establishing with its neighbours and the demands it is making on human rights in this relationship will help to reduce the pressure for entry into the union and for the development of these countries.
in writing. - the position initially defended in the european parliament's text - which was not, it should be recalled, without a number of negative aspects - was weakened by the council, especially as regards unaccompanied minors, vulnerable persons, the right to legal assistance, the numerous possibilities for accelerated procedures at borders. it has also backed down on other unfounded and inadmissible application procedures, which reflect a certain xenophobic view of asylum seekers, seeing them as potential abusers of the asylum system. the concept of a safe third country is maintained and the notion of a mass influx is introduced. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children in the event of a serious accident or serious injury. but much more could and should have been done. nothing that has been achieved in this process changes the repressive nature of eu policy in this area. the vision of a fortress europe persists, which continues to use immigrants in the interests of economic groups and labour exploitation relations, leaving them in the hands of trafficking networks and not taking its share of responsibility for this situation, which is already the result of its foreign policy (and not only).
in writing. − this proposal aims to recast council directive 2005/85/ec of 1 december 2005 on minimum standards on procedures for granting and withdrawing refugee status in the member states. the evaluation report pointed to the proliferation of disparate procedures at national level and to shortcomings in the procedural guarantees for asylum seekers, which result mainly from the fact that the current directive gives member states a wide margin of discretion. this directive is therefore not in a position to adequately complement the qualification directive and to ensure a rigorous assessment of applications for international protection in accordance with the international and community obligations of the member states as regards the principle of non-refoulement. this proposal is part of the initiatives to ensure a higher level of harmonisation and better standards in the field of international protection throughout the union. we hope that the measures envisaged will contribute to increasing coherence between eu asylum instruments and to streamlining and consolidating procedural arrangements in the union, leading to more robust decisions in the first instance, thus preventing abuse and increasing the efficiency of the asylum process.
in writing. − the stockholm programme, adopted by the european council at its meeting of 10 and 11 december 2009, underlined the need to establish by 2012 a common area of protection and solidarity, based on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for persons granted international protection based on high protection standards and fair and effective procedures. the commission has put forward a proposal. today's vote is the final council position reflecting the compromise reached in informal trilogues between the european parliament and the council organised by the commission. the essential objectives of the commission proposal are maintained and the final result is clear progress compared to directive 2005/85/ec. i would highlight from the final position the principle of frontloading (i.e. improving the quality of decisions taken in the first instance to limit the number of subsequent appeals) which provides a solid set of guarantees for all asylum seekers.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation recasts council directive 2005/85/ec, which is an integral part of the establishment of a common european asylum system (ceas), and is part of the asylum action plan. the main objectives of the proposal are to address procedural shortcomings and ensure higher and more harmonised standards of protection (thus moving towards a common asylum procedure and a uniform status); to improve the efficiency and quality of decision-making processes in the services, advice and expertise, and to encourage member states to deliver their decisions within a reasonable timeframe. the proposal also aims to simplify and consolidate procedural concepts and mechanisms and to improve coherence between asylum instruments. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report, part of the establishment of the common european asylum system, aims to recast directive 2005/85/ec on the granting and withdrawal of international protection status. this directive aims to harmonise and simplify the criteria for granting international protection in accordance with the different legal systems, in particular in procedures and their maximum number and in interviews. at the same time, member states strengthen their powers to respond to potential abuses of the european asylum system through the accelerated procedure, when it is demonstrated that an application for international protection is abusive. parliament also reinforced the minimum rights of applicants for international protection in the 27 member states, with regard to the right to be informed, the right to be heard and the right to free legal assistance.
in writing. - i approve this report, since i consider this fund to be a sign of european solidarity towards those affected by the crisis, even if the amending budget with an increase is not yet sufficient. i should also point out that in 2010 about a quarter of europeans, or about 120 million european citizens, were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the fund is thus an instrument to alleviate the most severe forms of poverty, particularly food deprivation, which we are currently witnessing in some of the member states. it is up to the member states to decide whether they want to use the allocations from this fund. the budget of the fund should, in my view, be reserved only for aid to those most affected by the crisis and not used for other activities of the cohesion fund.
in writing. - i have repeatedly opposed the end of european support for food distribution to the most deprived and called for it to be reconsidered. i am therefore glad that the idea is now being put into practice through this new fund and that institutions which have generously provided this support to the most deprived are not deprived of one of their main supports. i would like to highlight, because of the scope, rigour and humanity of its action, the food bank against hunger in portugal, an association which has already been visited by the european commission and which has high standards of management and implementation of concrete support, a good example to follow. i agree that the insufficient resources at its disposal will not allow it to cope with many of the situations which are currently plaguing the european union, and i hope that it can be strengthened in the future and that closer cooperation will be established with the organisations which, on the ground, are helping to end hunger and to meet the most basic needs of the citizens. a europe which also wants to be prosperous must look after those who have less and those who need it most and contribute together with the member states to the establishment of a minimum social network, a threshold which no one can cross.
in writing. − the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 13 april 2011 ordered the termination of the european food aid programme for the most deprived (efap), which was established in 1986 and had been in existence for 25 years. the cap was based on the european union's common agricultural policy and operated according to a logic of distributing agricultural surpluses to the most deprived. the european commission has proposed the creation of a new fund to replace the eafrd, called the fund for european aid to the most deprived (feac). the european council of 8 february 2013 reduced the fund from eur 3,5 billion to eur 2,5 billion. i believe that the initial amount is the minimum allowable, that co-financing should be 100% and that the participation of the member states in this fund should be compulsory.
in writing. the creation of this fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) is important but insufficient in view of the real needs of the population. the so-called austerity policies, especially those imposed by eu-imf programmes and implemented by national governments, have led to the increase of social inequalities, unemployment, poverty and hunger, among other social scourges. we note as a positive change, compared to the initial proposal, the increase in the budget to 3500 million for the period 2014-2020, corresponding to 500 million euros per year, similar to the defunct european food aid programme for the most deprived. we also welcome the fact that all member states must participate in this fund. although we voted in favour of the report, we are very concerned about the inclusion of the eafrd in the european social fund (esf), a concern shared by a number of social organisations. in addition to the increased bureaucracy required of social organisations to access the fund, the most worrying is the reduction that the fead will represent in the other esf headings, weakening its objectives, which will mainly affect the countries that need it most, such as portugal.
in writing. − through the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the objective of reducing by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million. this economic and financial crisis is aggravating poverty and social exclusion across the union. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an increase of 6 million in two years and now corresponding to nearly a quarter of the total population. more than 40 million are victims of severe material deprivation. one in ten people under the age of 60 lives in a household with low work intensity. the proposed support from the fund should not be considered as a substitute for the overall policies needed to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty, which remains a challenge for the union and the member states. i believe that the creation of a new fund for european aid to the most deprived would express the union's fundamental principles and values and the tangible recognition of the union's willingness to play its part in the fight against the challenges of poverty and social exclusion. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − respect for human dignity and solidarity are core values of the eu. according to article 3 teu, the union's objective is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples. unfortunately, in 2011, 40 million europeans were among the victims of severe material deprivation, and almost 120 million were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. it is therefore necessary to rethink specific actions aimed at alleviating the scourge of poverty and social exclusion. if the eu has only 2.5 billion to help citizens in need, while the us spends 100 billion to help households in need, we can conclude that the resources proposed for the esf are extremely limited and far from sufficient. the future of europe depends on our ability to stop the transmission of disadvantages from one generation to the next: children who are victims of material deprivation are in fact less likely than their better-off peers to reach their full potential as adults. i voted in favour of the regulation, hoping that the response to poverty and social exclusion will not be exhausted by the european aid fund.
in writing. − in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the eu is committed to reducing by at least 20 million the number of people living in or at risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. in its budget proposal for the next multiannual financial framework, the commission allocated a budget of eur 2.5 billion to the fund for european aid to the most deprived. this fund is intended to enable member states to distribute surplus food as food aid. this will allow member states to assist around 2 million more deprived people per year, with positive results for the health, social inclusion, employment and labour market of the population. i am in favour of the fund being applied to all member states, but i do not think it should be used for any purpose other than helping the most deprived. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the creation of this fund (fead) is important but insufficient in view of the real needs of the population. the austerity policies imposed by the imf/eu and national governments have led to the increase of social inequalities, unemployment, poverty and the population at risk of poverty. we welcome the adoption of the amendment, which, as we proposed, increased the budget to eur 3500 million for the period 2014-2020, corresponding to eur 500 million per year, similar to the defunct european food aid programme for the most deprived. we also welcome the fact that participation in this fund is compulsory for all member states, which could prevent member states who do not want to participate in the programme from lobbying against the existence of the efsd. however, we are very concerned about the inclusion of the eafrd in the european social fund (esf), a concern shared by a number of social organisations. apart from the bureaucracy required of organisations to access the fund, the most worrying is the reduction it will represent in the esf due to the inclusion of the fead, which will mainly affect the countries that need it most.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the aim of eurodac is to create a much wider information technology system containing the fingerprints of asylum seekers, and it was set up to facilitate the application of the dublin system. the aim of the regulation is to identify specific and clear rules, as well as harmonised rules in all member states of the european union, both with regard to the storage, comparison and deletion of fingerprints, while at the same time providing for data security protection. i believe that all of us as european citizens have a stake in this, as do all those seeking asylum in our member states.
in writing. − the powers of access to eurodac granted to law enforcement authorities should not affect the right of applicants for international protection to have their applications processed in a timely manner in accordance with the applicable legislation. in addition, a hit on eurodac and the subsequent opening of a procedure under council framework decision 2006/960/jha of 18 december 2006 on simplifying the exchange of data and information between law enforcement authorities of the member states.
in writing. − this initiative is part of the package of proposals aimed at establishing a common european asylum system. after 10 years of operation of eurodac, where the fingerprints of asylum seekers over 14 years of age are stored, improvements are needed to make it clearer and more coherent, to allow more effective support for the application of the dublin regulation and to provide for the transfer of the operational management of the system to eu-lisa. eurodac will play an important role in the fight against terrorism and serious crime, with national police forces and europol being able to compare fingerprints collected in criminal investigations with those contained in eurodac, while stricter data protection rules and the necessary safeguards to ensure that such data cannot be used for any purpose other than the fight against terrorism and serious crime have been introduced, and with full respect for the principle of proportionality in the public interest. i regret that the council has not been ambitious enough in establishing a solidarity mechanism to allow for a more solidarity-based sharing of responsibility for the relocation of asylum seekers with the countries of the south.
in writing. − the current terrorist threat recommends that the european union should not be too cautious or naive in dealing with questions of access to its territory and should provide the necessary conditions for the monitoring of third-country nationals who, on the grounds of asylum, are residing in the union. the eurodac system is an addition to this effort. the collection of fingerprints and their provision for comparison should be understood as a consideration to be paid by those who are hosted in the european union and who cannot ignore how this circumstance can lead to abuse and how criminal networks of various kinds infiltrate and operate in the union through asylum fraud. in accordance with the maxim 'no one should be afraid', law-abiding foreign nationals should regard this system as an additional means of identifying and punishing those who commit crimes while enjoying the protection and welcome granted to them by the union.
in writing. − we oppose access to eurodac data by the authorities designated by the member states and europol. fingerprinting asylum seekers was an extremely negative step. like us, many others have rejected this further invasion of the privacy of those who come to eu countries fleeing war, conflicts of different kinds, hunger and poverty - to which eu policies so often contribute. this proposal is a further step in this profoundly negative process which allows not only the storage of data, as was foreseen with the implementation of the dublin convention, but also its access outside this framework. it is therefore deeply worrying that access to eurodac data, i.e. the fingerprints of beneficiaries of international protection, is allowed for law enforcement purposes, even up to 3 years after the status has been recognised for these persons. this regulation is inseparable from a certain xenophobic view, according to which asylum seekers and persons granted international protection have a greater potential to commit criminal acts. we voted against it.
in writing. − the eurodac system was established by regulation (ec) no 2725/2000 and compares fingerprints for the purpose of the effective application of the dublin convention. this proposal is to withdraw the 2010 proposal and replace it with a new one, with the aim, firstly, of taking into account the european parliament resolution and the outcome of the negotiations in the council and, secondly, of introducing the possibility for member states' law enforcement authorities and europol to have access to the eurodac central database for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious crimes. it has become essential that access to eurodac for law enforcement purposes be taken into account as an integral part of a balanced agreement on the negotiations of the common european asylum system package in order to complete that package by the end of 2012. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to set up the eurodac fingerprint comparison system for the purpose of the effective implementation of the regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person and requests for comparison with eurodac data submitted by the responsible authorities of the member states and europol for law enforcement purposes and amending the regulation establishing a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. the commission proposal has a number of amendments which can be grouped into two categories: technical amendments (e.g. adaptation to the provisions of the lisbon treaty, references to the proposal for a recast of the refugee directive, internal references) and amendments aimed at clarifying the text. the other amendments aim to include observations applicable to the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. − eurodac was established by regulation (ec) no 2725/2000 on the establishment of the eurodac system for the comparison of fingerprints for the effective application of the dublin convention. the proposal for the recast of the eurodac regulation was drafted to ensure more efficient support in the implementation of the dublin regulation. the commission adopted an amended proposal in september 2009 to take account of the european parliament resolution and the outcome of the negotiations in the council and to introduce the possibility for member states' police authorities and europol to access the eurodac central database for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. with the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and the abolition of the system of pillars, the proposal for a council decision has become obsolete and it is now necessary to replace it with a new proposal, which already takes into account the tfeu. in view of the rapporteur's conclusions, i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution.
in writing. - this report on the amendment of regulation no 2725/2000 is part of the asylum package, where the european commission, through the eurodac fingerprint comparison database, seeks to ensure effective application of the dublin convention. the proposal opens up the possibility for the judicial authorities of the member states and europol to access eurodac data for the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences through european coordination. the data on beneficiaries will also remain available in order to monitor the abuse of the european asylum system, in particular by organised crime networks. as in previous reports on the asylum package, i am in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. − we oppose access to eurodac data by the authorities designated by the member states and europol. fingerprinting asylum seekers was an extremely negative step. like us, many others have rejected this further invasion of the privacy of those who come to eu countries fleeing war, conflicts of different kinds, hunger and misery to which eu policies have contributed greatly. this proposal is a further step in this profoundly negative process which allows not only the storage of data, as was foreseen with the implementation of the dublin convention, but also its access outside this framework. it is therefore deeply worrying that access to eurodac data, i.e. the fingerprints of beneficiaries of international protection, is allowed for law enforcement purposes, even up to 3 years after the status has been recognised for these persons. this possibility is based on an unacceptable xenophobic and racist principle that asylum seekers and persons granted international protection have a greater potential to commit criminal acts.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by stressing that free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union and the ability to move within the european union without having to face internal border controls is one of its most positive results. many people make use of this freedom, and public opinion often ranks free movement among the union's most significant achievements. i believe that the foundations of schengen cooperation are relatively solid. however, recent developments have shaken confidence in the ability of some member states to manage their borders in a way that does not undermine the free movement of persons within the schengen area. these incidents have challenged the balance that must be struck between safety and freedom of movement.
in writing. − the creation, with the schengen agreement, of a european area without border controls was an important step in building an open internal market based on the essential freedom of movement of persons. although this space is an invaluable achievement, the truth is that the balance between the necessary security within our borders and the fundamental freedom of movement has recently been a recurring theme. this is because there have been isolated cases of abuse and lack of control by some member states, which have raised the alarm about the possible need for the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls (which has also already occurred in some cases). i agree with the rapporteur on this point that a correct balance must be found which leaves member states sufficient room for manoeuvre, both in unforeseeable and foreseeable situations, to re-establish their borders, while ensuring a more collective decision-making process.
in writing. - this report provides for the possibility of temporarily reintroducing internal border controls in so-called exceptional circumstances for a strictly limited period of time. the exclusion of immigration from the list of possible reasons will be only apparent, since it is envisaged that assistance will be provided by frontex and europol, two bodies whose remit is largely (particularly in the case of frontex) to suppress immigration. it is considered that the reintroduction of internal border controls should be avoided for political reasons, as if the whole framework of this proposal were not based on political reasons. the whole hypocritical rhetoric of free movement of persons is thus once again brought to naught. they cannot for a moment allow restrictions on the free (or rather, unrestricted) movement of capital and goods. despite all the evils that the dictate has brought to the people. the people, as labour force, are allowed to move in so far as this serves the needs of capital (which controls the integration process). that's all i know. the extremely reactionary and securitarian nature of this proposal is clear. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and the ability to move within the european union without having to face internal border controls is one of its most positive outcomes. many people make use of this freedom, and it is unanimous that free movement is among the most significant benefits achieved by the union. however, in cases which can be explained, we may consider the possibility of temporarily reintroducing internal border controls. i agree with the principle of a more coordinated and collective decision-making process in the event of reintroduction of internal border controls. an eu right, such as free movement, which is benefiting a large number of eu citizens, should not be affected by the decision of an isolated member state. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. − free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union and the ability to move within the european union without having to face internal border controls is one of its most positive outcomes. many people make use of this freedom, and public opinion often ranks free movement among the most significant benefits achieved by the union. i agree with the rapporteur when she insists that migration in itself is not a threat to public policy and national security. i voted in favour of this report, which concluded that the european union must act to prevent a repetition of the events which triggered this debate and to give due consideration to the proportionality of any measure to re-introduce internal border controls. the free movement of persons, which benefits a large number of eu citizens, should not be affected by the decision of an isolated member state, unilateral national initiatives should be avoided as far as possible and the interests of europe as a whole in the security of the schengen area should be taken into account.
in writing. the rapporteur stressed that any attempt to invoke new pretexts, such as migration flows, in order to reintroduce internal border controls should be categorically opposed. in the event of possible abuses of freedom of movement, which may in fact compromise the security of union citizens, there are guidelines provided for in the commission communication of 16 september 2011 on schengen governance (com (2011) 561) which provide clear indicators on how to assess, in a consistent manner, a threat to public policy and national security. the rapporteur therefore supports the adoption of these guidelines and calls on the commission to act without delay, and also invites member states wishing to reintroduce internal border controls, and the neighbouring countries concerned, to discuss this measure. i voted in favour of the report because i consider that the free movement of persons and goods is one of the fundamental principles of the european union.
in writing. the schengen package includes two reports, one on the schengen borders code and the other on the evaluation mechanism. the schengen borders code lays down the rules on external border control and the abolition of internal border control and, in exceptional cases, its reintroduction, always as a last resort and after the application of other measures. this report stresses that migration should not be seen as a threat to public policies and national security. it also reaffirms that the reintroduction of internal borders should be a joint decision and that unilateral national decisions, such as those of italy and france in 2011, should be avoided. the possibility of temporarily introducing internal borders is also added, in the event of serious deficiencies being identified, by the schengen evaluation mechanism through comitology. i approve this report as part of the schengen package.
in writing. - the decision on the reintroduction of internal border controls should, in principle, be a matter for the exclusive competence of the institutions of national sovereignty in each country. the proposal to create a european mechanism to evaluate this resource or to decide to implement it externally seriously restricts this competence. the report which has now been voted on proposes that such decisions should be taken only as a last resort, to a strictly limited extent and for a strictly limited duration, apparently excluding emigration from the list of grounds which can be invoked. but contrary to what you have just said, it is planned to use the assistance of frontex and europol, two bodies whose competence is largely (in the case of frontex exclusively) to deal with emigration. it is also considered that the reintroduction of internal border controls should be avoided for political reasons, as if the whole framework of this proposal were not based on political reasons. this proposal is extremely reactionary and securitarian in nature and aims to manage external and internal emigration in the interests of big business and the exploitation of workers and to repress people who rise up against exploitation and in defence of the right to development.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that this new mechanism - with a more european, more transparent, more efficient and more rigorous approach - is a major step forward from the current status quo. it reinforces the tools needed to identify and address, at an early stage, any deficiencies in the member states in the implementation and application of the schengen rules, thus contributing to preserving the schengen area as an area without internal borders and to protecting the free movement of citizens. for all these reasons, and since satisfactory guarantees have been agreed to safeguard the institutional role of the european parliament, i recommend that this agreement be approved.
in writing. - the creation of the schengen area in the late 1980s and early 1990s was one of the greatest successes in european history. schengen is characterised by the absence of common border controls between the participating countries and the introduction of freedom of movement within the area. in november 2010, the commission presented a proposal aimed at establishing a legal framework for assessing the correct application of the schengen acquis. the commission is therefore proposing a new schengen evaluation mechanism which is more community-wide, more transparent, more effective, with more cooperation and better use of resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen rules are respected. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the creation, with the schengen agreement, of a european area without border controls was an important step in building an open internal market based on the essential freedom of movement of persons. although this space is an invaluable achievement, the truth is that the balance between the necessary security within our borders and the fundamental freedom of movement has recently been a recurring theme. i am voting in favour of the amendments now proposed to amend the schengen borders code and to find the right balance which leaves member states sufficient room for manoeuvre, both in unforeseeable and foreseeable situations, to re-establish their borders, while ensuring a more collective decision-making process.
in writing. - while this agreement is not exactly what the european parliament would have wanted, it addresses most of the concerns of our concerns and represents a substantial step forward from the current schengen rules, reinforcing its governance. it also reinforces the right of citizens to move freely within the schengen area by explicitly providing for the possibility of assessing whether or not illegal checks are being carried out at internal borders.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and support his position in favour of approving the agreement reached, since, although it does not meet all the expectations of the european parliament, the agreement responds to most of the concerns of the parliament and represents a substantial progress compared to the current schengen rules, reinforcing the governance of schengen. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the free movement of citizens in an area without internal borders is based on a context of mutual trust, in which each participating state is ready and able to implement the various legislative instruments that make up the schengen acquis. however, the schengen agreement, being one of the main achievements of european integration, deserves to have tools to support member states in fulfilling their obligations and reacting to critical circumstances that may put schengen at risk. however, these tools cannot, on their own, ensure that schengen rules are applied consistently by each member state. in this case, therefore, the only guarantor of compliance with the agreement will be a schengen evaluation mechanism, used to monitor the application of the acquis and to issue recommendations on any identified deficiencies. the current mechanism, which relies on the intergovernmental peer review system, is not strong enough to address all the gaps. the rapporteur has made every effort to achieve this, and has indeed made progress in relation to the current rules, which is achieved by this legally binding act, whose rigour and scope deserve my full support.
in writing. - the area of freedom, security and justice enjoyed by 500 million european citizens today allows the free movement of people, one of the main achievements of the european project. the schengen area and its acquis are based on the principle of mutual trust between the participating states. in recent times, several european governments have questioned this achievement in response to the unforeseen influx of migrants. the schengen instruments and evaluation mechanism show weaknesses, which may come from the intergovernmental system itself. the report therefore advocates more community method, more transparency in information between european bodies on european commission (ec) inspections and recommendations, and greater cooperation between the ec and the member states. on the other hand, national experts must be better trained and frontex must see its power strengthened and its resources used more efficiently. i am in favour of this report.
in writing. − the schengen acquis, which includes its information system (sis) and visa information system (vis), has been increasingly developed, extended and with new features for several years. these are policies which we have always considered to involve high risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens and have consistently been suited to the unacceptable and even dangerous objectives of the current security offensive, enlargement and the increasing communitarianisation of internal affairs in the eu, aspects with which we do not agree. the new proposal aims to establish a system for assessing the correct application of the schengen acquis in order to preserve mutual trust between member states as regards their ability to apply effectively and efficiently the accompanying measures that allow an area without internal borders to be maintained. the report proposes to carry out questionnaires and field visits as a basis for the evaluation at a mandatory frequency of at least once every five years for each member state. the same procedure is proposed for the annual programme, which should be based on the risk analysis carried out by frontex and provide for assessments to be carried out in each country, with or without prior notice. we have always rejected schengen and this report seeks to maintain and deepen it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that as multinationals the gas, oil and madeira companies have to declare openly in their accounts the exploration rights they pay to the governments of developing countries. despite the initial opposition of many in the council, our political group managed to strengthen it with new provisions that will enhance transparency and combat international corruption. the aim is to give the communities of rich countries the resources and tools necessary to hold governments accountable for payments received by multinational companies. as oil, gas and mineral exports are much more valuable than international aid provided to the developing world, so too many countries continue to be pressed into poverty.
in writing. − the aim of this directive is to harmonise previous pieces of legislation in this field and to introduce a specific regime for small and medium-sized enterprises in order to reduce the administrative burden for them when preparing their financial reports. rules are also provided for public-interest enterprises, particularly in the extractive industries. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome his efforts in the conclusions of the trilogues.
in writing. − the commission sets out as objectives of this proposal the reduction of administrative burden, mainly for small enterprises, and the increase of transparency and comparability of financial statements, for enterprises with a greater cross-border activity. the proposal also aims to increase transparency on payments made to governments by the extractive industry and payments for the exploitation of primary forests. the proposal follows measures taken under the dodd-frank act in the us. the rules require companies in the extractive industries to disclose in their annual reports payments to governments by category and project. the public availability of the information concerned shall promote transparency. these are generally positive measures, which we support. we cannot, however, fail to point out a larger issue. the reporting obligation cannot obscure the underlying issue: in 2010, africa's exports of oil, gas and mineral products exceeded the value of so-called international aid by seven times. it is not enough to call for more transparency. it is for this genuine continuing bleeding of resources that it must be stopped and reversed.
in writing. − accounting directives are often excessively burdensome for small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, for micro-entities, and the commission should continue its efforts to review these directives. micro, small, medium and large enterprises should be defined and distinguished by taking into account total assets, turnover and average number of employees, as these figures usually provide objective evidence of the size of the enterprise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the individual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings, in which the european parliament stresses that annual financial statements, drawn up in accordance with the prudential principle, must give a true and fair view of the financial position of the undertaking.
in writing. − the accounting directives deal with the annual and consolidated financial statements of limited liability companies in europe. there are a number of key objectives in the current review: reducing the administrative burden, targeting mainly small businesses; increasing the transparency and comparability of financial statements; protecting the essential needs of users; and increasing transparency on payments made to governments by the extractive industry and primary forestry. the consultations showed that stakeholders are generally satisfied with the current framework. in view of the above, and considering that the proposal contributes to improving europe's competitiveness by creating an environment conducive to growth and employability, i supported this report.
in writing. − this proposal aims to replace all the directives on financial statements and other accounting activities by a single new directive. the commission proposal introduces a specific scheme for small enterprises to reduce their administrative burden. the proposal also aims to harmonise thresholds to ensure that the reduction in administrative burden is taken advantage of by all small businesses in the eu. for these reasons, and in view of the importance of the measures contained therein for the activities of small businesses in the eu, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the express objectives of the revision of this directive are to reduce the administrative burden and simplification for small enterprises in particular and to make financial statements more transparent and comparable for categories of enterprises for which these considerations are important due to increased cross-border activity and a greater number of external stakeholders, as well as to protect users. however, we cannot support the arguments that this should be done in the interests of a better functioning single market. we think that the part of the report which mentions the payments by the extractive industries to the states is important.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that our political group has been pushing hard for this legislation for many years. i believe that new rules will increase investor confidence and reduce the short-term effects of the current financial crisis, as one of the objectives beyond transparency is to reduce the administrative burden on small and medium-sized issuers. thanks to the work of our political group, we are now able to ensure that the sanctions remain effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
in writing. − the transparency directive is a necessary step to ensure the functioning of the single market, in particular the functioning of a single financial market. it is therefore crucial to seek greater harmonisation of the financial reporting rules which companies must observe and comply with in the capital markets. i therefore welcome the agreement reached between parliament and the council which is in line with the increasing transparency of financial markets and the higher requirements for corporate governance standards.
in writing. - when adopting this directive, we stated that our opposition to this process, which is part of the lisbon strategy, was not only due to the loss of effective sovereignty in controlling financial services markets and their operators, but also to economic issues. the free movement of capital and the speculative nature of a market based on short-term and value creation are responsible for increasing volatility and the risk of financial crises, with consequences for economic growth and employment. it was 2004. warning words. the commission's proposal to amend the directive reflects some of the rules laid down in the dodd frank act in the usa. the rapporteur says that the amendments now tabled are essential to promote transparency on a widespread basis, in order to ensure a level playing field for eu companies and their investors. the removal of the requirement to report quarterly reduces the administrative burden on small and medium-sized issuers, but also acts to refocus shareholders' and the company's attention away from short-term objectives and towards longer-term missions, which will help to stabilise financial markets again in the aftermath of the crisis. we'll be here to check it out.
in writing. - the report on the analysis of the application of the transparency directive has shown that there are areas in which the system for transparency could be improved. it is also desirable to simplify the obligations of some issuers in order to strengthen the attractiveness of regulated markets for small and medium-sized issuers that are mobilising capital outside europe. at the same time, it is necessary to strengthen legal clarity and the effectiveness of the existing transparency regime, particularly as regards disclosure of information on the property of companies. the present proposal to amend the transparency directive is compatible with the objective of maintaining and, if necessary, strengthening the level of investor protection provided for in the directive and ensuring that the information disclosed is sufficient and useful to enable investment at an acceptable cost. the objective of the transparency directive is to ensure a high level of investor confidence, through equivalent transparency, for securities issuers and investors throughout the european union.
in writing. − in the face of increasing volatility in global financial markets, investors are increasingly demanding information on companies' practices. clearly, investors want to increase transparency to get a complete and accurate economic picture of investment and risk. in addition, the existence of transparency in terms of disclosure is an important indicator of sound corporate governance. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information relating to issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market.
in writing. − the report published by the commission under article 33 of the transparency directive (directive 2004/109/ec) shows that most stakeholders appreciate the usefulness of the transparency requirements of the directive and its contribution to the functioning of the market. however, despite the favourable assessment, the review of the application of the transparency directive has identified other areas where the regime established can be improved, for example by simplifying the obligations of some issuers: in order to make regulated markets more attractive to small and medium-sized issuers raising capital in europe. at the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the legal clarity and effectiveness of the existing transparency regime, in particular as regards the disclosure of information on company ownership. i have no objection to this proposal for a regulation and i have supported this report in the plenary.
in writing. − this directive is related to the transparency requirements that companies must comply with. the european commission proposes, among other things, to eliminate the requirement for a quarterly report in order to reduce the administrative burden, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. it is important to promote transparency in this area and to ensure a level playing field for european companies and their investors. so i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − i approve this report as it is necessary at this stage to take as a basis for calculating the financial discipline required for the requests submitted in 2013 the european parliament's negotiating mandate on the revision of the direct payments regulation, adopted in strasbourg on 13 march 2013. in its amendment to annex ii, parliament proposed the breakdown of direct payments on the basis of the ceilings proposed by the commission in its original 2011 mff proposal, revised to take account of the future accession of croatia.
in writing. − the non-completion of the multiannual financial framework has consequences in the most diverse areas of the union's activity. direct payments for the calendar year 2013 are not exempted from this circumstance. the delay in defining the mff introduces unnecessary uncertainty into the activity of the european union, its relationship with the member states and with citizens. it is therefore urgent that it be defined with due brevity. i hope that this ambiguity about direct payments, to which the rapporteur has sought to respond, will not harm farmers who are already so exposed to the unforeseen events to which their activity naturally subjects them. the european union needs a strong agriculture, with motivated farmers who do not want to be unduly harmed.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is reflected in the legal basis of the financial discipline proposal (article 11 of the direct payments regulation), which states that when the commission expects that the sub-ceiling for market-related expenditure and direct payments under heading 2 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) will be exceeded for a given financial year, it must propose a cut in direct payments by 31 march. the cut is calculated in such a way as to bring the planned expenditure down to a level below the threshold set. in this regard, the commission establishes that the amounts of direct payments exceeding eur 5000 for which aid applications were submitted for the calendar year 2013 will be reduced by 4,981759%, the reduction not being applied in bulgaria, romania and croatia because these three countries are still at a stage of phasing in their direct payments. the report presents an amendment whereby the cut applied to direct payments for aid applications submitted in 2013 is 0,748005%, instead of the 4,981759% proposed by the commission. excluding the crisis reserve to be set up by the commission outside the mff. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposal for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020 (mff proposal) sets out the budgetary framework and the main guidelines for the common agricultural policy (cap). on the basis of that proposal, the commission presents a set of regulations establishing the legislative framework for the cap for the period 2014-2020, together with an impact assessment of alternative scenarios for the development of this policy. pending the adoption of a regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework in accordance with article 312 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the level of the ceilings applicable in 2014 remains uncertain. as long as there is no clarity on the level of the applicable ceiling, it is not possible to determine whether an adjustment of direct payments is necessary in 2013 and the rate thereof, if necessary. this is a matter which must be given our best attention, so that there are no delays in payment.
in writing. − to ensure that the amounts for financing the common agricultural policy (cap) are in line with the annual subheading for market expenditure and direct payments, a financial discipline mechanism has been provided for in regulation (ec) no 73/2009. according to this mechanism, an adjustment of the level of direct payments should be determined when the forecasts for the financing of direct payments and market related expenditure indicate that the annual sub-threshold rate set out in the financial framework will be exceeded. the report, which rejects the proposed cut in direct payments, has my vote in favour.
in writing. − it should be stressed that, pending the adoption of a regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework in accordance with article 312 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the level of the ceilings applicable in 2014 remains uncertain. in the absence of agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, no financial discipline will apply to the financial year 2014, as the total amount will be calculated on the basis of the 2013 budget figures plus 2% inflation. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to make progress in the interinstitutional negotiations on the common agricultural policy, in particular on direct payments to farmers which are essential to boost economic development in some regions of europe.
in writing. − i approve this report in the light of the european commission's proposal and the recent developments, both in legal and practical terms, of the schengen acquis, agreeing with the commission on the need to amend the current schengen borders code. it is vital to keep in mind that the removal of internal border controls between member states goes hand in hand with the need for effective controls, deeper cooperation and mutual trust at the external borders of the schengen area. in particular, in this period, there have been urgent developments at the eu's external borders (e.g. radical political changes in north africa) which have profoundly affected migration flows towards the eu. in this context, i am in favour of amendments which improve the existing framework and which are mainly guided by two principles: firstly by strengthening the rules which facilitate, simplify and develop free movement within the european schengen area and secondly by supporting a strict framework for controls and security at the external borders of the territory of the member states.
in writing. - the adoption of the schengen agreement on 14 june 1985 led to the abolition of systematic checks at the internal borders of the countries participating in the schengen area and ensured the free movement of persons within the area. regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 march 2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders constitutes an important framework for the promotion and improvement of the schengen acquis. in view of recent developments in the schengen acquis, both in legal and practical terms, it is necessary to amend the schengen borders code. in this regard, it is important to strengthen the rules facilitating, simplifying and developing free movement within the schengen area and to support a strict framework for controllers and security at the external borders of the territory of the member states. the importance of concluding bilateral agreements between member states and third countries on common border crossing points is also stressed, as these agreements can serve as instruments to strengthen the protection and border controls of persons attempting to cross the external border crossing points. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the creation of the schengen area in the late 1980s was undoubtedly one of the greatest successes in european history. schengen means freedom of movement and the absence of internal border controls between the participating states. in parallel, it was necessary to create a set of compensatory measures in the management and control of external borders, the common visa policy, judicial and police cooperation and the creation of a common system for the exchange of data sis. as regards border management, the schengen borders code was established in 2006 and lays down common rules on checks on persons at the borders, as part of an integrated border management policy. i therefore support this report, which is basically intended to introduce measures of a technical nature dictated by the need to update the existing rules after four years of practical application. legal developments since 2006, and in particular the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, are taken into account. experience and any problems encountered by member states in their practical application shall also be taken into account. it also sought to introduce greater legal clarity in order to reduce the possibility of divergences in the interpretation and application of the rules by the member states.
in writing. − the creation, with the schengen agreement, of a european area without border controls was an important step in building an open internal market based on the essential freedom of movement of persons. although this space is an invaluable achievement, the truth is that the balance between the necessary security within our borders and the fundamental freedom of movement has recently been a recurring theme. i am voting in favour of the amendments now proposed to amend the schengen borders code and the convention implementing the schengen agreement and to strike the right balance which leaves member states sufficient room for manoeuvre, both in unforeseeable and foreseeable situations, to re-establish their borders, while ensuring a more collective decision-making process.
in writing. − this report aims to amend regulation (ec) no 562/2006, taking into account its alignment with the lisbon treaty and also some lessons learned from the practical experience of its application. the amendments focus mainly on clarifying the definition of the entry conditions for third-country nationals and the duration of validity of certain travel documents. the period for exempting the staff of international trains and buses from stamping their travel documents is also extended, as is already the case for airline staff. due to concerns about the increase in human trafficking in europe, training measures are included for border guards to better detect situations of unaccompanied minors and victims of trafficking. some of the amendments are justified and common sense. but we are not following the changes with a view to increasingly harmonizing immigration and border policies, which are known to be unacceptably repressive in content.
in writing. the creation of the schengen area in the late 1980s was one of europe's greatest achievements. since its entry into force on 14 june 1985, systematic checks at the internal borders of the countries participating in the schengen area have been abolished, thus ensuring the free movement of persons within the area. in 25 years, the contractual and legal framework in which the european schengen area has developed has resulted in what we now proudly call the schengen accord. i think we can improve some aspects of schengen, such as strengthening the rules that facilitate, simplify and develop free movement within the european schengen area, as well as supporting a strict framework for controls and security at the external borders of the territory of the member states.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and i support his position that in view of the recent developments, both in legal and practical terms, in the schengen acquis, the commission should amend the current schengen borders code. it is vital to maintain the notion that the removal of internal border controls between member states must be accompanied by effective controls, deeper cooperation and mutual trust at the external borders of the schengen area. in particular, in this period, there have been urgent developments at the eu's external borders (e.g. radical political changes in north africa) which have profoundly affected migration flows towards the eu.
in writing. − the scope of this commission proposal is primarily technical and concerns the updating of the rules to take account of developments since the adoption of regulation (ec) no 562/2006 establishing a community code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (schengen borders code). the main aim is to make the schengen borders code a clearer and more comprehensive mechanism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i agree with the proposals put forward and consider that the strengthening of the external borders will create legal certainty and strengthen solidarity between member states, so i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the code.
in writing. − after four years of the schengen borders code, this report presents a set of technical amendments to address shortcomings and problems that have arisen in the course of its application. this report, which is purely technical, strengthens and simplifies the rules for internal free movement and provides greater legal clarity on controls and security at the external borders of the union. bilateral agreements between member states and third countries on common crossing points are given a clear legal framework. in parallel, there is clarity in the definitions of residence permits and the method of calculating the stay of no more than 3 months for a period of six months. i am in favour of this report because i believe that simplification will strengthen solidarity between member states and facilitate economic development.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to amend the 2006 regulation in the light of legal developments and practical experience, and also in view of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the amendments mainly concern clarification of the definition of the conditions of entry for third-country nationals, the duration of validity of certain travel documents. the amendments also extend the exemption from stamping of travel documents for train and bus crews on international routes, as is already the case for airline crews. this includes measures to train border guards to detect situations of unaccompanied minors and victims of trafficking. we are not following the changes aimed at increasingly harmonizing immigration and border policies, which oblige member states to report on the bilateral agreements they establish under the schengen borders code. nor is there any obligation on member states to inform when legal third-country nationals enter another member state.
in writing. − i approve this report taking into account that the republic of croatia should join the union before the european parliament elections, which will be held in spring 2014, and that a durable system for the distribution of seats in the european parliament should be established which should be considered together with the revision of the voting system in the council, as part of a comprehensive reform of the union institutions to be defined in a convention, and that this reform should recognise that, in accordance with the treaties, the basis of the union's democracy is the representation of citizens and member states. i therefore believe that the allocation of seats for the next parliamentary term should not be arbitrary but should be based on objective criteria which should be applied in a pragmatic manner and that such allocation should compensate for gains in the number of seats with losses in such a way that the losses are limited to a maximum of one seat per member state.
in writing. - the question of the composition of the european parliament has been discussed in this house before and i believe that the agreement reached and now confirmed does not unduly prejudice the member states and maintains unchanged the principle of degressive proportionality which ensures greater weighting for the smaller states. i would naturally like portugal not to lose any members, but in view of the possible scenarios, i believe that this is what best safeguards the interests of my country. i hope that the next composition of the european parliament will be the result of more participatory elections and that european issues will be effectively discussed and that the members who will be joining it will continue the effort made in this and previous legislatures to bring the elected closer to the voters.
in writing. - this report reinforces the unacceptable possibility that portugal will lose another mep from 2014. however, the portuguese government must still agree to this scenario at the european council, where the final decision will be taken. the most elementary sense of defence of the national interest calls for the exercise of the right of veto by the portuguese government. if it does not, portugal will have only 21 members (up from 22 and 25 respectively). it is regrettable that the psd, ps and cds members of parliament have accepted not only this further reduction but also the possibility of further reductions in the future as follows from this recommendation now approved. we reiterate here that even within the framework of the lisbon treaty - which we reject as illegitimate - but even within this framework, which others regard as sacred, it was and is possible to accommodate the entry of croatia without a further reduction in the number of members from the medium and small countries. these decisions, which only serve the interests of the large countries, inseparable from a federalist vision, are all the more serious because they are taken in the context of the accelerated loss of democratic rights and the severe limitations on national sovereignty.
in writing. - after several discussions, an agreement was reached on the new composition of the european parliament. i think it is fairly balanced and takes account of the medium and smaller member states. i agree with it and i think that portugal's interests have been duly safeguarded. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision, which found a solution, outlined by the parliament's committee on constitutional affairs, to minimise the loss of seats by country, while also respecting, as far as possible, the principle of degressive proportionality, according to which a member of the european parliament from a more populous country represents more citizens than a member of the european parliament from a less populous country. in fact, i agree with the rapporteurs when they say that this plan is designed to avoid a traumatic redistribution of seats, with serious losses for the medium and smaller member states and huge increases for the larger ones, and it is also the one with the greatest potential to obtain a favourable majority in parliament and unanimity in the european council.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today the draft european council decision establishing the composition of the european parliament. this decision takes account of the accession of croatia to the european union and the terms resulting from the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament will therefore have no more than 750 members in addition to the president, and representation will be degressively proportional, with a minimum limit of six members per member state and no member state being allocated more than 96 seats. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the lack of effective social governance has allowed inequalities and social exclusion to increase, which means that the burden of austerity in difficult times is placed more heavily on the less well-off and on the quality of public services. however, economic and social progress are interdependent. europe's global competitiveness depends on its ability to strengthen its social model. a strong social pillar ensures the synthesis between fiscal and economic aspects and the social dimension.
in writing. − in view of the current socioeconomic situation, which is particularly difficult in the peripheral member states, i welcome the recent commission communication entitled 'social investment for growth and cohesion, including through the european social fund, for the period 2014-2020. the european union currently has 10.5% of unemployed, 22.8% of young people, 27% of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion and a 15% drop-out rate. these are values which i consider absolutely untenable today and which call into question our rule of law. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the european union acts swiftly and establishes the proper link between national social policies, the european semester reform process and the relevant eu cohesion funds.
in writing. the resolution welcomes the commission's proposal on the social investment package and presents it as the future solution to the crisis. this package, it is said, will promote economic growth and job creation. while social investment can play a central role in strengthening social cohesion, social inclusion and the fight against poverty and social exclusion, it will certainly not do so in the way now proposed by the european commission (which this resolution welcomes and supports). the resolution welcomes the fact that the social investment package promotes public-private partnerships and project obligations. it also encourages the mobility of workers and defends the principles of flexicurity. this package is inseparable from the european semester, the euro plus pact and the so-called economic governance, instruments which synthesise a path of strongly conditioning public investment, of the destruction and privatisation of public services, of the attack on social rights and of the increase in exploitation, with the reduction of unit labour costs and the weight of wages in national income. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − in several member states, fiscal consolidation measures have led to the promotion of short-term expenditure objectives at the expense of investment in sustainable growth, employment, social cohesion and competitiveness. on the other hand, the sovereign debt crisis that has hit europe, in particular the euro area countries, has led to a sharp economic slowdown with negative social consequences in most member states through increased unemployment, poverty levels and social exclusion. the crisis has highlighted the economic interdependence of member states and the significant differences in the ability of individual member states to respond to labour market and social challenges. so we all have to make an extra effort to make social investment for growth and cohesion a reality. i believe that this investment will make a decisive contribution to the solution of this crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the commission communication entitled 'social investment for growth and cohesion, including through the european social fund, 2014-2020. i agree with most of the statements made, particularly where it is stressed that social investment should be seen as an investment by the member states that can provide a long-term return even in a counter-cyclical situation. i also agree with the request to the commission to examine what part of public social expenditure can be considered as productive investment.
in writing. − sustainable growth, employment, social cohesion and competitiveness have been severely hampered by the fiscal consolidation measures implemented in the wake of the public debt crisis, which required short-term spending cuts. the effects of economic stagnation are challenging social protection and social security systems, since without growth there is no employment and without employment there is a deepening of poverty, which, together with budget cuts in public services and budgets and social assistance, leads to conditions of severe material deprivation. it is essential that citizens can find decent employment and an opportunity to live in dignity. this report thus looks at the eu funds, whose chain of command can and should contribute to strengthening the union's social dimension through growth-enhancing social investment, towards sustainable and inclusive reform. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − at a time of high economic and social difficulties, job creation must be placed at the centre of the european institutions and the member states' attention. it should be noted that 27% of children are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 8% of eu citizens live in conditions of severe material deprivation and cannot access the necessities considered essential to live a dignified life in europe, and 15% of children leave school without completing secondary education. i am voting in favour of this resolution which calls for job creation and contributes to specific solutions to combat the unemployment which exists throughout the european union, especially among young people, which has now reached six million.
in writing. the commission's proposal on the social investment package is hailed as the future solution to the crisis. the advocates of this say it will promote economic growth and job creation. the truth is that social investment plays a central role in strengthening social cohesion, social inclusion and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. but not in the way the commission proposes. the resolution welcomes the fact that the social investment package promotes public-private partnerships and project obligations, encourages worker mobility and defends the principles of flexicurity. this package is linked to the european semester and is based on european economic governance, structural policies which have precisely conditioned public investment, destroyed public services, jobs and social rights.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that regional aid can only be effective if it is used in a moderate and proportionate way and concentrated in the most disadvantaged regions of the eu, where it is needed most. i therefore believe that state aid policy and cohesion policy are largely complementary and mutually reinforcing. in this respect, i urge the commission to ensure that the modernisation of state aid is consistent with the proposed amendments to the general regulation on the structural funds and to avoid that regions belonging to the same category and facing similar economic difficulties are treated differently. i would also stress the structural contribution of aid to regional development, especially in the current context of a serious economic crisis, and i would therefore ask the commission to recognise that the criterion for defining a crisis, which specifies a serious disturbance in the economy of a member state, continued to apply in the real economy as well as in the financial sector.
in writing. − the existence of less developed regions in the european union and the fact that some regions face specific problems arising from their ultraperiphery make it advisable for regional incentives to play a relevant role in the support provided by the european union. economic growth in the union requires that the specific circumstances of the regions for which support is intended be taken into account and that the regions be able to take account of their reality. complementarity between cohesion policy and state aid is crucial in order to get the best out of both.
in writing. - this report deals with an old question - a question of the matrix of the process of european capitalist integration. the eu largely restricts and prevents state intervention in the economy. it affects the way in which each member state, taking account of its specific situation and the needs of its regions, plans and allocates so-called state aid. it thus calls into question a democratic intervention of the state in the economy. it is therefore calling democracy itself into question by excluding this possibility of intervention. and it does so to open the door to market dictatorship. but these limitations never call into question the channelling of generous public resources to large private groups, some multinationals, which shortly after receiving large amounts of public funding move to other countries, robbing more public support and leaving a trail of destruction and unemployment wherever they go. we also regret that the obligation for these companies to remain in the country where they receive aid has not been extended for at least ten years, instead of the current five. the rules referred to in the report are particularly damaging to the most disadvantaged regions, limiting their development. we voted against it.
in writing. − the commission is pursuing the process of modernising state aid, the objectives of which are to promote growth and focus on the most important cases, and to simplify, streamline and accelerate the application of the relevant rules. i agree that the draft regional aid guidelines (rag) for 2014-2020 are an integral part of the modernisation programme of the eu's state aid policy (sap) and with the adoption of simpler, more predictable and effective state aid control and enforcement rules, based on sound economic analysis. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european commission launched the debate on the legislative package on cohesion policy in june 2011. the objective is to contribute to a more competitive european union and to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular through investment in the context of cohesion policy, while helping the least developed regions to develop on an equal footing with the most developed regions. i voted in favour of this report which presents solutions which are beneficial for the outermost regions.
in writing. - i consider that state aid to the most disadvantaged regions with special and permanent characteristics, such as the outermost regions, is an essential instrument for promoting their development. in fact, a specific derogating regime from the prohibition on state aid to the outermost regions is enshrined in the treaty. it also respects the achievement of the objective of territorial cohesion by taking into account regional specificities and by being adapted to those specificities. but such a system must be simple and flexible, or else it will become ineffective and lose some of the positive effects that have been produced over the years in these regions. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that we are now in the fifth year of the financial, economic and social crisis. competition has proved to be a necessary tool in responding to crises. it has stopped protectionist and market-fragmenting trends, provided a framework of guidelines that has contributed to financial stability and restructuring, and fostered fairer competition in more transparent financial markets. during these years, competition policy was the only tool for resolving the banking crisis at european level and the experience gained by the commission should be useful in the progress towards a banking union. at the same time, it has helped member states to maximise the effectiveness of public intervention. competition is always important and essential in difficult times. in my view, the greatest ally for economic reconstruction is competition policy. antitrust, state aid and merger control all have a direct impact on the drivers of productivity and competitiveness. strong competition is necessary to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − this european parliament report reflects on the competition policies implemented by the european commission in 2011 with the aim of promoting the competitiveness of the european economy and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the importance of antitrust, state aid and merger policies is emphasised in order to foster a healthy competition policy which is beneficial for european citizens. the need to promote actions to facilitate the protection of businesses and consumers harmed by the failures of european regulation, to make competition policy more legitimate through greater involvement of the european parliament, to ensure that state aid functions as temporary measures and does not drag on over time, to supervise the activity of large business conglomerates and public services and to ensure the proper functioning of the european food sector is emphasised. competition policy must be preserved as it is one of the fundamental instruments for ensuring the dynamic and transparent functioning of markets, prevents fragmentation and protectionism and is vital in the fight against the economic crisis. i support this report because it contributes to the preservation of an open, fair and active european market, and ensures a higher quality of services for citizens.
in writing. − this european parliament report reflects on the competition policies implemented by the european commission in 2011 with the aim of promoting the competitiveness of the european economy and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report draws attention to the importance of antitrust, state aid and merger policies in fostering a healthy competition policy that benefits european citizens. the need to promote actions to facilitate the protection of businesses and consumers harmed by the failures of european regulation, to make competition policy more legitimate through greater involvement of the european parliament, to ensure that state aid functions as temporary measures and does not drag on over time, to supervise the activity of large business conglomerates and public services and to ensure the proper functioning of the european food sector is emphasised. competition policy must be preserved, as it is one of the fundamental instruments for ensuring the dynamic and transparent functioning of markets, prevents fragmentation and protectionism and is vital in the fight against the economic crisis. i support this report because it contributes to the preservation of an open, fair and active european market, and ensures a higher quality of services for citizens.
in writing. - more competition means more choice for european citizens and a more competitive environment for businesses. as such, eu competition and consumer policies should not be decoupled. the commission's actions to ensure an effective competitive environment within the internal market are therefore key to achieving those objectives and are, in a time of crisis, an essential tool for the economic recovery and growth we want. policies and actions in the field of the fight against cartels and abuse of dominant positions by undertakings, state aid and merger control all have a direct impact on the drivers of productivity and competitiveness and are therefore essential.
in writing. − in 2011, the commission implemented a set of measures to boost the competitiveness of the european economy and to achieve the europe 2020 strategy's goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the text prepared by mr antolín sánchez presedo analyses the annual report on competition policy and draws attention to the importance of antitrust, state aid and merger control policies in fostering a healthy competition policy that benefits european citizens. we all agree that in times of crisis, competition policy is essential for the entry of new players into the economic market and for boosting investment and innovation. to give credibility to competition policy, member states (ms) must be alert to infringements that undermine consumer confidence and penalise those who do not comply. i voted in favour of this report because it introduces a new regulatory framework which benefits small and mediumsized enterprises (smes), preserves the functioning of an open, fair and active single market, while at the same time enshrining a common approach to compensate victims of unfair competition.
in writing. - as usual, this report is a repeated eulogy to the neoliberalism reigning in the european union. it considers competition policy to be part of the eu's genetic code. and that's exactly what it is. it lauds open markets, the free movement of capital and goods. finally, the usual rhetoric of those who neither wanted nor wanted to learn anything from the crisis in which the eu is plunged. it is noted that the commission used competition policy as a crisis management tool and adopted special state aid measures. it is argued that competition policy is key to responding to the crisis and supporting the 2020 strategy and the single market, as well as to progress towards a banking union, a genuine economic and monetary union and deeper integration and convergence. we cannot avoid pearls such as the one that protectionism would deepen the crisis. as if that were not enough, more liberalization is called for. the member states with the weakest economies and their peoples are now feeling the effects of these paths: the effects of competition in the single market, the destruction of the weakest productive systems, the colonization of national economies by large foreign economic groups. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − competition policy is part of the eu's dna. the treaty of rome created the three instruments of competition policy (antitrust, state aid and merger control) which aim to preserve equality and an open and dynamic market. free competition helps companies to seek success through their merits based on prices, quality and innovation satisfying the needs, preferences and desires of intermediaries and final consumers. i consider the commission's report on competition policy 2011 to be very important and welcome the fact that the new thematic structure addresses the issues highlighted by parliament and allows for a clear identification of priorities, objectives and actions undertaken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the annual report on competition policy by mr sánchez presedo, which gives a good account of the situation and problems of competition policy in the european union. since the beginning of european economic integration with the treaty of rome in 1957, the economic order of the union has been based on an orderly market economy, including the active defence of competition against restrictive practices and abuses of dominant positions by undertakings and against state aid liable to distort competition. in this connection, the report suggests that the state aid regime should be made more flexible, given the economic crisis in the union. in addition, since the 1986-92 internal market programme, the union has been actively promoting the opening up of former public utilities (electricity, telecommunications, transport, etc.) to competition, without prejudice to the guarantee of public service obligations. in this respect, the report takes note of the backlog of the single market in energy and rail transport and the need for consistency in the regulation of services of general interest (sgeis) as required by the eu treaties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which contributes to the preservation of an open, fair and active european market and guarantees a higher quality of services to citizens. this report draws attention to the importance of antitrust, state aid and merger policies in promoting a healthy competition policy that is beneficial to european citizens. it stresses the need to promote actions to facilitate the protection of businesses and consumers harmed by the failures of european regulation, to make competition policy more legitimate through greater involvement of the european parliament and to ensure that state aid functions as temporary measures and does not drag on over time, by supervising the activity of large business conglomerates and public services and ensuring the smooth functioning of the european food sector. we must preserve the union's competition policy, which is one of the key instruments for ensuring the dynamic and transparent functioning of markets, preventing fragmentation and excessive protectionism, and is an important instrument in the fight against the economic crisis.
in writing. − this european parliament report aims to assess the competition policies implemented by the european commission in 2011 with the aim of promoting the competitiveness of the european economy and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the report draws attention to the importance of antitrust, state aid and merger policies in fostering a healthy competition policy that benefits european citizens. the need to promote actions to: facilitate the protection of businesses and consumers harmed by the failures of european regulation; make competition policy more legitimate through greater involvement of the european parliament; ensure that state aid functions as temporary measures and does not drag on over time; supervise the activity of large business conglomerates and public services and ensure the proper functioning of the european food sector. competition policy is one of the key instruments for ensuring the dynamic and transparent functioning of markets, it prevents fragmentation and protectionism and is vital in the fight against the economic crisis. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − every year, the european commission publishes its report on competition policy, which sets out legislative activities and provides detailed information on state aid rules, dominant positions and mergers. in this annual report from the commission, parliament, among other things, recalls the importance of competition policy and compliance with the rules to ensure the eu's economic effectiveness and stresses that the implementation of competition policy must facilitate the entry of new players and the emergence of new ideas and techniques, to the benefit of the eu and its citizens. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this report considers that competition policy is part of the eu's genetic code, based on the principles of open markets, the free movement of goods and services, people and capital, and has been essential for european growth. well, nothing wrong with that. it is precisely competition policy that has led to the economic decline of the weakest economic partnerships. we are totally against the internal energy market, the single transport market, the creation of the single european sky, the liberalization of the postal service, all of which are supported in this report.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution, starting by asking the commission to submit a proposal to adopt a convergence code under the european semester, based on the eu 2020 strategy and establishing a strong social pillar, as i insist that national implementation programmes should ensure that the convergence code is implemented by all member states, supported by an incentive-based mechanism. the future architecture of emu should recognise that parliament is the seat of responsibility at union level, taking into account that whenever new competences are created or transferred to the union, or new union institutions are created, it is important to ensure the corresponding legitimacy, democratic control by parliament and accountability to it. finally, i reiterate the calls for the european stability mechanism (esm) to be integrated into the community acquis so that it can be managed in accordance with the community method and be accountable to parliament, and i therefore ask the commission to submit a proposal to this effect.
in writing. - the times we live in are times of crisis and uncertainty which require firm and effective responses. we must move forward and deepen economic and monetary union, otherwise we will prolong beyond all reason a crisis which threatens not only the peripheral economies but the very heart of the euro. i am in favour of a more active role and a more muscular intervention by the european commission and a more active involvement by parliament so that it will be possible to complete emu in the near future, by providing it with mechanisms which not only strengthen ex ante control of imbalances and potential problems, but which are also based on greater solidarity between states sharing the same project, thus restoring confidence. i believe that we must move towards an effective banking union, towards the creation of an effective system of incentives for compliant states (in parallel with sanctions) and that we can make a path towards joint debt issuance with the necessary guarantees.
in writing. the motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled following statements by the council and the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure, by the epp, s&d, alde and greens/efa political groups, concerns the preparations for the european council meeting to be held on 27 and 28 june, more specifically on the democratic decision-making process within economic and monetary union (emu). i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the council has an obligation to be more ambitious in its anti-crisis measures in order to accelerate the recovery with a view to economic growth and job creation. the council cannot continue to postpone without delay fundamental decisions on the strengthening of european democracy in the future emu. the european parliament, the seat of responsibility at european union level, is the legitimate representative of all eu citizens and must be an active part in the decision-making process involving legislative amendments or initiatives. the community method must therefore be the basis for any initiative aimed at stability, sustainable growth, solidarity and democracy at eu level.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. that is, the deepening of the paths that brought us to disaster. the differences between the main political families represented here - the right and social democracy, in their various expressions - if there are any at all, are of pace and institutional procedure. it is clear from this that these two families are fundamentally in agreement (as they have always been with regard to emu) in maintaining a disaster course for the peoples of the eu countries. this strengthening of emu will be the source of new and more serious expressions of the crisis, of more unemployment and poverty. it is by invoking the stability of the euro and emu and their future that the domestic and foreign troika are imposing the aggression pact, with very serious consequences for the present and the future of the people and the country. strengthening emu and the euro means increasing the authoritarian drift against national sovereignty in the eu, denying social, democratic and national rights. the strengthening of the european parliament's powers will not legitimize emu. the strengthening of the union has been and is associated with the removal of the citizens' decision-making centres and the subordination of the institutions of national sovereignty. we voted against it.
in writing. − the commission's efforts to continue the progress made in the area of the union's macroeconomic governance, on the basis of the 6-pack and 2-pack, are well known. full implementation of the new framework should take priority over any new proposal. i think that the creation of an enforcement mechanism based on incentives and aimed at increasing solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness should be accompanied by additional levels of economic policy coordination, as indicated in the commission statement accompanying the 2-pack. i am concerned, however, about the delay in the council's decision-making on this matter. the eu must be able to face its problems without worrying about the electoral calendars of the member states, or else it will not be able to give the response to the crisis that all eu citizens expect.
in writing. the european parliament resolution adopted this week on the democratic decisionmaking process in the future economic and monetary union (emu) is of crucial importance in defending the community method and the role of parliament in emu, in the context of the interpretation and application of the treaties and their future revision. it cannot continue to be accepted that this key dimension of european integration continues to be governed by intergovernmentalism and that the european council continues to go beyond the powers conferred on it by the eu treaty. the eu's representative democracy is based on two pillars: the representation of the member states, represented in the european council and the council (of ministers), and the representation of european citizens, represented in the european parliament. the emu cannot continue to be divorced from the decisionmaking powers of the only elected institution of the union - the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the strengthening of european democracy in the future economic and monetary union, the key position of which is that a strengthened economic and monetary union should not divide the european union but, on the contrary, create greater integration and establish stronger governance, which should be optional for all member states outside the euro area.
in writing. − following two questions to the european commission and the council on the reasons for the delays and the prospects for the adoption of certain pieces of legislation relating to the european financial services sector, this resolution was drawn up, the main aim of which is to emphasise the need for rapid progress in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. it also called for progress to be made on the proposals for a single deposit guarantee scheme and a single bank resolution mechanism and authority, so that the banking union could be completed as quickly as possible and the confidence and credibility of the european banking system could be restored effectively and quickly. it also called on the council to be more transparent in the negotiations of the abovementioned legislative packages, to make decisions more rapid and to conclude all possible procedures before the end of the current parliamentary term. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro. the differences - if any at all - are of pace and institutional procedure. this shows that the right and the social democrats are fundamentally in agreement - as they have always been with regard to emu - in maintaining a disaster course for the peoples of the eu countries. the strengthening of emu will give rise to new and more serious forms of crisis, to more unemployment and poverty. it is by invoking the stability of the euro and emu and their future that the domestic and foreign troikas are imposing the aggression pact, with very serious consequences for the present and the future of the people and the country. strengthening emu and the euro means increasing the authoritarian drift against national sovereignty in the eu, denying social, democratic and national rights. the strengthening of the ep's powers will not legitimize emu. the strengthening of these institutions has been and is associated with the removal of the decision-making centres from the popular strata and the subordination of the institutions of national sovereignty.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by insisting that the solution to the pressing problem of youth unemployment lies in improving the overall economic situation, in particular by strengthening the single market for services and the digital economy, intensifying trade through free trade agreements and promoting the interests of smes and micro-enterprises, while defending fundamental social rights. in this respect, i would stress that sustainable economic growth is the most effective tool to combat long-term unemployment, as i believe that measures specifically targeted at young people are important, but it remains essential to ensure that the eu has a strong, competitive and modern economy. i welcome the short and medium-term investments such as the youth employment initiative, but draw attention to the lack of long-term structural measures and the absence of the reforms needed to enable education systems in certain member states to meet the challenges of the future and ensure employability.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the most terrible aspects of the crisis we are experiencing, with some 5 million young people unemployed and with no prospect of finding a job in the short term. the youth guarantee initiative is therefore to be welcomed, particularly in its support and encouragement of job creation for young people through specific programmes, as well as all the more or less ambitious actions intended to support job creation and entrepreneurship. it should be noted that without economic growth and healthy enterprises, there will be no jobs. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. if europe is to successfully meet the ambitious objectives of the eu 2020 strategy with a strong focus on innovation, research and training, it will have to invest in better qualifying its young people by opting for education models that are more geared to future integration into the labour market.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on concerns the preparations for the european council meeting to be held on 27 and 28 june, and more specifically european action to combat youth unemployment. the recession in almost all member states as a consequence of the economic and financial crisis has caused a contraction in the economy which has forced them to cut wages, pensions, social benefits, etc. as a result, the member states' gross domestic product has fallen, unemployment has risen alarmingly and poverty and social exclusion have soared, especially in countries subject to financial stabilisation mechanisms. the main victims of unemployment are young people, many of whom are looking for their first job, who are either desperate or forced to emigrate. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because the member states and the eu can do much more than is being done to combat youth unemployment. policies must be implemented which do not hinder job creation, especially youth employment, by increasing the funds to support this sector. we need to send a strong signal that we are tackling this serious problem which in some member states affects more than 50% of the young population.
in writing. - this resolution, with a view to the next european council, aims to set out guidelines for combating youth unemployment. the resolution does not address the real reasons for the increase in youth unemployment. it also blames member states for unemployment, budget cuts in education and a lack of social investment, and (let alone!) young people for lack of ambition and poor career choices. the link between youth unemployment and neoliberal policies, the austerity measures imposed on the member states, which have led and are leading to the daily destruction of jobs, bankruptcies, the destruction of businesses and public services, in addition to the well-known cuts in wages, pensions, pensions, the national health service, education, social support, unemployment benefits, public and private investment, is omitted. the solutions advocated by the european parliament are the same as always: strengthening the single market in services and the digital economy, intensifying trade through free trade agreements, strengthening mobility and reforming education systems to meet the needs of the labour market. the solution is a complete break with the current macroeconomic policies and an immediate end to austerity policies, particularly in the countries under the auspices of the troika.
in writing. - youth unemployment is a scourge that already reaches a rate of around 23.5%, representing more than 5 million unemployed young people in the eu, but is even more serious in countries such as portugal, spain and greece. all initiatives to combat this situation are therefore welcome. it is important that the european council has recognised the importance of youth employment for europe's prosperity. we must find solutions to combat youth unemployment in the wider context of initiatives to promote social rights and redress social imbalances in the european union. i think the youth guarantee is a good measure because it supports and encourages job creation for young people through specific programmes, for which we think there should be an appropriate budgetary framework within the community framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which has broad support from the political groups in the european parliament and which calls on the member states to improve cooperation between businesses and the education sector at all levels, with a view also to improving the way curricula are linked to labour market requirements, for example by extending sectoral skills alliances and knowledge alliances. i would stress the call on the commission to assess the impact of anti-crisis measures on youth employment and invite the member states and the commission to consider the possibility of abolishing those which have a negative impact on youth employment.
in writing. − in april 2013, 23.5% of young people in the eu were unemployed, with rates ranging from 7.5% in germany to 62.5% in greece. the report also calls on the commission to assess the impact of austerity on youth employment and invites the member states and the commission to consider the possibility of abolishing measures which have a negative impact on youth employment. parliament also welcomed the council recommendation on the establishment of a youth guarantee, which will ensure that all eu citizens and legal residents under 25 who are unemployed, as well as young people under 20 who have recently graduated, receive an offer of employment, continuing education or an apprenticeship opportunity within four months of losing their job or leaving formal education. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which states that the funds for combating youth unemployment will be available before 2014.
in writing. − according to the latest statistics available from eurostat, in march 2013 the youth unemployment rate (i.e. workers under the age of 25) in the european union was 23.5%, corresponding to 5.7 million young people without a job, and 24% in the euro area, corresponding to 3.6 million unemployed. this social scourge has been increasing over the last few months, as a year-on-year comparison (to march 2012) shows that the youth unemployment figures have been rising considerably, with more than 170 000 young people now without a job. new measures to combat youth unemployment are urgently needed and the european institutions must involve the political youth organisations and youth associations that face this problem on a daily basis.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning with my reiteration of my efforts to revise regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, which should, in a global way, enable eu citizens to have greater and better access to eu documents. the commission is thus called upon to commit fully, at political and technical level, to amending and adapting regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 to the provisions of the lisbon treaty, or to take appropriate measures to overcome the impasse. at the same time, the council was instructed to resume its discussions on regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 as soon as possible, to adopt its position at first reading and to continue negotiations. i end by reiterating its position at first reading, adopted on 15 december 2011, as the starting point for negotiations, and insist that an amended text, as a minimum condition and in conformity with the requirements of the treaty, should: explicitly extend the scope of application to all institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, strengthen legislative transparency, including access to legal opinions on legislative matters.
in writing. - there are commonplace things that seem right but are just that. the idea that there can never be too much transparency sounds good, but in practice it is not true. simplicity often results in simplicity which is detrimental to all. in addition to transparency, there are other values which deserve protection and which must be taken into account. there are duties of confidentiality and data protection that are not compatible with unjustified absolutisms that are better suited to more basic decision-making levels and methods than those employed in the european union. more than commonplaces, common sense is required.
in writing. - transparency is the essence of democracy and must be at its service. the eu, as an example of how democracy works, felt the need to show its citizens that it had nothing to hide and that is why 12 years ago it adopted its first transparency regulation. access to information and documents of public bodies is a fundamental right of citizens and should be treated as such. however, a certain degree of confidentiality is necessary in certain matters, both for personal and copyright reasons and to prevent misuse by those who may have privileged access to certain information. on 20 april 2008, the commission presented a proposal for a recast of regulation no 1049/2001 of the european parliament and of the council of 30 may 2011 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. an improved proposal was subsequently submitted, although complementary to the first, which was to be adopted by this parliament in december 2011. the council has not yet adopted the regulation, a year and a half later, and this is putting the credibility of the european institutions in doubt. because the violation of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which enshrines the right to information, is at issue, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 governs public access to documents of the eu institutions the european parliament, the council and the commission. the lack of transparency is evident in the council working groups and trilogues, the publication of legal opinions on legislative processes, the work of eu agencies, international negotiations and the commission's dialogue with member states. however, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has increased the european union's obligations in the field of transparency and has enshrined access to documents as a fundamental right, and therefore that regulation needs to be reviewed. it is not therefore understood that the revision of this regulation is at an impasse under the responsibility of the commission and the council. the resolution considers that the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 should be a priority for all eu institutions. we support the need to deepen transparency at all levels in the european union. but we regret that several exceptions to public access to documents remain.
in writing. - i believe that transparency is an essential tool to enable citizens to participate in the decision-making process of the european union, and to ensure that the european institutions are accountable to citizens and thus strengthen their commitment and confidence. in this sense, the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has reinforced the european union's obligations in the field of transparency and enshrined access to documents as a fundamental right. i therefore think it is important that an agreed platform be found to give all eu citizens access to documents.
in writing. − transparency is an essential tool to enable citizens to participate in the decision-making process of the european union, and to ensure that the european institutions are accountable to citizens and thus strengthen their commitment and confidence. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the full application of the regulation on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 is seen by eu citizens as a key piece of legislation that provides the tools for the proper monitoring of eu actions. however, the various cases handled by the ombudsman show that the application of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 still needs improvement. the commission has proposed a recast of the regulation to improve the criteria for the accountability of the european institutions to their citizens and thus increase their involvement and trust. but the negotiations are deadlocked. considering that failure to agree on a new version of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 would send the wrong signal to eu citizens and considering further that a failure to negotiate could undermine the legitimacy of the decision-making process, i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the council to immediately resume discussions on regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 and to adopt its position at first reading and proceed immediately with the negotiations.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has emphasised the european union's obligations in the field of transparency and enshrined access to documents as a fundamental right of all citizens. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amends regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. however, the cypriot and irish presidencies were unable to unblock the issue in the council and start new negotiations because of the resistance of the commission. i therefore support this report, which aims to raise awareness among the european institutions of the need to resolve this political impasse.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 governs public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. there is a lack of transparency in council working groups and trilogues, in the publication of legal opinions on legislative procedures, in eu agencies, in international negotiations and in the commission's dialogue with member states. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has also reinforced the european union's obligations in the field of transparency and has enshrined access to documents as a fundamental right, which requires a revision of the regulation. it is not understood, therefore, that the review is at an impasse under the responsibility of the commission and the council. the resolution considers that the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 should be a priority for all eu institutions. we support the need to increase transparency at all levels of the european union, but we regret that a number of exceptions to public access to documents remain.
mr president, the protests in istanbul and other cities in turkey show that many in that country have lost patience with prime minister erdogan's authoritarian and repressive style, sadly evidenced in his reaction to peaceful protesters against the destruction of gezi park. as president gül has rightly said, democracy is more than elections. democracies do not attack protesters, do not bulldoze citizen protests or arrest journalists, and turkey is, shamefully, as has been said here today, the world's largest jailer of journalists. it was not by chance that what ignited the protests and spread them to other cities was the indignation of citizens at national radio and television stations silencing what the international media projected from taksim square to the world. the european union, which is not only a strategic partner of turkey but also has a strategic intention to accept it as a member, must unequivocally condemn the violence and the inflammatory statements and police reprisals by the prime minister and members of his government. the call for restraint between the two sides is inappropriate, both from the european union and as a message to be conveyed to a country which is a candidate for european union membership. i therefore wish to express my full support for the statements made by commissioner füle in turkey in support of democracy and human rights and for his initiative to visit taksim square. the european union cannot now simply encourage dialogue. it is essential to demand that the turkish authorities learn from these clashes and stop forcing the religious subordination of the different lifestyles in turkish society, stop persecuting journalists and activists for freedom and human rights. the turkish government has the opportunity to correct its hand. it must focus on giving institutional, legal and political space to a democratic society, respectful of transparency, accountability, and religious and political pluralism. this also requires, as has already been said here, an organized democratic opposition which responds to the aspirations of the progressive segments of turkish society. we can help by opening the crucial chapters 23 and 24 to negotiation and by making the vibrant voice of turkish society, which has put taksim square and gezi park on the world map, heard in these negotiations.
on behalf of the s&d group. building an institution from the ground up is never an easy task and for that the high representative, mrs ashton, and ambassador vimont deserve all the credit and our heartfelt thanks. two years after the founding of the european external action service, we are taking the first steps towards a coherent and effective european foreign policy. we need vision and ambition for the service to effectively serve a common policy that reflects european values and defends and promotes the strategic interests of the european union in the world, and we need not be reluctant to identify and assert them. this requires the high representative to assume political coordination between all union policies and instruments with an impact on external action, including security, development, humanitarian aid, trade, energy, etc. the institutional guarantee is the result of his dual role as high representative and vice-president of the commission, with the financial means and services of the commission and the european external action service. the different commissioners have to accept your leadership, mrs ashton, and you have to lead and dare and put pressure on the commissioners but also on the european governments. their investment in the common security and defence policy is needed not only to ensure operational missions but above all to prevent member states from losing indispensable capabilities and forces in times of serious economic and financial crisis. they need to first optimise and rationalise resources to better serve the european delivery in fulfilling our obligations as global security providers. finally, the guiding principle of all our external action must be based on the silver lining, as you say, which is human rights and the promotion of peace and democracy. we have a special representative for human rights now, who we need to support effectively, give him visibility and the tools and political backing that the position requires. we also need human rights dialogues with third countries, in particular strategic partners such as the united states of america, china, russia, india and brazil, to be transparent, substantive in terms of objectives and results.
mr president, marietje schaake’s report is truly important, and it is in this context that i would like to raise the situation in ethiopia, where there are hundreds of journalists in jail, among thousands of political prisoners. president barroso was recently in ethiopia. what did he do? did he press for their release? why do we not know anything about that? why do we not hear the eu saying anything about the horrific crimes committed by the ethiopian military and paramilitary forces against the civilian population in the ogaden region, about which i have sent a report to you, commissioner piebalgs? are you aware that in angola – where we have a joint forward agreement that is supposed to bring to the table civil society, i.e. the people who are defending human rights and fighting against corruption – journalist rafael marques de morais has had criminal charges brought against him by the government for publishing the book blood diamonds: corruption and torture in angola about horrific crimes against the people in the lunda provinces, the diamond-rich area? why is the eu silent? this question is very relevant in the context of our debate today and i want to hear the reply.
i thank mr millán mon for this useful report. i too believe that the relationship with the united states is the most important and strategic relationship the eu has with third countries, and should be more central in the face of the multipolar world in which we live. this relationship is based on shared interests and values, but it also depends on mutual trust -- trust that has been shaken again by the recent revelations about the nsa's prism program. we cannot push the matter under the carpet, as our governments have done with torture flights and secret prisons. i have read the letter that commissioner reding has just sent, and it is indeed essential that we find out to what extent the data of european citizens, obtained under the swift and pnr agreements or without any legal framework, are being used. this must have consequences for relations in the various fields. even if that means admitting to our own citizens that in the age of the internet and cyber espionage, there is no data protection possible. and therefore, all efforts must be directed to defend the citizens, who are individually affected by the perversions of this misuse. it is also in the name of fundamental values of individual, collective and global security that we europeans must speak out clearly against the use of drones in the fight against terrorism as part of the targeted killing programme that president obama inherited from the bush administration but has unfortunately not abandoned. this use of force is more dangerous than security, and this is stated by the un special rapporteur on the fight against terrorism himself. it's a technology that can easily proliferate, can easily be acquired by the very terrorist groups that the united states wants to annihilate. the principles that we share, that we're talking about, this use of drones, outside the context of an armed conflict, is a violation of international law. that is why, as much as we want agreements like ttip, if we don't restore trust, it is very difficult for the european union and the united states to make a difference in cooperating for global peace and security.
on behalf of the s&d group. the democratization of mali depends on an end to the violence and the implementation of the transition roadmap agreed by the malian authorities and the dialogue and reconciliation commission. but i also wonder whether a hasty electoral process without security conditions might not have a negative impact on the transition. stabilising the country implies a tremendous effort of ethnic, social and political reconciliation, including with the tuareg nation, which involves all the forces of malian society. the decisive role that women can and must play in this process requires the support of the european union to ensure their participation, to help give them visibility and to make a difference. in addition, we must wipe out the criminal networks, including terrorist networks, which destabilise not only mali but the whole sahel region. to ensure that mali remains on the path to democratization, it is crucial that the authorities, with the support of the international community and in particular the european union, commit themselves to the economic development of the country. without the satisfaction of basic needs, the absence of which today ties this country to very weak human development indicators, mali will not reach the threshold of human security indispensable to economic modernization and political consolidation. the european union must invest in a holistic strategic approach that balances the plurality of challenges, including the eradication of poverty, underdevelopment, bad governance, organised crime, terrorism, not only in mali, but throughout the sahel and neighbouring libya. we can't go to mali without committing to the whole region.
madam president, the process of facilitating the reuse of information in the public sector must first of all aim at making information available to the general public, based on the principles of transparency, democratic access to information and the public interest. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we are also concerned that in this context public-private partnerships are in some way restricting general access to information and that the interest of the private partners in managing information is overridden by the general interest in access to information. finally, it would be good if the preference for formats favoured free software over proprietary licensed software, which generally dominates the options of public administrations. it would not only guarantee the transparency of this process but would also certainly reduce the costs of the whole process.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. 0.7% of gross national income is a drop in the bucket, if you think about the investments that are made in armaments, in occupation wars that destroy countries or in injections of financing into the banking system. in fact, these investments contribute entirely to increasing poverty. we need only look at what has been left of the rubble of european union military interventions in countries such as libya, afghanistan and iraq. to say nothing of the signing of free trade agreements, to which the european union is as committed as it is to colombia, peru or the mercosur countries, which have completely devastating effects on the economies of the countries it seems so anxious to help here. we need to look at examples of countries that have made progress in meeting the millennium development goals. examples of countries, for example, such as venezuela or cuba. by 2005, cuba had already achieved the goals of education, gender equality, infant mortality, and was very close to achieving other millennium goals. why would you do that? because the country's social model, as opposed to our ideological model in the european union, invests heavily in a network of free social goods and services. and it's not me saying it, it's the united nations. if the european union is so committed to contributing to the millennium development goals, a suggestion: eliminate all its military and security aspects and transfer these resources to contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals. that sounds like a great idea.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that it should be recommended that the interim agreement be approved, as this would send a significant signal as to the importance of trade relations with the central african region as a whole. the interim economic partnership agreement should act as a powerful catalyst for deeper integration in central africa, bringing long-term benefits. the vision of a continental free trade area will only bear fruit if regional groupings in africa move towards greater integration, thereby bringing benefits both to the european union and to the countries of central africa.
in writing. - for the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries as a whole, privileged access to the european market has not translated into sustainable growth and sufficient integration. moreover, the unilateral trade preferences granted by the eu were incompatible with the principle of non-discrimination of the world trade organisation (wto). in 2007, it became clear that the negotiations initiated in 2002 by the eu and acp countries on the new economic partnership agreements (epas) would be difficult to conclude by the end of that year. in this respect, a temporary solution was found in the form of interim economic partnership agreements, which ensured compliance with wto rules while negotiations on comprehensive economic partnership agreements continued. the interim epa constitutes an important step towards further regional integration through the conclusion of a regional agreement covering the whole of the central african region, bringing long-term benefits. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − the interim agreement is a step towards greater regional integration through the conclusion of a full regional agreement covering the whole of the central african region. the economic partnership agreement will create a new climate more favourable to economic relations in the fields of economic governance, trade and investment and will open up new prospects for growth and development. improving infrastructure and fostering the business climate are key to contributing to the generation of sustainable economic growth regional integration of the central african states shall aim at promoting their integration into the world economy, taking into account their development priorities.
in writing. - the privileged access to the european market has not translated into sustainable growth and sufficient integration of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries as a whole into the world economy. furthermore, the unilateral trade preferences granted by the eu were incompatible with the principle of non-discrimination of the world trade organisation (wto). as a temporary solution, economic partnership agreements (epas) have emerged, ensuring compliance with wto rules, coupled with an initial request for privileged access to the eu market, while negotiations on global and comprehensive economic partnership agreements continue. in this regard, the approval of the eu-central africa interim epa will send a significant signal regarding the importance of trade relations with the central african region as a whole. the interim epa can and should function as a powerful means of deeper integration in central africa, bringing long-term benefits to both regions.
in writing. - david martin presents us with a text recommending the adoption of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the interim agreement for an economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and central africa, of the other part. the agreement is a stepping stone economic partnership, compatible with the world trade organisation (wto), which aims at the regional development of the central african states. this agreement should be an opportunity for the european union (eu) to demand the repeal of all discriminatory legislation against human rights, including freedom of sexual orientation, still in force in this african region. we know this deal isn't perfect. it is a long way to go towards democracy. we cannot abandon these countries to their fate, however, but must encourage them to reform their democratic way of life. although it is not the desirable agreement, because there is still a lot to be done in terms of respect for the rule of law in the vast majority of these countries, i voted in favour because it is a step in the development process of this region which is so deprived and with structural gaps that have transited from the colonial era.
in writing. − faced with the difficulty in the eu of reaching a comprehensive agreement with the acp countries, a temporary solution was then found in the form of interim, framework and stepping-stone economic partnership agreements, which ensured compliance with wto rules and which were accompanied by an initial request for privileged access to the eu market, while negotiations for comprehensive and global economic partnership agreements continued. this is the context in which this partnership agreement with central africa, an interim partnership agreement, is to function as a powerful catalyst for deeper integration in central africa, with long-term benefits. the vision of a continental free trade area will only bear fruit if regional groupings in africa move forward in the face of greater integration. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report recommending that the interim agreement for an economic partnership agreement be approved between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the central african party, of the other part, as it sends a significant signal as to the importance of trade relations with the central african region as a whole. the interim economic partnership agreement should act as a powerful catalyst for deeper integration in central africa, bringing long-term benefits to both parties.
in writing. − in 2007, it became clear that the negotiations initiated in 2002 by the eu and acp countries on the new comprehensive economic partnership agreements (cepas) were unlikely to be concluded by the end of that year, when the wto derogation from the eu-acp cotonou trade regime, which had been extended until 31 december 2007, would expire. a temporary solution has been found in the form of interim, framework and phase-out economic partnership agreements. the interim economic partnership agreement in question should act as a powerful catalyst for deeper integration in central africa. the vision of a continental free trade area will only bear fruit if regional groupings in africa move forward in the face of greater integration. i am in favour of the adoption of the interim agreement, as this would send a significant signal as to the importance of trade relations with the central african region as a whole.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by expressing serious reservations about parts of the agreement which do not reflect the position of the european parliament and the values of the european union. however, i believe that the agreement should be approved in order to give the commission and the eeas room for manoeuvre in the two years preceding the third review. i also stress the need for the unsatisfactory clauses to be revised in this respect in the context of the third revision of the agreement, including article 8 (4), and in accordance with our treaties and values. i also recommend that in future international negotiations, the eu should adopt a more development-friendly and human rights-based approach, taking into account the human development of the citizens of the countries involved.
in writing. − this revision of the cotonou agreement introduces key issues for sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy. issues such as climate change, energy security, capacity building and education are essential for the development of these countries. global warming may also present an opportunity. the renewable energy costs available to these countries are indispensable for their economic and social development and allow them to move towards energy independence in order to cope with the global crisis. investment in education and training is also key to fighting poverty, unemployment, emigration and brain drain, and contributing to the economic construction of these countries. i call for this instrument to enhance its usefulness as a diplomatic tool to promote good governance, democracy, transparency and human rights.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i do not think this is the ideal text for a development agreement. however, it fulfils the objective of giving the european commission and the european external action service more time to negotiate the third revision of the cotonou agreement. i am sure that in the next negotiations the ec will be able to adopt an approach more in line with the positions that the eu and the ep in particular defend on development and based on human rights, taking into account the human development of the citizens of the countries involved.
in writing. - the report in question, drawn up by michael cashman, is a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement amending for the second time the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (acp countries) of the one part, and the european community and its member states (ec) of the other part, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000, and amended for the first time in luxembourg on 25 june 2005. the cotonou agreement, which expires in 2020, represents a unique model of international cooperation and has contributed to the development and peace of many developing countries. this review has many positive aspects such as security, regional development, the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), the fight against climate change, etc. however, we believe that it should have gone further and included commitments in other areas such as respect for human rights, the promotion of fair trade and the fight against corruption. i voted in favour of this recommendation but, like many other members, i am concerned that the safeguard clauses for respect for human rights, especially non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, are not included.
in writing. − the acp-ec partnership agreement (known as the cotonou agreement), signed in cotonou, benin, on 23 june 2000, replaced the lomé framework for development cooperation. it was concluded for a period of 20 years, from 1 march 2000 to 28 february 2020. while preserving the lomé convention acquis, the cotonou agreement introduced some radical changes to acp-eu cooperation. there is, however, still much to improve on this agreement. i hope that this second amendment will help to make that happen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the second amendment to the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the community and its member states. i would stress, however, that the agreement reached falls short of the union's expectations and that there are parts of the agreement which do not reflect the position of the european parliament and the values of the union, and i therefore support the call in this resolution to all parties to review the unsatisfactory clauses during the third review of the agreement.
in writing. - acp-eu (africa, caribbean, pacific - european union) relations began in the 1970s, following the independence of most acp countries. the acp-ec partnership agreement (known as the cotonou agreement), signed in cotonou, benin, on 23 june 2000, replaced the lomé framework for development cooperation. it was concluded for a period of 20 years, from 1 march 2000 to 28 february 2020. while preserving the lomé convention acquis, the cotonou agreement introduced some radical changes to acp-eu cooperation. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to make the second amendment to the cotonou agreement, the main objectives of which are to preserve the relevance and exemplary character of the partnership between the acp countries and the eu countries, to adapt the agreement to the major changes recently experienced in acp-eu relations and in international relations and to develop a number of key issues for both sides, such as the political/institutional dimension, economic cooperation/regional integration/trade, financial cooperation for development/programming and aid management.
mr president, this parliament has taken a very clear position on the defence of press freedom in the world and also on the crucial role that governments have to play in safeguarding public services and preventing media empires from being built up, as they have been in many parts of the world. but what i want to say here is that the fight for freedom of the press and the defence of the public service cannot be confined to european borders. we cannot simply give lessons to the world when we are watching what is happening inside the european union, with the troika's intervention blocking public television and media services in greece, in a dramatic situation such as we are living in today. but in portugal too, the restriction of press freedom is being imposed at a time when public services are being closed and coverage is being prevented from being extended. and so we vote in favour of freedom of the press in the world, public services in the world. we must also defend them at home and condemn this unbelievable censorship that is being carried out in greece.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by stressing that the issues of media development and guaranteeing freedom of expression should be an important part of the eu's dialogue at national level, stressing that clear parameters and conditions should be respected in trade, partnership, cooperation and association agreements between the eu and third countries, as well as in aid programmes, in accordance with article 21 teu. i therefore urge the eeas and the commission to respect and implement the european parliament's reports and recommendations on the negotiations of such an agreement, recalling that coherence, consistency, coordination and transparency between parliament, the eeas and the commission in the implementation and monitoring of these fundamental human rights are essential for the credibility and effectiveness of the eu in its relations and interactions with third countries.
in writing. − freedom of expression and media pluralism are fundamental european values. unfortunately, the profession is suffering from the current economic crisis and the challenges it faces globally. it is essential to ensure greater transparency and freedom of information and to combat impunity for attacks on freedom of expression and the media.
in writing. - without a free media, freedom of expression and the right to information would be severely restricted. fortunately, the european union, where citizens and media companies enjoy a high degree of freedom, does not simply look at what happens within its borders but seeks to intervene positively so that these rights are increasingly spread and protected. it is right to acknowledge such a leadership effort as well as that much remains to be done in this regard. there are still many journalists and media outlets that suffer from various forms of repression. it is up to us to remember their names and their causes, to advocate for the improvement of their conditions and their liberation and to fight so that the freedom we enjoy can be fully enjoyed by all. i hope that the union will maintain the high internal standards to which it has accustomed us and will not stop improving them wherever possible and will continue to do everything possible to ensure that freedom of expression and the right to information are values in which the international community as a whole recognises itself.
in writing. - freedom of the press and media in the world is the subject of the report by mrs schaake. despite the fact that we live in an increasingly globalised world and there is a growing awareness of people's rights, we still see, even in countries considered democratic, serious violations of the right to inform and to be informed. we all recognize that freedom of the press is fundamental in the world but it is being impeded in many ways. around the world, journalists are being arrested for reporting the truth and cyber attacks are being carried out from third countries for publishing news that upsets powerful and dictatorial states. being a journalist is still a danger in many countries around the world such as pakistan, eritrea, china, north korea, russia, and most of the developing countries. i voted in favour because we must continue to defend freedom of expression and the right to pluralism. the european union must continue to speak out against the lack of democracy and respect for minorities, against the persecution of christians and ethnic groups, against all forms of exploitation and violation of human rights.
in writing. − the right to freedom of expression is a universal human right, which is at the heart of democracy and is essential for the exercise of other rights that citizens around the world seek to achieve, including the development, dignity and fulfilment of every human being. as governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting freedom of the press and media, they must also be the primary responsible for the obstacles to freedom of the press and media and, in the worst cases, increasingly resort to legal pressure to restrict that freedom. it must be possible to combat this situation, because only with a press can we have a true democracy. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on freedom of the press and media in the world, which aims to underline that freedom of expression is a universal human right, which is at the heart of democracy and which is essential for the exercise of other rights that citizens all over the world seek to obtain. it is also stressed that governments are primarily responsible for ensuring and protecting freedom of the press and media and may also be primarily responsible for the barriers placed in their way. i support the call in this report for a debate in the union on policies to guarantee freedom of expression.
in writing. − this report deals with issues such as the principles and role of the media press, recent developments in the media, european policies and external actions, and the strategy to be followed. parliament thus recognises that governments have the primary responsibility for ensuring and protecting freedom of the press and the media. it also called on the european external action service to take advantage of the eu's presence in multilateral fora in this area and advocated the adoption of a strategy on freedom of the press and media in the context of the eu's external relations. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - from a formal point of view and in the light of the analysis of the situation, we could agree with almost all the contents of this resolution, particularly with regard to the large concentration of the media and their exploitation for economic, political and ideological purposes. the problem is that all these statements of principle, very beautiful, very correct, very defensible, are based on the alleged evil of governments and some politicians and the goodness of the owners of the media. the idea is that the real problems are not related to media ownership but rather to their misuse. nothing is said - and much should be said - about the conditions of enormous precariousness of journalists, the process of destruction of their labour and social rights, when it is known that this is a fundamental condition for their freedom and the exercise of their activity. and finally, interference, much interference to promote the interests of big capital in the eu, using the cover of defending freedom, democracy and the values of the eu which in countries like portugal promotes the values of unemployment, precariousness, poverty and hunger.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by stressing that the obligation to make all generally available documents reusable and to allow the re-use of documents whose access is not restricted by any access regime in force in the member states, under the principle of subsidiarity and the guarantee of the protection of privacy and personal data at union level and in strict compliance with and compliance with eu data protection legislation, including with regard to the transnational re-use of data, should be safeguarded. in addition, in my view, it should be emphasized that national regulations on access to public sector documents are based on transparency and freedom of information. however, in some cases, this right is limited, for example, to those who have a special interest in those documents or to situations where the documents contain sensitive information relating, for example, to national security or public security.
in writing. − after several years of work and thanks to the efforts of rapporteur ivailo kalfin, we have just adopted the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending directive 2003/98/ec on the re-use of public sector information (rist). the public sector is the largest database in existence and its knowledge can influence the markets themselves and have a major effect on transparency. the european union (eu) was therefore obliged to regulate this matter in order to avoid abuses in its handling, in particular the existence of monopolies that condition the accessibility of them. without the necessary protection of personal data, we will all have to benefit from this transparency and openness, the only way to move forward into the future and create more jobs. knowledge is the basis of the new information society. i voted in favour because public data will be more accessible to businesses and citizens under the following conditions: information generally accessible but with respect for the rules and principles of its use. i welcome the promotion of europe's cultural heritage through the opening up of data relating to museums, archives and libraries. all citizens in general and researchers in particular will have a huge data set at their fingertips.
in writing. − directive 2003/98/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the re-use of public sector information (pib directive) was adopted on 17 november 2003. the directive aimed to facilitate the re-use of public sector information across the union by harmonising the basic conditions for re-use and removing the main obstacles to re-use in the internal market. the directive includes provisions on non-discrimination, pricing, exclusive agreements, transparency, licensing and practical means to facilitate the discovery and re-use of public documents. the benefits of better access and easier reuse include: innovation in products directly based on isps and complementary products, lower costs of operations and greater efficiency in the public sector, and increasingly, the combination of different public and private information for the creation of new products.
in writing. the proposal for a directive calls for a paradigm shift towards a policy of open access to public data in the digital age. the basic principle is that the general public has a right to access data which, in the public service, is collected with funds from tax revenues. the directive includes provisions on non-discrimination, pricing, exclusive agreements, transparency, licences and practical means to facilitate the discovery and re-use of public documents, and has received further amendments from the european parliament to make it a balanced instrument and not to introduce a bureaucratic burden on public institutions. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission has presented a proposal for a directive amending directive 2003/98/ec on the reuse of public sector information. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the reuse of public sector information should be facilitated throughout the union by harmonising the basic conditions for reuse and by removing the main obstacles to reuse in the internal market. i would also stress that the directive includes provisions on non-discrimination, pricing, exclusive agreements, transparency, licences and practical means to facilitate the discovery and re-use of public documents.
in writing. − some of the issues raised in the report and in the directive are of concern to us, such as the protection of personal data and respect for individual freedoms and guarantees, which are often poorly considered and even inadequate. the amendments now tabled to the 2003 directive on this subject strengthen the role of public-private partnerships in this process as the commercial component of the provision of the information in question, a point with which we have many reservations, once again if public resources in the form of information, data and documentation are used to make profits and satisfy private purposes. we are also concerned that private interests may restrict access to information, that the interests of private partners in the management of information may override the general interest. we cannot accept that the market and its competition laws should decide neither the prices nor the information and documents to be made available, nor that the commission should be given, as the directive states, a competence which should belong to the member states, taking into account their reality and the characteristics of their public sector. it would be good if the free software formats used were given priority in the provision of information.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, beginning by asking the commission to adopt as soon as possible, in particular, its proposals on a draft regulation establishing a single resolution mechanism and on the follow-up to the recommendations of the liikanen high level group of experts on structural banking reform, stressing the importance for the co-legislators to deal swiftly with these forthcoming proposals in co-decision, so as to allow the rapid entry into force of the relevant measures. as for the council, i urge it to reopen negotiations on the gsp as a matter of crucial importance and direct interest to the citizens of the european union and to their confidence in the financial sector and its stability, noting that the need for a rapid adoption of this proposal has recently been confirmed by the cyprus crisis. i believe that a single european deposit guarantee fund, with operational deposit guarantee schemes with adequate financial resources which will therefore increase investor credibility and confidence, could be the ultimate goal when an effective resolution framework and an effective single supervisory mechanism are also in place.
in writing. − following two questions to the european commission and the european council on the reasons for the delays and the prospects for the adoption of certain pieces of legislation relating to the european financial services sector, this resolution was drafted with the main objective of recommending that legislation in this area be taken forward. parliament called for the closure of the negotiations on the solvency ii/omnibus ii directive, mifid legislation, bank resolution and recovery directive, single supervisory scheme, standard deposit guarantee schemes and other ongoing procedures in this area. it is also urgent to make rapid progress on the proposals for the single deposit guarantee scheme and the single resolution mechanism and authority so that the banking union can be completed as quickly as possible and the confidence and credibility of the european banking system can be restored effectively and swiftly. the council is asked to be more transparent in the negotiations and progress of the above-mentioned legislative packages, to make decisions more rapid and to conclude all possible procedures before the end of the current parliamentary term. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − following two questions to the european commission and the council on the reasons for the delays and the prospects for the adoption of certain pieces of legislation relating to the european financial services sector, this resolution was drawn up with the main objective of emphasising the need to move rapidly towards the implementation of legislation in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. it is also urgent that proposals for a single deposit guarantee scheme and a single bank resolution mechanism and authority be advanced rapidly so that the banking union can be completed as quickly as possible and the confidence and credibility of the european banking system can be restored effectively and swiftly. it also called on the council to be more transparent in the negotiations and progress of the abovementioned legislative packages, to make decisions more rapid and to conclude all possible procedures before the end of the current parliamentary term. i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i fully support this motion for a resolution and would like to reiterate the decisive importance that a genuine banking union will have for financial markets and for businesses in the european union. it is essential to regain investor confidence in the european market. it is therefore important that the european commission brings forward legislative proposals to complete the 3 pillars of the banking union by the end of this parliamentary term and that the council gives its opinion on issues such as the amif or the directive on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled under rule 115 (5), follows two oral questions by mrs sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the lack of progress in the council and the delay by the commission in adopting certain proposals relating to financial services. parliament called on the commission to conclude the regulatory proposals for the solvency ii/omnibus ii directive, mifid legislation, bank resolution and recovery directive, single supervisory scheme, standard deposit guarantee schemes and other ongoing procedures, as well as the swift submission of proposals on the single deposit guarantee scheme and the single resolution mechanism. it is imperative to complete the banking union in order to restore the credibility of the european banking system. we all know that the financial sector is at the epicenter of the crisis. we have embarked on a long process of reform but people want concrete results. i voted in favour of this proposal because it is aimed at restoring the confidence of european citizens by setting priorities and responding to new needs in order to achieve sustainable growth that reverses rising unemployment.
in writing. − we all agree that the recovery of the european economy requires a stable financial sector that provides competitive financing to the real economy. for this to become a reality, the banking union must be achieved, as agreed and reaffirmed by the different eu institutions with responsibilities in this essential sector of our economy. we must therefore begin to close the pending files on this sector quickly, otherwise we will not be effective in combating the crisis.
in writing. − following two questions to the european commission and the council on the reasons for the delays and the prospects for the adoption of certain pieces of legislation relating to the european financial services sector, this resolution was drawn up with the main objective of emphasising the need to move rapidly towards the implementation of legislation in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. it is also urgent that proposals for a single deposit guarantee scheme and a single bank resolution mechanism and authority be advanced rapidly so that the banking union can be completed as quickly as possible and the confidence and credibility of the european banking system can be restored effectively and swiftly. it also called on the council to be more transparent in the negotiations and progress of the abovementioned legislative packages, to make decisions more rapid and to conclude all possible procedures before the end of the current parliamentary term. i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the european commission and the european parliament have been developing and adopting a number of resolutions aimed at resolving the economic and financial crisis in europe. however, the proposals take a long time to be discussed and approved by the various member states in the council, leading to further difficulty in subsequent implementation. i urge the council to adopt the measures suggested by the european commission and the european parliament as soon as possible, because the adoption of some of the proposals in question would more effectively solve the problems facing europe. in this connection, i am voting in favour of this report which calls on the council to conclude negotiations with parliament on some key economic governance issues.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. on the contrary, i did. the longer it takes to complete the project, the less negative consequences there will be. in particular, this is the so-called banking union, an instrument for deepening federalism and neoliberalism in the financial sector, which promotes the merger, acquisition or closure of smaller banks, i.e. their concentration and centralisation at eu level and the increase in the profit rate, particularly in the banks of the great powers. this is the withdrawal of control, supervision and decision-making by each country to accept or not to accept the creation of new institutions - a process which makes the only possible solution to the problems facing the banking sector difficult: its nationalisation. these are all proposals that keep the speculative mechanisms of the financial sector, in particular the so-called financial derivatives and toxic financial products, untouched. these are the mechanisms which make it possible to keep the dependence on the financing of states by private banks and the speculation on their sovereign debts untouched.
mr president, we support the resolution voted today in the european parliament on the current situation in turkey. in fact, for the past two weeks we have seen a widespread uprising, demonstrations by millions of citizens that started in istanbul, in gezi park, and that has spread throughout turkey. all the revolts have come together here, the revolt for the right to urban space, for freedom of expression and freedom of the press, for wages, but also for women's rights. we would like to know how many dead and wounded there have been in this repression and in this arrogant and violent response by the erdogan government. we are in solidarity with all those who have demonstrated in these days and who are continuing to resist the police offensives. and we'd also like to know, with respect to the doctors who are being arrested for helping the wounded and the lawyers who have come forward, what is going on.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by expressing my concern at the current confrontation between the political parties and the lack of willingness of the government and the opposition to work towards a consensus on fundamental reforms, and thus urging all political actors, the government and the opposition to work together to strengthen political pluralism in public institutions and to promote the modernisation and democratisation of the state and society. i stress the crucial role of a system of powers and counter-powers in the governance of a modern democratic state, which must be reflected in the ongoing constitutional process and which must be rooted in the principle of separation of powers and the balance between executive, legislative and judicial functions, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms - in particular freedom of expression and of the press - and a participatory political culture that faithfully reflects the pluralism of a democratic society.
in writing. - the current situation in turkey is of concern to those who consider that turkey is a privileged strategic partner of the european union and that both have to gain from closer and deeper relations. despite the views that point to a tension between the government and a section of the population, i believe it is too early to fully assess the reasons that sparked the conflicts, without deploring the excessive use of violence by the police. the european union should make an effort to find out who the opponents of the government who have come forward are and what they really want. i hope that the tension will ease and that the parties will be able to establish channels of dialogue. the turks will gain nothing by violence and rancor. turkey is an example of moderation. for my part, i hope it remains so.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on concerns the social and political situation in turkey. turkey has been facing a widespread uprising for two weeks now, which began in the city of istanbul over the destruction of a leisure park to build a shopping center. however, the demonstrations have spread throughout the country and have become social goals: better wages, respect for women's rights and freedom of expression, among others. the government reacted arrogantly and violently by sending in military forces who tried to disperse peaceful protesters with water cannons, tear gas and rubber bullets, killing at least three people and injuring dozens. i voted in favour of this motion condemning the turkish government because i disagree with the excessive use of force to repress peaceful demonstrators and i condemn the retaliatory attitudes towards doctors, nurses and lawyers who have provided assistance to the victims. turkey is a candidate country for eu membership we recognise the courage shown in resolving the kurdish question but it cannot continue to deprive its citizens of the most basic civil rights.
in writing. the european union is also considering the possibility of a new round of negotiations with turkey. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties, and the repeal of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of military courts are some illustrative examples of this. the recent events in that country have aggravated my concerns in this matter. turkey must solve its problems without the use of violence. what has happened in turkey is regrettable on every level and must be condemned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, in which i stress the call for continued efforts to improve and strengthen political and social institutions in turkey.
in writing. − recently turkish police used excessive violence to disperse a group of protesters who had been protesting for weeks against the cutting of trees to make way for a new construction project in istanbul's gezi park in the taksim square area. i would stress that there is some concern about the deterioration of press freedom, certain acts of censorship and the increasing self-censorship in the media in turkey, including on the internet. i condemn all forms of violence against the population who were protesting calmly and peacefully and that there should be greater freedom of information, and i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - as is usual, the majority of the ep treats differently all those who are more in line with the interests of economic groups and the great powers and those who take a sovereign stance or whose interests are in contradiction with those it defends. the european parliament has also called for the immediate release of the three hostages, and for the immediate release of the three hostages. popular demonstrations which started with the rejection of measures by the akp (justice and development party) government led by erdogan, quickly turned into a broad expression of repugnance for the brutal police repression, the arrogance and authoritarianism of this government and its policy, demanding his resignation. there is little or no mention of the turkish government and its policy of increasingly restricting freedoms and rights, a policy which corresponds to the interests of the big economic and financial groups and imperialism in the middle east, as exemplified by its active support for and provision of the use of turkish territory as a base for external aggression against syria. we call for an immediate end to the repression and we express our solidarity with the struggle of the turkish people.
in writing. − i welcome this report by beginning by reiterating my call on the high representative/vice-president and the eeas to put policy coherence for development (pcd) at the top of their priorities, urging the commission and the eeas to define a clear strategy to ensure policy coherence for development, including by giving the pcd a greater prominence in the eu's political dialogue with governments, parliaments, civil society organisations and other stakeholders in third countries, including the pcd credibly and operationally in strategic programming documents, participating in the forthcoming development of the evolutionary work programme on pcd and developing a training programme on pcd for all new eeas staff. in addition, i cannot fail to point out the potential tension between the dpc and the concept of a comprehensive approach to crisis management outside the eu, calling on the eeas and the commission to ensure a comprehensive approach that does not subvert the specific objectives and principles of development cooperation or divert scarce resources from poverty reduction.
in writing. − the eeas plays a major role in the planning and programming of bilateral development cooperation with partner countries and regions. it is important to ensure better coordination and good governance between the commission and the eeas on international development issues in order to allow the eu to speak with one voice and gain visibility.
in writing. − the european external action service is still in its early years of operation, so it is premature to make any too definitive judgments about its organisation and functioning. it must, however, strive to improve it and seek to contribute to its success. the participation of the member states and the union institutions is necessary if this effort to give credibility and unity to the european union's external action, which culminated in the creation of the eeas, is to continue to produce satisfactory results. the reinforcement of the political advice of the high representative as well as the additional involvement of the foreign ministers of the member states in the operation of european external action should take into account the necessary balance between states and seek to avoid the temptations of directorship. the eeas has a crucial role to play in the future of the european union's relations with the world. it should therefore have included in its statute a language regime which favours the european languages best suited to establish direct contacts with the rest of the world.
in writing. − the purpose of the european external action service (eeas), in accordance with article 27 (3) of the treaty on european union (teu), is to support the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i support this report by my colleagues elmar brok and roberto gualtieri on a recommendation to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the european commission, the council and the commission on the 2013 review of the organisation and functioning of the eeas, as i believe that the eeas needs to be made more effective by simplifying the command structure so that decision-making and the role of the executive secretary-general are more effective. in addition, better coordination with the european parliament is essential in view of the multiple functions assigned to it. the eeas can and should, at a time of financial constraint when member states are reducing their diplomatic representation, be seen as an opportunity to pool synergies and promote better international strategic cooperation.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon introduced the objective of ensuring the unity, coherence and effectiveness of the european union's external action. the operational decision-making and implementation in the field of the common foreign and security policy/common security and defence policy (cfsp/csdp) is too slow for structural and procedural reasons. the crisis in mali is an example of this ineffectiveness, in response to which decision-making processes and financing decisions were not adopted or implemented quickly. i therefore think it is appropriate to review the organisation and functioning of the eeas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation on the 2013 review of the organisation and functioning of the european external action service improve and strengthen the coordination, initiative and political leadership roles of the high representative.
in writing. − according to the council decision of 26 july 2010 establishing the eeas, the high representative is to reform the organisation and functioning of the eeas by mid-2013. in this context, the european parliament makes its recommendations, which are mainly to advocate a more ambitious eeas, involving more efforts in terms of synergy and coordination between the institutions and the member states, so that the eeas can react more quickly and more proactively and, consequently, make the eu's voice heard in the world. for these reasons i voted in favour of parliament's recommendations.
in writing. − the proposal to review the organisation and functioning of the eeas in 2013 would reinforce its instrumental role in promoting external interference and violations of international law and the un charter. the eeas, one of the central elements of the lisbon treaty and a cornerstone of federalism, is a diplomatic mega-structure that subordinates the representations and interests of the member states. as defined in this report, the review of the organisation and functioning of the eeas would only increase its recognised links with military and intelligence structures, promoting the militarisation of international relations and further threatening peace in europe and the world. our proposal for 2013 is, contrary to the proposal put forward by the majority of the ep, to abolish it as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that freedom of religion or belief is, among all human rights, a basic and essential right which must be respected. discrimination on the basis of religion or belief persists in all areas of the world, and in numerous countries the human rights of persons belonging to certain religious communities, including religious minorities, continue to be denied. i am therefore in favour of the purpose and scope of the eu guidelines which should always be: to promote and defend freedom of religion or belief, to integrate freedom of religion or belief into eu human rights policies and actions, to develop unambiguous benchmarks, norms and standards in order to strengthen the promotion of freedom of religion or belief in the work of public officials and officials of the european union. as a final note, i would stress that the eu's external financial instruments should be used either as incentives or as deterrents (freezing of funds) with regard to freedom of religion or belief in a given country.
in writing. - freedom of religion or belief is, among all human rights, a basic and essential right which must be respected. as such, the draft guidelines should mainstream freedom of religion or belief into eu human rights policies and actions. to this end, it should develop unambiguous benchmarks, standards and standards and increase the clarity of the definitions used.
in writing. - freedom of religion or belief is a fundamental value, structuring the kind of society in which we want to live. the right to believe and not to believe must be counterbalanced by mutual respect. regardless of belief in the transcendent or non-transcendent root of the values that allow us to live in community and the idea of the person and his dignity, no one can be forced to believe or to abjure his faith. states should not persecute the religious expressions of peoples or unreasonably suppress practices and customs that are part of their traditions and cultures. to do so is to deny the very heritage of european civilization. externally, the european union must promote and defend religious freedom in third countries and place this issue at the top of its concerns regarding fundamental rights. i would like to draw particular attention to situations of persecution of christians all over the world and i regret that some phenomena of christianophobia are also occurring in the union.
in writing. - the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, based on article xviii of the universal declaration of human rights, states in article 10 (1) that: 'everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion.' this right implies the freedom to change one's religion or belief and the freedom to manifest one's religion or belief, individually or collectively, in public or in private, through worship, teaching, practice and the performance of rites. despite the enshrinement of these rights, the truth is that we are witnessing serious violations of this right on the planet, especially in the arab countries, but also in europe. egypt, iraq, burma, kazakhstan (where 2 young men were accused of blasphemy and sentenced to death for burning the koran), pakistan, etc. are countries where these violations often occur. we need early warning mechanisms that bring this kind of attack on human freedom to the attention of international authorities. i voted in favour of the report on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief because it is unacceptable for anyone to be persecuted because of his religion and i urge the eu to promote a code of religious freedom throughout the world.
in writing. − the eu is founded on the principle of respect for human rights and has a legal obligation, laid down in its treaties, to ensure that all eu and member state policies, without exception, as well as all international agreements, focus on human rights. dialogues between the eu, its member states and third countries must be preceded by concrete measures designed to ensure that human rights remain at the heart of eu policies. despite the crisis we are going through, we cannot forget that the defence of human rights is part of the eu's dna. in this regard, the promotion of the right to freedom of religion or belief, including theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, the right not to have a belief and the right to change one's religion or belief, constitute universal human rights and fundamental freedoms of every human being.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the draft eu guidelines on the promotion and defence of freedom of religion or belief, the objectives of which are: to promote and defend freedom of religion or belief; to integrate freedom of religion or belief into eu human rights policies and actions; to develop clear benchmarks, standards and standards in order to strengthen the promotion of freedom of religion or belief in the work of public officials and other servants of the european union.
in writing. − the european parliament has on several occasions advocated the need for guidelines on the promotion and defence of freedom of religion or belief as part of the eu's external policy. the foreign affairs council will adopt these guidelines on 24 june, and parliament will make a number of recommendations, particularly in the area of the collective dimension of freedom of religion or belief, education, family and social law, and the question of asylum. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - on principles with which we agree - freedom of religion or belief, including theistic, non-theistic and atheistic beliefs, the right not to have a belief and the right to change one's religion or belief, in short universal human rights and fundamental freedoms - this report seeks to put the eu, through its external action service, in the position of interfering in the policies and laws of third countries in this matter. this attitude of external interference by the eu is carried forward either by the use of external financial instruments of the eu, seen as incentives or deterrents (such as the freezing of funds), or by actions in multilateral fora that pressure third countries to adopt legislation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, beginning by urging both partners to study areas and frameworks through which broader and more pragmatic transatlantic cooperation can be carried out and to explore with other atlantic countries the usefulness of such extended cooperation, stressing that from the eu's point of view, the areas to be considered include economic and social issues, global governance, the process of democratisation, human rights, development cooperation, climate change, security and energy. i therefore urge the partners to consider using, for the purposes of these triangular dialogues, the regional and subregional structures created in latin america, which the eu has always supported. i also recommend that the partners hold regular exchanges of views on their summits with latin american countries in a regional framework, namely the biannual eu-celac summit and the summit of the americas within the framework of the organization of american states.
in writing. - politicians and academics have repeatedly pointed to a strategic shift of the world's axis from the atlantic to the pacific and the consequent loss of importance of transatlantic relations. i believe that both the united states and the european union have come to understand that, despite the rise of new powers as global actors, there is a clear mutual interest in jointly defending their shared civilization and the values that underlie it. i hope that the creativity and the spirit of commitment of the usa and the eu will allow the development of as many concrete forms of partnership as possible, a partnership which cannot and should not be limited to customs aspects. only the growing union on both sides of the atlantic will allow a strategic counterweight to be established to the new challenges facing them. i believe that this transatlantic partnership should not be confined to the north atlantic but should also be extended to the south atlantic.
in writing. − in an increasingly globalised world, all countries share new challenges and new areas of interest. the report by mr francisco josé millán mon highlights the role the european union (eu) has to play in promoting a wider transatlantic partnership. the atlantic ocean, which for thousands of years was a barrier between continents, is now a unifying element that the eu must not waste. the united states of america (usa) being the eu's main partner, this cooperation should be strengthened and extended to the african and american countries bordering the atlantic. the areas of cooperation that are possible are many: climate change, management of marine resources, promotion of trade and investment, security, food protection, energy resources, the fight against organised crime, support for developing countries and the promotion of respect for human rights, among others. i voted in favour because it is essential to strengthen our awareness that we belong to a transatlantic community which has enormous untapped potential and which can mitigate the relocation of the economic axis from the atlantic to the pacific.
in writing. - in the atlantic basin, the most important political and economic relationship is the link between the eu and the us. the start of a new term of barack obama's presidency should allow for strengthening this link through an ambitious new agenda. this transatlantic partnership has been based on strong political, cultural, economic and historical links and shared values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as common objectives such as prosperity, open and integrated economies, social progress and inclusion, sustainable development and peaceful conflict resolution. it is necessary to continue to extend this partnership, which brings benefits to all.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the eu's role in promoting a wider transatlantic partnership, which calls on both partners to study areas and frameworks through which wider and more pragmatic transatlantic cooperation can be achieved and to explore, with other atlantic countries, the usefulness of such wider cooperation.
in writing. the european parliament's aim in this report is to take stock of the current state of transatlantic relations and to put forward proposals for the way forward for their deepening and widening. the document therefore takes account of the fact that a transatlantic partnership includes not only the relationship with the united states but also with the rest of the americas and the other countries of the atlantic. the document also mentions the strategic role of eu-us relations as a vehicle for deepening relations in other areas of the world, such as the asia-pacific region. i have voted in favour of the document on the basis of the points raised.
in writing. − the promotion of a wider transatlantic partnership, as advocated in this report, would bring new and more aggravated expressions of crisis and an even more aggressive articulation between the eu, the us and nato, with all the dangers that entail for the peoples of the world. firstly, the free trade agreement between the eu and the us, which would lead to the acceleration of the process of competition between large monopolies - inserted into the fierce world competition - the closure of an incalculable number of small and medium-sized enterprises - and also of some large companies - the promotion of merger and acquisition processes in many sectors, causing an even greater increase in unemployment and poverty, the pressure for further reduction of wages, the deregulation of many key sectors that today have regulated and protected production, in particular in the agricultural sector, with consequences for food security. secondly, a further militarization of this partnership, with the deepening of the process of militarization of the eu and a greater effectiveness of its role as the european pillar of nato.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected and that the rights of the palestinian people are respected. at the same time, i call for the swift implementation of the roadmap to support the transition to the restoration of constitutional order and the rule of law in the country through the organisation of democratic, free, fair and transparent elections in 2013. i therefore welcome the commitment of the malian authorities to move swiftly forward with the elections, as well as the statements by leaders of the transitional government expressing their intention not to contest the elections. i cannot but acknowledge the challenges arising from the organisation of the elections, including tasks such as ensuring security in the northern areas of the country, issuing biometric ballots and registering refugees on electoral rolls, and i urge the eu and its international partners to step up their support for the next electoral process. i welcome in this respect the intention to send an eu election observation mission, as requested by the malian government.
in writing. the current republic of mali has been the scene of several empires of enormous cultural and religious wealth and the obligatory passage of trans-saharan trade for centuries. the current crisis has led to a deterioration of the political, security and humanitarian situation. the eu has taken the lead in defining a strategy to address the problems of the sahel region and has a crucial role to play in better integrating the development and security pillars. it is essential that there is a collective effort between the eu and the un. the stabilization of mali is essential for the security of the whole of the sahel, of north africa and also of europe.
in writing. - mali has recently been ravaged by a radical islamist guerilla group devoted to the destruction of the malian state, the introduction of sharia law and the pursuit of european interests in that country. the gravity of the situation justified french intervention in the country. the question now is to contribute to the reconstruction of mali and to give its people the confidence to participate in this process. as it has supported the fight against fanaticism, the european union must now support mali in its longer-term struggle against hunger, poverty and the dismantling of its state, for the sake of the security and quality of life of its people. i would like to see other international actors besides the european union make a firm contribution to this reconstruction, which, if it is to be complete, must not ignore the political component. the democratization of mali in all its aspects must therefore be at the top of our priorities.
in writing. - mali was once a prosperous country. the military coup, the occupation of the north by armed rebel groups and the consequent military conflict brought about a climate of civil war with dire consequences that spread to neighboring countries. mali is one of the poorest countries in the world where corruption, bad governance and organized crime are rampant. human rights are not respected, and women are victims of rape and forced marriage. the european union, in the framework of its programme of support to developing countries, is monitoring, together with the malian transition authorities and other regional and international organisations, the implementation of a roadmap for the transition in mali. despite the efforts of the international community, the humanitarian situation and respect for human rights have deteriorated. 750,000 people are in need of food aid and 660,000 children could suffer from malnutrition. international aid is struggling to implement reforms and meet basic needs. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the reconstruction and democratization of mali because i believe that the eu should step up its intervention in that country by contributing to its development and to the establishment of a regime that respects human rights.
in writing. - the eu cannot remain indifferent to what has happened in mali, as violence and the seizure of power by force are not in the eu's dna. the eu stands for democratic processes and for the respect of the most basic human rights. we must therefore strongly condemn the events in mali and call on all parties to ensure that normalcy is restored in the country as quickly as possible and that the people's representatives in the institutions of mali are democratically re-elected. the french intervention in defence of these principles was important as a first step towards the reconstruction and democratization of mali. however, it may be time to call for a strong eu involvement in this process. the eu must always be at the forefront of the fight to defend democracy and democratic processes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation which presents support and proposals to enable mali to achieve political stability and long-term economic prosperity.
in writing. - i would like to stress that the effects of the military coup in mali, the occupation of the north by armed jihadist rebel groups and the armed conflict that has followed in the north of the country are being felt far beyond mali and the sahel region, with repercussions in other parts of africa and europe, thus affecting the quality of life of millions of people. i am in favour of this report because i support a political process under malian leadership which will enable the country to achieve political stability and economic prosperity in the long term, and the eu should be involved in this democratic process.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, reaffirming my continued support for the building of an afghan state with stronger democratic institutions, capable of guaranteeing national sovereignty, the unity of the state, the territorial integrity and the prosperity of the people of afghanistan, reaffirming that the peaceful future of afghanistan depends on the establishment of a stable, secure and economically sustainable state free from terrorism and drugs and based on the rule of law, the strengthening of democratic institutions, respect for the separation of powers and the safeguarding of fundamental rights. i therefore acknowledge, in this context, the important contributions made through eu development cooperation and the eupol mission in afghanistan, the extension of which is welcomed. i also welcome the efforts and progress made over the last decade; reiterates, however, its concern at the security situation and the ongoing acts of violence in afghanistan and the resulting threats to the local population, including women, children, national security forces and international military and civilian personnel.
in writing. - afghanistan remains a problem for global stability. the european union must remain involved in the efforts to build and stabilise the afghan state and seek to establish a partnership with it to promote its development and the pacification of its territory and its people, who have unfortunately been so plagued by violence, repression and intolerance for so many decades. i hope that afghanistan will be able to free itself from the problems that plague it and that it will be able to integrate normally into the international community. in recognition of the efforts made in this direction, it is imperative to note that much remains to be done: the afghan authorities do not yet control the entire territory of the country, nor are they capable of performing the functions of the state on their own. the partnership and cooperation agreement could give new impetus and stability to this european involvement.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution we have just voted on concerns the negotiations for a cooperation agreement on partnership and development between the eu and afghanistan. afghanistan is a country that can boast of its greatest wealth, that is, people from various ethnic backgrounds who believe that things can improve in the country. however, this multi-ethnic richness sometimes becomes a bone of contention, which makes the situation very complicated. with the withdrawal of the international security assistance force, the afghan military has gained greater capability and is now forced to face insecurity, as recently happened at kabul airport. the date for elections is approaching, which will be a critical moment to test the capacity of the afghan authorities to respond. the international community has a vested interest in the peaceful and transparent conduct of the electoral process and therefore the eu's involvement both as a monitor and in supporting the organisation of the electoral process is essential. i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is essential to conclude this framework agreement which aims to support the reconstruction of afghanistan in the medium and long term. the fact that there are investors who will be working with the government instead of the groups is a good sign.
in writing. − the eu has been committed to supporting the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and remains committed to a peaceful transition in the country, its inclusive and sustainable development and the stability and security of the entire region. the eu and afghanistan are currently finalising negotiations on a cooperation agreement on partnership and development, which takes eu-afghanistan cooperation to a new and comprehensive level and gives it a new legal framework. i believe that this new step in relations with afghanistan is important in order to help that country find its way to development, democracy and common prosperity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation, which stresses the crucial need to coordinate eu assistance, based on a joint approach involving member states and international actors in a common strategy.
in writing. − the eu has supported the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and remains committed to a peaceful transition, its inclusive and sustainable development and the stability and security of the entire region. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the eu should continue its process of fruitful cooperation with afghanistan by strengthening the partnership in key sectors of governance (such as the police), agriculture, rural development, health and social protection.
in writing. - contrary to what is written in this resolution, the continuation of the occupation and war in afghanistan violates the sovereignty of the afghan people, their economic, social and cultural rights, international law and the charter of the united nations. almost twelve years of war and involvement by nato, the us and the eu have not eliminated the so-called insurgency of the so-called terrorists, nor have they brought peace and stability to the country, quite the contrary. the occupation and war created a devastated country, with poverty levels and living conditions of the afghan population worsening compared to the period before the military occupation. for afghanistan, nato, the us and the eu have led extrajudicial killings, drone attacks and violations of the fundamental rights of the afghan people. the key to the start of a genuine development partnership is the immediate withdrawal of foreign troops from afghanistan, full respect for its national sovereignty and independence and support for a peaceful political solution by afghans free from any outside interference.
in writing. − i welcome this report, taking into account the process of preparing the next special event of the united nations general assembly, considering it vital that the eu has a coordinated and coherent position on the post-2015 development framework, otherwise there is a serious risk of hesitation and loss of momentum in this area. as the un secretary-general ban ki-moon has said, achieving the mdgs by 2015 is a challenge, but it can be overcome. the current economic crisis, which is affecting much of the developed world, cannot slow down the progress made. we must build on the successes achieved so far. the eu must agree on a coherent position, based on the mdg framework and future achievements in sustainable development goals. i hereby express my support for a responsible and comprehensive post-2015 development framework, based on the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and policy coherence for development, and aiming at the creation of a just and sustainable world, where every human being can exercise their rights and live free from poverty.
in writing. − in september 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, which was followed by the setting of concrete targets and a timetable to be achieved by 2015. since then, progress has been made towards the millennium development goals (mdgs), with targets to halve both extreme poverty and the proportion of people without reliable access to improved sources of drinking water. however, two years after the deadline, much remains to be done. this year the united nations will assess progress on the current mdgs and begin to look ahead to the post-2015 development framework. in this regard, the eu cannot fail to have a coordinated and coherent position on the post-2015 development framework, supporting a responsible and comprehensive post-2015 development framework, based on the principles of human rights, equality, non-discrimination, sustainability, good governance and policy coherence for development, aiming at the creation of a just and sustainable world, where every human being can exercise their rights and live in dignity and free from poverty. i therefore supported this report.
in writing. − given that the un will assess progress on the millennium development goals (mdgs) later this year and the european commission is about to adopt a communication addressing the mdgs assessment and the post-2015 development framework, it seems to me more necessary than ever to reflect on the future of mdgs and development policy. despite the considerable progress achieved on the mdgs, it is necessary to take into account the new global landscape in which poverty is reaching new dimensions, many developing countries are highly vulnerable to shocks from climate, food and demographic crises and new challenges such as high unemployment (especially among young people), lack of social protection, environmental degradation are intensifying. i therefore consider it crucial that the eu takes a common, effective and ambitious stance in the discussions on the post-2015 framework, which should be a comprehensive framework, incorporating the core issues of development and sustainability and including for this purpose not only the mdgs but also the sustainable development goals. special emphasis should be placed on disadvantaged groups such as women, children, the elderly, the disabled, thus promoting the overall well-being and desired prosperity.
in writing. − the united nations (un) launched a campaign in 2000 involving countries of the north and south, in which the former committed to helping the latter to halve extreme poverty and other human development indicators within 10 years. the first time target was postponed to 2015 because it was impossible to meet. less than two years to 2015, and while we are highlighting the remarkable progress, some targets remain unfulfilled. it is therefore time to think about the period after 2015. the eu needs to learn from the past to create better policies for the future, not just in development but in all the areas where globalisation dictates north-south interaction. reducing extreme poverty and improving access to the most basic conditions for survival worldwide is imperative and must be inherent in all trade, environmental, development or other policy-making processes. this is so that in all its actions the eu is contributing to making it possible for at least one more person to have access to clean water, food, education and health.
in writing. − on 8 september 2000, following the united nations millennium declaration, 191 countries adopted the millennium development goals (mdgs): eradicating extreme poverty and hunger, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and creating a global partnership for development. the mdgs were intended to be achieved in a time frame of 15 years. with two years to go, it is the ideal time to take stock of what has been achieved and prepare a post-2015 framework. the mdgs have reduced poverty and hunger, access to clean water, access to education for many children, and so on. despite this success, much remains to be done to fully achieve the mdgs. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by filip kaczmarek because i agree with his recommendations that we should be optimistic and reach an agreement. despite the dwindling financial resources, we must look for alternative sources of funding so that we can continue to help the poorest to build, universally, a more just society.
in writing. − the millennium development goals (mdgs) have raised awareness of the need to end global poverty as an urgent challenge and priority for global action. two years from the 2015 deadline for the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), we can say that significant progress is being made, for example, the targets of reducing by half both extreme poverty and the proportion of people without reliable access to improved sources of drinking water have been achieved, and the living conditions of more than 200 million people living in degraded neighborhoods have been improved, the number of girls enrolled in primary education now equals that of boys, and rapid progress has been made in reducing infant and maternal mortality. although there is still a long way to go, we are on the right track and we are certain that all the objectives will be achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which emphasises the objective of access to universal health coverage combining treatment and a preventive approach.
in writing. − the millennium development goals (mdgs) have raised awareness of the need to end global poverty as an urgent challenge and priority for global action, thanks to their limited set of concrete, timed goals and targets. i would like to stress that significant progress has been made so far in halving the number of people living in extreme poverty or without reliable access to improved sources of drinking water or in improving the living conditions of more than 200 million people living in slums. i am in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must continue to promote the mdgs, eradicate poverty in the world, improve health, nutrition, education and social protection, and ensure peace, security and human rights-based development.
the fight against road accidents must first of all recognise the multiple causes of this phenomenon, which implies action at various levels in promoting road safety. a strategy to substantially reduce the number of injuries must be based on a broad debate involving experts, the public and drivers. in the present circumstances, the analysis of this problem cannot ignore, among other factors, the impact of the deteriorated state of many roads and the state of maintenance of some vehicles. in portugal, the installation of tolls on several motorways without quality road alternatives has led to a very sharp growth in traffic on roads with lower safety conditions. the importation by some countries of heavy vehicles which have already outlived their useful life in their countries of origin and, in general, the degradation of the public transport service, the further liberalization of vehicle inspection activity, favouring business to the detriment of the certification function and worsening the working conditions of technicians, the insistence on public-private road partnerships, are factors, among many others, which cannot also be ignored in this discussion.
madam president, commissioner, water pollution is a threat to the aquatic environment, it jeopardizes the quality and quantity of drinking water and it is one of the main environmental concerns. the water directive set the objective of achieving good environmental, chemical and quantitative status of european water bodies by 2015 and defined strategies to combat pollution. the review of the list of priority substances has identified new substances which pose a risk to the aquatic environment. the agreement reached does not include the three drugs in the priority list but does include them in the watch list. the important thing is to monitor the presence of pharmaceutical substances in the water because they are hazardous to health, and being on the watch list allows us to do that monitoring and that monitoring, we hope. the progressive extension of the maximum number of substances in the watch list and the exploration of synergies with other relevant legislation such as reach or legislation on pesticides and biocides is welcome.
madam president, water is an inalienable public good. their good conservation requires the observance of stringent criteria that ensure a high level of protection of public health and the environment, but it requires more: it requires public water and outreach services, public research and development institutions, specialised technical and scientific personnel, as well as a set of firm measures to defend, secure and protect water as a strategic public good. all this is now being called into question in several countries, such as portugal, where the european commission, through an intolerable and repeated policy of interference, as it has itself admitted, has been pushing for the privatisation of water services, imposing policies and measures which seriously weaken the capacity for monitoring and intervention in defence of water, its quality and good conservation. it is a move which is in flagrant contradiction to all the rhetoric which justifies this legislation, even in view of its obvious weakening as a result of the negotiations between parliament and the council.
mr president, on 27 june a general strike was held in portugal, with one of the largest numbers ever in the whole country and in the various sectors of activity, industry, services, the private sector and the public sector. in industry, the closure of many companies, such as the alfeite arsenal, the viana do castelo shipyards or lisnave. in the fisheries sector, there was a general stoppage of fishing lots and fleets. in transport, widespread stoppage of trains and metros and national seaports and a huge impact on airport operations. in the public administration, many hospitals and health centers were hit hard by the strike. many young people with precarious ties who, despite the situation of blackmail in which they live, have had the courage to stand up for their rights. and many other examples. what are the european institutions' views on the general strike in portugal? not one. because this strike was an undeniable demand for the rejection of right-wing policies, as reflected in the agreement with the troika, that is, the policies of the european union. the portuguese workers want the troika out of portugal and they have said it loudly, exercising their right to strike. the european union is so democratic that it pretends that nothing has happened.
mr president, i congratulate the commission, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their respective contributions to strengthening blue growth through transport and tourism, as well as maritime spatial planning, integrated coastal zone management, fisheries and aquaculture, shipbuilding and employment, energy and biotechnology, research and innovation, and extraction of minerals from the seabed. the position taken in the report, which puts one of our potential assets at risk, must be reviewed urgently in this sector. the proposed recycling of metals does not appear to be sufficient to meet the needs of industry, so it is not an argument to dispense with the extraction of marine ores, but rather to invest in studies on its feasibility and to justify the comparison of the production of metals by extraction and recycling, to assess the impact of this activity, promoting technologies that ensure its sustainability. to this end, the european union is funding the midas project - managing the impacts of the exploitation of high seas resources with around eur 10 million between 2014 and 2016. this is an excellent opportunity to gather sound and credible scientific information on mineral extraction necessary for future decision-making in this sector. we have a social obligation to enjoy the riches of our planet, under an environmental duty to do so in a sustainable way.
i congratulate mrs toia on putting on the european agenda the extraordinary capacity for performance that the cooperative sector is demonstrating in these times of crisis that we are going through. i would particularly stress its suitability and potential to generate the much needed sustainable responses in the economic, social and environmental fields which have been so badly hit. the greatest resilience of cooperative enterprises, including financial ones, is due to their model of partnerships which put the interests of all their members first, making their participation and security in the medium and long term inalienable principles. a clearly opposite model to those that focus on the pursuit of high short-term profits to serve the interests of a few and that have led us to this crisis. i therefore call for a practical and ambitious push to make the cooperative model a useful tool for jobseekers and all those trying to ensure the continuity of their businesses, so that they can find in it a valuable way of organising and financing their activity.
mr president, cooperatives are a form of economic organisation with specific characteristics, values and principles which are opposed to the logic of the private market. the socialisation of profits for the benefit of the cooperative enterprise, the principles of equality between its members, the strong economic and social link with the environment in which they are integrated, and respect for industrial relations are values which, in the context of the intensification of neoliberal policies, must be defended and supported. we are therefore in favour of this report in general. however, there is a whole framework in the report with which we disagree: the inclusion of cooperatives in the single market, which is based on the logic of competitiveness and the colonization of the weakest economies by the strongest, is diametrically opposed to the principles governing cooperatives. it would also be important to clarify that, in the process of transforming a solvent company into a cooperative, it is not the workers who inherit the debts that were not created by them, but by the private managers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, in a context of inexorable and progressive scarcity of resources and of increasing harmful accumulation in the environment of by-products resulting from their consumption, resource efficiency and the recovery and treatment of waste are unquestionably priority areas for intensifying research and development efforts. more than a means of simply harnessing innovative ideas that can be transformed into products and services to be launched on the market, the investment effort in these areas is a necessary means of responding to the problems and challenges facing humanity today. innovation must be a key element of public policies in areas such as the environment, water, energy, agriculture, transport and others, but we must not forget that in many countries, and especially in those countries targeted by the european union and the imf, the limitation, and even the destruction, of technical and scientific capacity resulting from the so-called austerity policies irreparably compromise investment in this and other areas.
member of the commission. - mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr bartolozzi, for his comprehensive proposal and for parliament’s strong support for the bioeconomy strategy and action plan. we fully endorse the view that a modern, well-functioning bioeconomy is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. like parliament, the commission sees in the bioeconomy a convergence of opportunities and objectives: a smart use of our biological resources from land and seas; a low-carbon, resource-efficient economy; a reindustrialisation of europe based on innovation and the latest scientific knowledge; food security for all; and the development of new jobs and new sources of economic growth, not least in rural and maritime regions. all these aspects are especially relevant in the context of the economic difficulties currently facing europe. since the adoption of the bioeconomy strategy and action plan in early 2012, considerable progress has been made. the bioeconomy is still developing, so one of our important objectives has been to establish a bioeconomy observatory, to provide policy-makers, primary producers, industry and other stakeholders with authoritative, up-to-date information about relevant research, policy, and market developments. this is the first time in the world that an observatory of this kind has been set up. it will require the positive engagement of many different organisations to make this initiative a success. the commission’s joint research centre is already working hard to get the observatory up and running and producing results. we have also committed to establish a bioeconomy panel, to facilitate discussion, joint actions and exchange of experience between different stakeholder groups: researchers, producers, industry, civil society, and public administrations at regional, national and eu level. the 30 members of the panel have been selected, and the first meeting is scheduled to take place in september. i am pleased to confirm our invitation to parliament to nominate an observer to this bioeconomy panel. this will help to further consolidate the alignment between our two institutions on issues related to the bioeconomy. in february this year we organised, together with the irish presidency, the second annual european stakeholders’ conference on the bioeconomy, bringing together over 500 people representing a wide variety of different interests related to the bioeconomy. we are grateful to meps paolo bartolozzi and mairead mcguinness for the valuable contributions that they made to this event. many of the conclusions of the conference are echoed in the report that you are debating today, such as the need for a coherent, coordinated policy; the need for investments in skills and training; and, the need for transparent and inclusive dialogue to ensure that the bioeconomy is built on broad-based public support. we look forward to working with the italian presidency of the eu in organising the next conference in the second half of 2014. as you all know, just last week the european parliament and council, together with the commission, reached political agreement on horizon 2020 – the next funding programme for research, innovation and science. let me assure you that within horizon 2020 there will be a substantial budget for bioeconomy-related research and innovation. this will include a significant proportion of funding for a new public- private partnership (ppp) on bio-based industries. the commission very much appreciates the clear support that the parliament report gives to this ppp and to the bioeconomy research budget as a whole. this ppp in particular will help to finance pilot and demonstration activities of the kind that the draft resolution calls for. finally, i would like to underline that the commission is very pleased that the draft resolution repeats the call to eu member states to develop their own national and regional bioeconomy strategies. i could not agree more. while there is much we can and will do at an eu level, the bioeconomy will only realise its full potential if actors at national and regional level understand the opportunities that this presents for them and put in place the appropriate policies, funding, and governance mechanisms.
in a political and economic context of deepening capitalist globalisation, of increasingly asymmetrical interdependence of economies, of dismantling the instruments of regulation and control of production and trade, export credits can be another factor in deepening inequalities, whether north-south inequalities or inequalities within heterogeneous economic blocs such as the european union. it is clear that such practices are in contradiction with the kindly aims that are so insistently proclaimed in areas such as development cooperation, to give just one example. the defenders of the sacrosanct principle of free capitalist competition do not dispense with these very visible hands which always overthrow the myth of the invisible hand by introducing factors which distort competition, by introducing unequivocal factors which disrupt the weakest productive systems.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, on behalf of commissioner de gucht i wish to thank you, and in particular the rapporteur, mr yannick jadot, represented by ms keller, for this report and the highly interesting views on export credits which are reflected in it. the global financial crisis has demonstrated in an impressive manner how essential the availability of adequate financing is for global trade flows. export credit agencies play a vital role in this process. they are therefore instruments of strategic importance in our wider efforts to support the interests of european exporters. it is, however, also vital to ensure that there is appropriate transparency at european level on how export credit agencies operate and what they achieve. this has been one of the objectives of regulation (eu) no 1233/2011 and in particular of the reporting mechanisms which it has established. looking at the outcome of the first reporting exercise under this regulation, let me make the following observations. the european commission shares the view expressed in the present report that member states in their annual activity reports have made available the financial and operational information on export credits requested in regulation 1233/2011. the european commission confirms its commitment to conduct external policies in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union. we take particular note of the observations on the policies applied to export credit transactions contained in the present report. we will further analyse them and see how – in due consideration of the wording of the regulation and in agreement with all parties involved – appropriate follow-up can be given to them. the commission would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the support expressed in the present report for our ongoing efforts to engage the major emerging economies in the establishment of the new international working group on export credits. countries like china, india and brazil have become major new players in export credits in recent years. engaging them in a constructive dialogue will be an important challenge. commission de gucht will duly keep parliament informed on further developments in this field.
president of the european council. − mr president, honourable members, after the march european council meeting i reported to you on the broad agreement among all leaders on our strategy to bring the european union to recovery: first, restoring and maintaining financial stability; second, making our economies more resilient and competitive, with structurally sound public finances (using the flexibilities in our common rules) and long-term reforms; third, fighting, directly and indirectly, unemployment, and i added explicitly, especially for the young; and the fourth element of our strategy was working towards a genuine economic and monetary union – preparing for the future. looking back at the decisions taken at or just before the june european council – because sometimes the pressure created by having a european council meeting can concentrate minds – it is striking to see that on each and every one of the four strands of this strategy we are moving forward, we are making progress – gradually, but decisively. as is now the tradition every june, we discussed and endorsed the country-specific recommendations, thus closing this year’s european semester, which is the cornerstone of our new economic governance. though only three years old, it is already the most advanced surveillance and policy coordination mechanism in the world. we welcomed the agreement reached by finance ministers the night before the european council on the directive on recovery and resolution. this is a crucial matter, which can now be taken forward with parliament in the legislative process before the end of this parliamentary term. together with the single supervisory mechanism and the directive on capital requirements (where parliament’s efforts to finalise the legislative work have been of vital importance), this directive on resolution and recovery is essential for the completion of the banking union, which is a key element of the work on a genuine economic and monetary union. the banking union remains an immediate priority – and the european council stressed this again forcefully – as it will help ensure financial stability, reduce financial fragmentation and restore normal lending to the economy. on the latter point – restoring normal lending to the economy – european leaders also took action and we agreed on an investment plan for europe, based on a joint report by the commission and the european investment bank. the aim is to address the credit crunch that is holding back the very companies that should be driving the recovery: local smes, and the start-ups of today which will perhaps be the success stories of tomorrow. we need to bring oxygen deep into the system, across the whole union, and especially in the most vulnerable countries. we also agreed on concrete measures with an immediate impact to fight youth unemployment, which is a most urgent concern for our societies – and a concern we also discussed in the presence of the european social partners in a prime example of social dialogue at work at eu level. we decided to scale up and speed up the youth employment initiative, so that the money starts flowing as of 1 january 2014. most of the money will now be spent in 2014-2015, the years when it is most needed; moreover, the flexibility offered by the mff means, in effect, that there will be substantially more available for the youth employment initiative than the eur 6 billion we had initially foreseen for it; according to projections at least eur 8 billion in total. we made a clear link between this youth employment initiative and the youth guarantee – to ensure that within four months of leaving school or becoming unemployed, every young person gets a good offer for a job, education or training. we also called for other important actions – for instance promoting cross-border mobility through the eures and erasmus+ programmes, including vocational training, as well as high-quality apprenticeships. these measures will undoubtedly boost the efforts taken by national governments, with which the bulk of the responsibility lies. during the european council it was clear that leaders are eager to exchange experiences and best practices, just as they will again at tomorrow’s meeting in berlin. the decisions that the european council took just a couple of days ago on the financing of the economy and the fight against youth unemployment would not have been possible without the agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework by the presidents of the parliament, the council and the commission just a couple of hours before the start of the european council. last thursday, the european council unanimously and firmly gave its political backing to the mff agreement. based on that, member state representatives have, in the meantime, formally approved it. i hope that you will equally approve the mff later this week. it will be a catalyst for investment and growth and jobs across europe – which is particularly urgent and necessary at a time of crisis, a time of high unemployment and of doubts about the european project. indeed, the best way to restore confidence and prove these doubts wrong is by showing that europe is delivering, that we are leaving a difficult situation behind and can jointly cope with the challenges of the future. of course, there is still a lot of work ahead of us, on many fronts – for instance on the deepening of economic and monetary union, on which i gave heads of government a detailed state of play last friday. but this should not prevent us from reaffirming loud and clear that, even if the road is still long, we are on the right track and that when our institutions work together for the common european good – and the mff is an example – europe is capable of producing concrete, tangible results. as i have just said, we are producing results, and last week proved it. the june european council also proved that our european project remains attractive for those who are not yet part of it. on friday morning, we agreed to move forward towards opening accession talks with serbia, and to take an important step in our relations with kosovo. we welcomed croatia as a member of the european union and latvia as a member of the eurozone. so, we are welcoming new members, and not – as some had predicted – losing them! to sum up, the june european council reached some important agreements. i should add one more of special interest to parliament – namely the formal adoption of the decision establishing the future composition of parliament, on the basis of the consent it had given. and at the same time we prepared the way for other decisions still to come. this may not, perhaps, be to the taste of those who want either spectacular revolutions or confrontations but nonetheless it was an important and useful meeting, taking our common strategy forward together gradually but decisively and in good cooperation with all other institutions of our european union. allow me to mention another matter which i know is of great concern here, as elsewhere, and on which my spokesperson released a statement on my behalf yesterday. i am very concerned by the press reports with allegations of us surveillance of eu premises abroad and in brussels. the european union, via its external action service, is examining the allegations and is in contact with us authorities. the european union has demanded and expects full and urgent clarification by the us regarding the allegations. i take note of the remarks today by us president barack obama and his commitment to provide all the information that us allies want and what exactly the facts have been. at this stage, i cannot provide any further comments. i will continue to follow this matter with the attention it deserves.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by welcoming the new members of this parliament from croatia. on behalf of the european commission and in front of this house, i want to wholeheartedly welcome croatia as the 28th member of the european union. before entering into the subject of today’s debate, there is an issue of political importance that i would like to raise immediately, as this is the first opportunity that i have had to do so in front of this house. it concerns the recent reports on american activities in the european union and member states. if the reports prove to be true, it would be very disturbing and raise serious and very important concerns. this is why as soon as the media reports were released we asked the us for full and immediate clarification on the matter. the vice-president/high representative catherine ashton, who has competence in such matters has raised the issue, together with her services, with the united states and discussed it personally with secretary of state kerry. yesterday the executive secretary general of the european external action service, pierre vimont, asked the united states ambassador to the european union to meet with him at eeas headquarters. the commission will also address this issue in the context of the working group of experts that is being set up by vice-president reding and commissioner malmström together with the council presidency – on the european union side – and with us attorney general holder – on the us side – to exchange information on intelligence collection of information and get clarity notably on the prism programme. the commission expects clarity and transparency from our partners and allies, and this is what we expect from our united states partners. over recent months and years, the european union has made an impressive and unprecedented effort to stabilise the euro and adapt our structures and policies to meet the challenges posed by the crisis. we still have a lot of work to do, however, before we can leave the crisis behind. as i said to the european council last week: the crisis is not over. we should not let up in our efforts for stability and growth by completing the emu, correcting our public finances, structural reforms for competitiveness and targeted investments for growth. the june european council was precisely about everyone taking up their responsibilities. it has delivered some very important results: by endorsing the country-specific recommendations for structural reforms as proposed by the commission, by stepping up the fight against youth unemployment, and by taking decisions aimed at restoring normal lending to the real economy, notably to smes. i have to mention first one result that was achieved a few hours before this summit actually started, and which turned out to be a precondition for its success. i am talking about the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework reached in the morning of thursday 27 june between the irish taoiseach, the president of the european parliament and myself. i was delighted that both president schulz and taoiseach kenny, holding the presidency of the council, were able to accept my invitation and strike this political deal, without prejudice to the final decision of this house and the formal decision of the council. the deal reached was based on very extensive negotiations conducted by the council, parliament and commission and their respective teams – i want to congratulate all of them – and i hope it will be formally endorsed both by you and by the council. the extremely challenging dynamics of the negotiation process – unanimity in the council, consent by absolute majority at parliament – mean that nobody was able to reach all of their objectives. this is why – even though the commission has always supported a more ambitious european budget – i consider this agreement a crucial step for the european union in demonstrating its capacity to act and to take difficult decisions. the eu budget is an almost one trillion euro investment fund for growth and jobs. without it, everything we are trying to do for growth, for investment, for the regions, for young people, for employment and for research would be put at risk. in terms of the structural reforms needed to get our socio-economic framework in line with the demands of today’s global economy, the agenda was set out clearly in the annual growth survey and, in particular, in the country-specific recommendations presented by the commission five weeks ago. with the endorsement of these recommendations by the european council, a new step was taken in the european semester process. economic governance in the european union has reached a new stage of maturity and common ownership. everyone can now see that this is not a top-down process with the commission telling members what to do. but governments now should accept that reform, or lack of reform, in one country seriously impacts on neighbours and economic partners across europe, and sometimes across the world. we are all in this together, so we have to cooperate, coordinate, debate and decide together as well. this is what economic union means. this is economic governance at work. and it is working. now, we have to make our common efforts to work to tackle some of the social and economic challenges we are facing together – youth unemployment especially. most of the groundwork to turn this economically untenable and socially unacceptable situation around must be done at national level. therefore, the commission has proposed specific recommendations on youth unemployment for 19 countries: from reforming labour markets to reinforcing public employment services, from shifting taxation away from labour to improving education for the low-skilled, or supporting programmes for training and apprenticeships. there is a lot that national governments can and must do. i welcome the fact that the european council has clearly underlined that message. now governments must honour their commitments. the european institutions are there to guide and support this effort, in particular through the structural funds: we will speed up the youth employment initiative and front-load the funds so that the initial eur 6 billion is invested in the following two years, and not spread thinly over the full seven years of the mff period. if we want this money to really make a difference, we need to focus it on regions with youth unemployment rates of over 25%, and do so quickly. this is only possible if member states prepare specific youth unemployment initiative programmes and submit their plans this year. this will enable us to hit the ground running early in 2014. and as this house rightly stressed in the mff discussions, we need to guarantee funds for the years afterwards as well. so now – thanks to the increased flexibility that the european commission has always supported and that was finally agreed by the member states – the total amount spent on youth unemployment over the seven years can be estimated at above eur 8 billion. we also need to re-launch and expand the youth employment action teams. since we set them up early in 2012, these teams have helped eight member states reallocate around eur 16 billion in structural funds to the most pressing needs, to the benefit of about one million young people and 55 000 smes. the new teams will be sent to help countries prepare their youth employment initiative projects and implement the youth guarantee scheme. on top of this, we will boost the mobility of young workers – one of the unfulfilled promises of the internal market so far – by reforming eures, which already gives access to over 1.4 million vacancies in europe and nearly 31 000 registered employers across the european union. later today, in the margins of the worldskills competition in leipzig, the european commission will launch another important initiative, following the grand coalition for digital jobs we set up earlier. we will launch today the european alliance for apprenticeships, because not everything can be done by governments or other public institutions. we should also mobilise the social partners. business can do more to help create more and better quality apprenticeships. before the european council we met with the european social partners, and i was happy to see that all of them, trade unions and business organisations, were very committed to a stronger response from europe. and tomorrow, together with some twenty heads of state and government and labour ministers, we are also meeting with the president of the european parliament, in berlin, to add to the momentum of the fight against youth unemployment. all taken together, i would say: finally youth employment as a top priority seems an idea whose time has come. but ideas are not enough. our young people need actions, they need decisions, and they need jobs. so let us do it. the june european council also made measures to support financing to small and medium-sized enterprises a priority. i welcome that, on the basis of the recommendations in the joint report by the commission and the eib, the european council has supported much-needed action in this field. following the increase of its capital – that we were the first to advocate – the extra eib activities are expected to increase its lending activity in the eu by at least 40% between 2013 and 2015, with a particular focus on innovation and skills, sme financing, resource efficiency and strategic infrastructure. in our joint report with the eib, the european commission has outlined a number of options for launching ambitious joint risk-sharing financial instruments to leverage private-sector and capital-market investments in smes in the very near future. our proposals aim at fully exploiting the joint potential of the structural funds, together with loans from the eib. the european council committed member states to do their part of the further preparatory work in order for these instruments to be fully operational by january 2014. it was also agreed to accelerate the implementation of the project bonds pilot phase, with nine projects in six countries in the pipeline already, of which the commission will present its assessment later this year. with our communication on the ‘top ten’ consultation of smes, we urge all parties involved to take a long hard look at themselves to see if their role in legislation is a burden or a help to smes. we should always try to lighten the load of regulation, where possible, without lowering our standards or losing sight of the agreed common european goals. i believe these are the key issues that determine, in the short term, both the effectiveness and the legitimacy of our reform efforts. with the compact for jobs and growth we wanted to pool and reinforce the broader agenda of measures to support growth as a priority. one year on, on the basis of the comprehensive implementation report i presented to the european council – it is now publicly available – we can only conclude that follow-up to the compact for growth has been a mixed success. there have been some real breakthroughs, such as the recent agreement on professional qualifications and public procurement, but in other areas progress has been uneven or simply too slow. we must speed up work on the single market act proposals, on the digital single market, the internal energy market and the european research area. time is running out, so i hope to be able to count on your persistent and powerful support to push through as much of our growth and jobs agenda as possible by the end of the term of this parliament. but decisions at european level are not the same as implementation at national level, so my message to the european council was also clear: europe’s economic recovery must begin at home. the last point i would like to make concerns the deepening of the economic and monetary union. one of the main reasons why we have been able to overcome the existential threat to the euro is that the european institutions and member states have signalled their determination to learn the lessons of the crisis, to complete the emu, and to make it irreversible. we cannot backtrack on that promise. the only way is forward, as set out in our blueprint towards a deep and genuine emu. but sometimes we receive conflicting signals on the political will to move further. last week we saw an important breakthrough with the council’s agreement on a common approach to dealing with failing banks without relying on taxpayers’ money. the commission is now looking forward to working closely with parliament with a view to finalising this by the end of the year at the latest. the next step is a single resolution mechanism, on which the commission will present its proposal in the next two weeks, and i hope that we can make swift progress on that. this will ensure effective european decision-making on problematic banks within the single supervisory mechanism. the forthcoming implementation of the two-pack takes us one step closer to a fiscal union. today i would like to announce that, following our commitment towards the european parliament as part of the overall agreement on the two-pack, the commission is now setting up an expert group to look into all merits and risks, the legal requirements and the financial consequences of initiatives of joint issuance of debt in the form of a redemption fund and eurobills the members of this, group chaired by gertrude tumpel-gugerell, a former member of the executive board of the ecb, combine impressive expertise with a varied background. i trust it will make a very good contribution for further work by the commission and by this parliament. last week in the european council we also discussed the other building blocks of the emu, based on the commission’s ideas on ex-ante policy coordination and the competitiveness and convergence instrument. we will soon present a report on the social dimension of the emu, which is an essential complement to fiscal and political integration. to leave the crisis behind and to address the economic and social priority of fighting unemployment, we need to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, because they form the heart of the european economy. these enterprises need to address the issues that matter for european competitiveness. to continue on the path of structural reforms, the younger generations need to see a future for themselves. to recover the confidence of investors and citizens alike, we need to maintain the momentum of our efforts to reform the institutional set-up of the emu. this european council certainly represented progress, and we should be in no doubt about what the next steps towards growth and jobs will be. let us now focus on delivery.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr swoboda, you have come here to talk about austerity, and you are quite right, but the european social democrats and the european socialist parties have been selling the austerity treaty, the budgetary treaty, to the people of europe. they said it was the discipline needed, that they wanted to counterbalance it with solidarity, with the reinforcement of the solidarity needed. i note that in his speech he avoided agreeing on the multiannual financial framework, an agreement which gives us the dimension of true european solidarity. for the first time in history, the budget is being reduced in absolute terms. at a time when inequalities and divergences are widening and cohesion funds are being reduced, this is the true face of european solidarity. the socialist parties are now going to defend this agreement to the people with what faces, mr swoboda?
mr president, the conclusions of the european council, wrapped in new doses of propaganda, do not hide the hard and hard facts. let us look at the measures on youth unemployment: a proposal of 6 billion euros which we do not know where it comes from or where it goes, but we know that the ilo has admitted that at least 21 billion euros are needed for a programme to promote employment to have any impact. other proposals include wage subsidies and the promotion of crossborder labour mobility, i.e. the community budget to finance directly job insecurity and the flight of brains from the periphery to the centre. another proposal is to reduce non-wage labour costs, i.e. to further decapitalize public social security systems and increase employers' profits, without any practical effect on job creation, which will only grow with increased demand, which will only happen with the improvement of the wages that are being crushed. in short, nothing new, everything old, everything very old.
mr president, the conclusions and the agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 will condemn this europe to eternal austerity and it is regrettable that the socialist group, which was opposed to this framework in february, now agrees with the conclusions and which has been an important part and the crutch of the epp in this agreement. this agreement not only brings nothing new, it masks reality. the 6 billion euros for youth employment is not new money, half of that money will be taken from the european social fund. it is an insult, it cannot in any way reverse unemployment in europe. aid to the most deprived is just a crumb of which this parliament should be ashamed. i would now like to ask the president of the commission ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. only strong and far-reaching measures that restore confidence and put europe on the path to strong, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth will enable us to overcome the current economic and financial crisis. among the various measures agreed, i would like to highlight the decisions taken to combat youth unemployment, which has reached dramatic proportions, with some 5 million young people unemployed in europe, and as a result of which we are in grave danger of seeing a whole generation grow up without any real prospects for the future. i welcome the financial reinforcement provided for under the youth employment initiative. i am afraid that the budgetary shortfalls resulting from the council's myopia and british imposition are not up to the challenges we have to face. member states should make efforts to adapt the training of young people to the real needs of the labour market, for example by introducing new traineeships and training which will enable young people to enter the labour market better prepared. at the same time, they should encourage greater dynamism and competitiveness in the labour market, for example by introducing tax incentives for the recruitment of young people. measures to support entrepreneurship and to strengthen the erasmus+ and erasmus first employment european programmes were also approved.
in writing. on 27 and 28 june, the heads of state or government of the 27 european countries agreed on a number of measures to promote youth employment, latvia's accession to the euro area and economic and monetary union. i would like to emphasize the results achieved in the area of youth employment, due to the fact that the european institutions have finally adopted a resolution with concrete measures that can be applied in most member states. at a time when the average rate of youth unemployment in europe is already over 23% and in some countries over 60%, i believe it is urgent to implement new measures to promote youth employment, such as promoting increased mobility at european level, reducing the gap between higher education and the needs of the labour market, or supporting venture capital firms, business angels or the creation of business incubators that stimulate young entrepreneurship. finally, i would also call on the member states to reduce corporate taxes for companies when they hire a significant number of young people, reducing the unemployment rate and the social costs associated with it and increasing the capacity for innovation and technological leadership.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this debate has very clearly demonstrated how successful the irish presidency was. there was clear progress on banking union; there was the completion of the third european semester; there was achievement of cap and fisheries reform; there was a political agreement on the youth guarantee programme; there was an agreement on the mandate for eu-us free trade talks and, of course, also historic steps for croatia, serbia and kosovo being undertaken under the irish presidency. at the same time, taoiseach, you managed to get your country on the path towards recovery. for all this i would really like to thank you and congratulate you, but i think the most important achievement of your presidency was clearly the agreement on the multiannual financial framework and on the draft amending budget for 2013 and other complex issues linked to it. as this debate has clearly shown, the negotiations have been very difficult, but we in the commission are convinced that this was the best deal under very difficult circumstances. the deal was, from february, clearly improved, thanks to the very skilful negotiations of the european parliament’s negotiating team and the personal involvement of the president of the european parliament. of course, this would not have been possible without the great work of the irish presidency, the tánaiste and his close collaboration with commissioner lewandowski. i also would like to pay tribute to minister lucinda creighton, who was already referred to in the previous debate as the minister who had always been there when the difficult debates were taking place and who really promoted the cooperation between the presidency and this parliament to new heights. as you know, mr president, the success of a presidency always depends on political vision, strong commitment and hard work. you brought all these qualities to your presidency. many council meetings ran over time and several of them had to be repeated because you wanted them to have a clear reflection of typical irish qualities: strong pro-european dedication, hard work, resilience and the refusal to give up, and on top of that, to do it all in a good atmosphere with your special, excellent irish humour! strong leadership needs strong support and you had it from your very efficient administration in dublin and also your excellent team in brussels at your permanent representations. many trialogues were concluded thanks to the enormous effort of your ambassador, rory montgomery, and his team. dear taoiseach, thank you very much for a job well done and for an excellent presidency. (loud applause)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i have listened carefully to what the honourable members have had to say here and i want to thank those who uttered kind words about the presidency. let me say that i am well aware of the difficulties that everybody had in regard to the mff. indeed, from a national perspective ireland supported a higher level of resources, but as the presidency we were required to work within the remit and the responsibility given to us. from the first exchanges with parliament, the presidency recognised that this would hinge around the question of balance: on the one hand, the overall amounts, and on the other hand, the flexibility and the review necessary to make this budget work. you also sought to reflect the politics of a parliament which is coming towards the end of its mandate by seeking an opportunity for the next parliament to review and possibly revise in the light of changing economic circumstances and unforeseen events. parliament was not willing to bind the hands of the chamber that will be elected next year in 2014, and the presidency appreciated that concern indeed. i could outline for you all the changes that were made to meet the concerns of the parliamentary negotiators, and they could list a whole range of issues which they feel were not addressed. however, what makes for a good outcome is that there is a balance at the end of the negotiations. the proposal before you, the elected members of the european parliament, stands or falls on its merits. the vote tomorrow is a matter for the members here in this chamber. the treaties make this very clear. an mff regulation can only be adopted by the council with the consent and the authorisation and the approval of the european parliament. there have been substantive and detailed negotiations and you have the outcome from last thursday agreed and recommended by both president schulz and myself. ireland no longer holds the council presidency, so it is not for me to represent council positions now in a formal sense, but of course ireland’s membership and its interest in this union have not changed. it is from that perspective that i would suggest that we need to stand back from the negotiations and from the forgeing of proposal and counter proposal and look at what we need to do now for our 500 million citizens. the union needs to get on with the job now of planning for the deployment of the investment plan, for the investment of eur 960 billion – eur 960 billion – to be released into the real economy. the mff on the table is the most valuable instrument that we have at our disposal to make an impact and make a difference. we have no more time to lose and for that reason i would urge the members of parliament to vote tomorrow for the proposal. let me just refer to a number of issues that were raised here. mr swoboda said that the implementation of the mff is urgent and is critical. i agree with that 100%. if we are to make an impact in the countries of the union, it is into the real economy that the implementation and the investment of the eur 960 billion has got to be made. mr cohn-bendit, i am glad to see you back, i do not like to see politicians leave the field of battle, as it were. you made a very impassioned plea and i understand the frustration that you feel, but we have a very significant element of money in here and it is up to you and everybody else to see that it is implemented effectively. i thank you for your contribution in that regard. by the way, i did not ask the citizens of europe to thank us, but merely pointed out that it is now our continued responsibility to deal with their problems and this mff budget is part of that. it might not be enough in many people’s eyes, but it is the best instrument that we have got. in respect of mep murphy, who described this as an austerity budget: by any stretch of the imagination – by anybody’s imagination, even mep murphy’s – eur 960 billion is a not insignificant amount of money to inject into the real economy of the european union. for that reason this is about real jobs for real people and it beats any alternative that i have heard proposed from mr murphy’s quarter. i might also say that the trade talks between the european union and the us have not yet commenced. they are not due to commence until july, as was agreed at the g8 summit in county fermanagh in ireland. i do hope that, under the current circumstances, the facts that are needed to be exposed here and presented are dealt with and that we can move on and focus on what needs to be done here in bringing to a conclusion, in the next two years, trade talks that could result in very significant growth in economies and very significant growth in job numbers both throughout europe and throughout the united states. i would like to thank mep gallagher for his comments about the peace dividend funds for northern ireland. i might point out that – with his interest in fishing – we also adopted the atlantic strategy with commissioner geoghegan-quinn between canada, the us, portugal, spain, france, britain and ireland as a model to be implemented for others. in respect of the comments made by ms trüpel and ms anderson, people will always say that we never have enough money, but the political reality is that we have to ask european taxpayers to fund the budget and the leaders of 27 different countries and 27 different governments agreed on a budget of eur 960 billion. i think it now makes best sense to get on with implementing that in the interests of the people, particularly the 26 million who are unemployed throughout europe. i reject ms anderson’s assertion that ireland’s negotiations of these elements of the budget were an embarrassment. i congratulated tánaiste gilmore and minister creighton for their work. it is beneath ms anderson actually to say that this was an embarrassment for our own country and she also makes the point that we did not reach agreement in respect of domestic violence. i would remind ms anderson that we did reach agreement on the european protection order which recognises domestic violence protection across borders and that is an issue that we were very happy to be associated with. i might say that we also had a facility for personnel from northern ireland to serve here in the permanent representation in brussels to be fully acquainted with all of the issues that were being discussed by the politicians as we moved towards the successful conclusion of these matters. of course, i want to formally express my government’s welcome to croatia as it joins the union. we are stronger and better for croatia’s presence making us now a union of 28 members. i also want to make it clear that i am pleased that under the irish presidency we were in a position to agree the opening of accession negotiations with serbia and of talks with kosovo on a stabilisation agreement as well as opening a new chapter in the negotiations with turkey. this was ireland’s first council presidency under the revised post-lisbon arrangements with a greatly enhanced role for this parliament, and as the presidency we had to adapt to this and we had to learn some new ways of working and negotiating with our colleagues. if one thing was clear to all of the irish presidency ministers and officials it was the centrality of parliament’s role in the european union business and for all other presidencies following ours; let that be a central lesson in their negotiations and their understanding. our presidency programme had to be delivered with and through parliament and it was a better presidency because of that fact. i am deeply grateful to parliament, to its president and to its leadership. we owe a great deal of gratitude to the committee chairs, to the rapporteurs and the members in the way in which you constructively engaged with the irish presidency since last january. of course, as we step back from the limelight of the presidency, the responsibility does not go away; the work does not diminish. ensuring stability and growth and jobs for our citizens will continue to remain the key challenge for us. tomorrow you will have a presentation on the priorities of the lithuanian presidency, from president dalia grybauskaitė, and i wish lithuania the very best of success as they take over the mantle from ireland. there is so much to do and we look forward to supporting them as presidency and working with our colleagues here. can i conclude by saying that intensive engagement by the irish government with the european union will now build on the reinforced set of relationships and capacity that has been born during our presidency. i remain committed to continuing to develop our engagement with the european union institutions and the member states so that our country, ireland, remains where it belongs firmly at the heart of europe. next year, 2014, brings the european elections. some of you politicians will not stand, some of you politicians will stand, some of you will be elected, some of you will not and some new members will be elected to this great parliament here. but your duty is to contribute to implementing what has now been decided in the interests of the citizens of the countries that we represent and get on with that job through cooperation and implementation, and let that be your hallmark. that is your duty; that is your responsibility; that will be your responsibility. our citizens – your citizens – will not thank us if we fail in that duty and europe, our home, will not prosper if we shirk our responsibilities. (loud applause)
the irish presidency comes to an end with the conclusion of the agreement between the presidents of the three institutions parliament, council and commission on the proposal for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. as expected and as we have warned, after the appropriate theatricalisation, with vows that they would never approve the council's proposal for a multiannual financial framework, the right wing and the social democrats in parliament have agreed to conclude an agreement which represents a complete concession to the great powers who are leading the integration process. after agreeing to the adoption of the budget treaty, which perpetuates the so-called austerity policies, the social democrats came to say that the strengthening of discipline would be matched by a strengthening of solidarity, expressed in a strengthening of the eu budget. this is what the socialist party in portugal did and said, joining the right as usual. the significance of the european solidarity so widely espoused is once again clear. for the first time, the community budget is being reduced in absolute terms, even in the context of a new enlargement. at a time when inequalities and divergences between countries are increasing, cohesion funds are being cut. portugal will lose about 10% of eu funding compared to the current financial framework. and it will lose even more with the deepening of this capitalist integration.
in writing. - i welcome this report, taking into account that the current economic environment offers a good opportunity to modernise the staff regulations of officials of the european union so that they better reflect the demographic and economic reality of europe. however, i think it is essential that the principles underlying a sound and modern personnel policy in the european institutions be based in particular on the need to reward performance and quality of service and to take account of geographical balance. the rapporteur believes, and i agree, that these principles should be at the heart of the new reform and that any changes should also ensure the fairness of the european union system, reflect the efforts to consolidate national administrations and the conditions offered by other international organisations.
in writing. the report under review, by mrs dagmar roth-behrendt, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union. the economic and financial crisis requires fiscal consolidation in the member states. so this moment should be an opportunity not only for them to reduce their spending on the public sector but also to make the public administration much more efficient. the european institutions must be a reference in terms of human resource management, by hiring independent and highly qualified staff. i therefore welcome this initiative to reduce the budget lines for staff and to redirect financial resources towards productive investments that promote economic growth and job creation. because this is a resolution which aims to provide the european institutions with a sound and modern personnel policy which, in addition to taking account of geographical balance, is based on the criteria of competence and quality, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu institutions and agencies together employ some 55 000 officials and other staff. the philosophy of this report is clearly to legitimize the view/myth that the economic crisis is directly or indirectly due to an excess of workers' rights and, as such, also to legitimize the subsidiary political practice of this view, which is to attack workers in their rights and wages. this fact alone conditions and determines our position against the report. this reform - which has been opposed by workers, who have undertaken various measures of struggle, including strikes - will, they say, save a total of 8 billion euros at the expense of workers' wages and pensions. the commission proposes to reduce the staff of each institution and agency by 5%. the rapporteur acknowledges (and accepts) that, while the objectives and the workload are maintained, this cut implies that each worker will take on a share of the additional workload. other proposed savings measures include the increase in working hours without compensation in terms of pay, the increase in the retirement age from 63 to 65 years, the elimination of the expatriation allowance. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the report, although i recognise that the proposal presented to the ep plenary contains very substantial improvements on the original proposal of the european commission, which is due to pressure from the trade union organisations. however, i cannot vote in favour of a report which ignores the situation of precarious workers, so numerous in the european institutions, and which raises the retirement age from 63 to 65.
in writing. − the institutions and agencies located in the different eu places of work and their delegations in third countries employ, in total, some 55 000 officials and other staff. the reform of the staff regulations and the european civil service introduced in 2004 has made it possible to modernise them and improve their cost-effectiveness. this reform will result in savings totalling eur 8 billion by the end of 2020. the main objective of this proposal is to introduce a new method of adjusting wages and pensions, including the application of the exception clause and the special contribution. in this time of crisis, we must all contribute to combating it, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. the commission proposal on which this report is based is aimed mainly at introducing a new method of adjusting wages and pensions, including the application of the exception clause and the special contribution. this intervention is required by the expiry, at the end of 2012, of the applicable provisions of the staff regulations and by the need to respond adequately to a judgment of the court of justice (case c-40/10). although the amendments required by the abovementioned expiry date could be confined to the scope of the current proposals for amendments to the staff regulations, the commission decided to go further. i voted in favour of this report and i agree with the rapporteur that she thinks it appropriate to speak only on the points which need to be amended. the major reform of the staff regulations, which has led to substantial savings, was carried out a few years ago and is still having an effect which must be properly analysed.
in writing. − taking into account, on the one hand, the expiry at the end of 2012 of the applicable provisions of the staff regulations and, on the other, the need to respond to the judgment of the court of justice in case c-40/10, the commission has timely submitted the proposal aimed at introducing a new method of adjusting salaries and pensions, including the application of the exception clause and the special contribution. the proposal is being presented in the context of the financial crisis in europe and incorporates the savings measures contained in all the budget lines in the multiannual financial framework. the rapporteur therefore concludes that the amendments contribute to the balance between the realisation of savings and the need to ensure that the institutions carry out the tasks entrusted to them in accordance with the obligations and powers laid down in the treaties. in view of the rapporteur's assessment, i voted in favour of the report on the staff regulations of officials of the european union.
in writing. - i voted against the report, although i recognise that the proposal presented to the ep plenary contains very substantial improvements on the original proposal of the european commission, which is due to pressure from the trade union organisations. however, i cannot vote in favour of a report which ignores the situation of precarious workers, so numerous in the european institutions, and which raises the retirement age from 63 to 65.
in writing. − the european parliament has considered that no political agreement on the reduction of staff in the union institutions and bodies should prejudice its budgetary powers in the context of other processes, such as the annual budgetary procedure or the forthcoming negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and therefore strongly opposes any attempt to anticipate the outcome of these negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in this context, i voted in favour of the document which aims to amend the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants and which will enter into force in 2014.
in writing. − the institutions and agencies located in the different eu places of work and their delegations in third countries employ, in total, some 55 000 officials and other staff. the staff regulations and the european civil service are undergoing a major reform with the aim of saving €8 billion by the end of 2020. we voted against because the financial cuts to be made will be at the cost of the loss of acquired rights of workers and even of redundancies. the aim is, for example, to reduce the staff of each institution and agency by 5%, to increase working hours by introducing a minimum number of working hours (40) without compensation in terms of pay, to reduce the annual leave for travel to the place of origin to 3 days, to increase the retirement age from 63 to 65, among other measures. we can't agree.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that international civil liability in nuclear matters is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on the civil liability of third parties in the field of nuclear energy. both conventions share similar principles as regards substance. the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy. the union therefore has exclusive competence with regard to those provisions contained in the protocol and member states cannot become contracting parties to the protocol with regard to those provisions. in order to address the remaining lack of uniformity between member states as regards the rules governing the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage, i welcome the commission's decision to commit to considering the extension, in a future proposal, of the solution of giving precedence to union rules to the member states which ratified the 1997 protocol prior to their accession to the european union, namely latvia and romania, and to the member states which are contracting parties to the paris convention.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal to amend the vienna convention to provide adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage, as it will allow the contracting parties to the vienna convention to conclude the 1997 protocol until the commission has put forward a proposal to allow for greater uniformity between member states in the area of adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents.
in writing. the vienna convention establishes the necessary rules to ensure adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special system of civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. with regard to eu member states, the union has exclusive competence with regard to the provisions contained in the 1997 protocol and member states cannot become contracting parties. however, the council proposes to authorise bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol in so far as their accession to the eu is subsequent to the ratification of the protocol by the union. in view of the importance of the matters covered by the protocol, i support the rapporteur in his recommendation that this report be adopted.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by mr alajos mészáros, concerns a recommendation to the european parliament to approve the draft council decision authorising certain member states to ratify or accede, in the interest of the european union, to the protocol adopted on 12 september 1997 amending the vienna convention of 21 may 1963 on civil liability for nuclear damage and to make a declaration on the application of the relevant rules of eu law. considering that all member states have the same rights and obligations, it is essential that there is uniformity in all matters, in particular as regards the rules governing the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage. all victims of nuclear accidents must be treated fairly and be properly compensated. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the member states which have adopted the vienna convention (bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia) must ratify or conclude the protocol to the 1997 vienna convention in order to be able to benefit from the compensation due to victims of nuclear accidents.
in writing. the international nuclear liability regime is governed mainly by two instruments: the vienna and paris conventions. the vienna convention was adopted in 1963 with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents in the field of nuclear energy. it was amended by the 1997 protocol, which contains a new definition of nuclear damage, incorporating the concept of environmental damage and prevention measures, broadening the geographical scope, extending the period during which claims may be submitted, increasing the minimum amounts of compensation. this protocol amending the vienna convention, adopted under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency, includes provisions on jurisdiction and on the recognition and enforcement of decisions affecting provisions contained in eu law. the eu therefore has competence over the provisions of the protocol and member states cannot become contracting parties to the protocol in so far as those provisions are concerned. the council proposes to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia, to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol. in this context, we consider this proposal for a decision to be justified.
in writing. − international civil liability in nuclear matters is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the paris convention. the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy. with the adoption of this regulation, the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia, are hereby authorised to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol.
in writing. the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents by creating a special system of civil liability in the field of nuclear energy. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to address the remaining lack of uniformity between member states as regards the rules governing the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage.
in writing. the draft council decision proposes to authorise certain member states to ratify or conclude the protocol to the vienna convention adopted on 12 september 1997 under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency. this protocol contains provisions on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of decisions affecting provisions of eu law. the rapporteur recommends that parliament give its consent to the draft council decision in order to allow the conclusion of the agreement on mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the field of nuclear damage.
in writing. the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage concerns fair and adequate compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents through the establishment of a civil liability system. this purely technical recommendation allows member states to become contracting parties to the protocol to the vienna convention adopted in 1997, since the union has exclusive competence in this area.
in writing. the proposal for a council decision authorizing the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage of 21 may 1963 (vienna convention) to ratify or accede to the protocol amending that convention. the vienna convention was adopted on 21 may 1963 with the aim of ensuring adequate and fair compensation for victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents. the vienna convention was amended by the 1997 protocol and contains a new definition of nuclear damage. the council therefore proposes to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia, to ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol. the report recommends that parliament give its consent to the draft council decision. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that, in the context of a thorough modernisation of state aid rules, in order to contribute both to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and to fiscal consolidation and growth, article 107 of the treaty must be applied throughout the union in an effective and uniform manner. council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 of 22 march 1999 codified and reinforced the commission's previous practice of increasing legal certainty and supporting the development of state aid policy in a transparent environment. however, in the light of the experience gained from its application in recent situations, such as enlargement and the economic and financial crisis, certain aspects of that regulation should be amended in order to provide the commission with simplified and more effective instruments for the control and enforcement of state aid. i therefore believe that the commission must be given more effective instruments to bring about greater transparency, as the article in question provides.
in writing. - articles 107 and 108 tfeu lay down the community rules on state aid. regulation (ec) no 659/1999, which clarifies the procedural rules for the implementation of these articles, is now subject to a proposed amendment to make state aid better contribute to the implementation of agenda 2020 and to the economic prosperity of the member states. the commission's proposal aims to make the reporting process more effective and transparent and to collect and process information more efficiently. the commission will not have to adopt a formal decision on complaints that do not comply with the necessary information requirements or are unfounded, and parliament proposes the same procedure for situations where no irregularities are detected. as regards the collection of information, the commission may extend the range of sources of information and sanction officials who supply misleading or omitted information. the ep should ask the commission to investigate specific cases in certain sectors and to play a more prominent role in this area. i support this report which, by helping to eliminate distortions of competition in the internal market, is good for european citizens.
in writing. − as part of the overall reform on the modernisation of eu state aid policy, this proposed amendment aims to create the necessary conditions for state aid to best contribute to the pursuit of the objectives of the eu 2020 agenda. two important changes are worth highlighting: improvements in the handling of complaints and the collection of market information. this will make these processes faster, more efficient and more transparent, and help the commission to focus on the really important issues.
in writing. - sirpa pietikäinen has presented us with a report on a proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of article 93 of the ec treaty (state aid). state aid is governed by articles 107 and 108 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in the light of the commission communication, it is necessary to modernise the union's policy in this area. improvements in the handling of complaints are essential to make the procedures faster, more efficient and more transparent, thus helping to discourage fraud. state aid must be aimed at the integrated development of the single market and must not undermine the proper functioning of the european union. i voted in favour of this proposal as the objective is to make state aid contribute to improving the implementation of agenda 2020 and to promoting economic growth and prosperity in the member states.
in writing. - the neoliberal approach embodied in this report is clear. it is argued that the commission should examine the cases submitted to it and take great care not to exempt too many activities from state aid control, lest some sovereign state decide to interfere with the operation of the sacrosanct free market. on the other hand, federalism is being strengthened by providing the commission with simplified and more effective instruments for monitoring and enforcing state aid, i.e. by supporting the direct collection of information from market players by the commission, replacing what was until now a sovereign competence of each member state and its institutions. another fundamental question remains to be resolved: member states with money in their budgets - the biggest beneficiaries of eu integration - can help their businesses, associations or institutions. member states which do not have it are at a clear disadvantage. this is an inequality that no legislation can solve. limiting state intervention in the economy is the aim of the eu and legislation like this. but nothing is said about the billions of euros poured into the financial sector, with the eu's blessing.
in writing. − the community rules on state aid are currently contained in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (hereinafter referred to as the tfeu or treaty). thirteen years after its entry into force, the procedural regulation needs to be modernised to adapt the state aid procedure to a european union with 27 member states, 500 million inhabitants and 23 official languages. the current economic and financial crisis has put at risk the integrity of the internal market and demonstrated the importance of sound and efficient control and enforcement of state aid. we need better instruments to intervene in time to meet the needs of businesses and to promote the correct use of public resources in growth-oriented policies. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in 1999, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 659/19991 which further defines the procedural rules governing the application of articles 107 and 108 tfeu, which have been applied to date without significant changes. more than 13 years after its entry into force, the procedural regulation needs to be modernised to adapt the state aid procedure to a european union with 27 member states, 500 million inhabitants and 23 official languages. i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament which welcomes the commission's objectives and proposes limited amendments to the draft regulation which aims to ensure that the commission has at its disposal effective tools to ensure that member states receive state aid in accordance with the agreed rules.
in writing. - articles 107 and 108 tfeu lay down the community rules on state aid. regulation (ec) no 659/1999, which clarifies the procedural rules for the implementation of these articles, is now subject to a proposed amendment to ensure that state aid contributes more effectively to the implementation of agenda 2020 and to the economic prosperity of the member states. the commission's proposal aims to make the reporting process more effective and transparent and to have a more efficient collection and processing of information. the commission will not have to adopt a formal decision on complaints that do not comply with the necessary information requirements or are unfounded, and parliament proposes the same procedure for situations where no irregularities are detected. as regards the collection of information, the commission may extend the range of sources of information and sanction officials who supply misleading or omitted information. the ep should ask the commission to investigate specific cases in certain sectors and to play a more prominent role in this area. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposals in question help to eliminate distortions of competition in the internal market.
in writing. - community rules on state aid were first introduced in 1952 in the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community and in 1957 in the treaty establishing the european economic community. they are currently enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i support this report because the proposed reform of the procedural regulation covers two areas which are considered to be fundamental, namely improving the handling of complaints and ensuring greater efficiency and reliability in the process of collecting market information. finally, i would like to emphasize that the commission should focus its attention on cases of state aid which have the potential to distort competition in the internal market, while safeguarding the economic and social constraints of the outermost regions which must have favourable derogations from state aid.
in writing. - the neoliberal concerns are present and are transversal to the whole report. the majority of meps believe that the commission should examine the cases submitted to it and be very careful not to exempt too many activities from the control of state aid, lest a member state decides to interfere with the operation of the sacrosanct free market. on the other hand, federalism is reinforced by arguing that the commission should be given simplified and more effective instruments for monitoring and enforcing state aid, i.e. by supporting the direct collection of information from market players by the commission, replacing what was until now a sovereign competence of each member state and its institutions. the question of substance remains unresolved: the member states that have money in their budgets - the biggest beneficiaries of eu integration - can help their smes, their associations or institutions, the member states that do not have it are at a clear disadvantage. this is a very big inequality that no legislation can solve. there is a great deal of hypocrisy when you are talking about issues like state aid and at the same time talking about fiscal consolidation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, given that aviation is now a key sector of the european economy. it contributes €365 billion to european gdp and accounts for 5.1 million jobs, but seven years after the commission's communication on the future of the european union, the eu is still the world's largest economy. the eu has not yet achieved its objectives. it is time to make rapid progress in the european aviation sector. new economic challenges are emerging from regions of the world where much more permissive legislation allows companies to build huge new airports that divert many travellers from europe's central airports. the european union urgently needs increased airport capacity to avoid the risk of losing competitiveness in the face of regions experiencing exponential growth (concerns are focused on the asia-pacific, middle east and south america regions).
in writing. − aviation is now a key sector of the european economy, contributing €365 billion to european gdp and accounting for 5.1 million jobs. new economic challenges arise from regions of the world where much more permissive legislation allows companies to build new airports that divert many passengers from european airports. the eu therefore needs more airport capacity to avoid the risk of losing competitiveness in the face of regions experiencing exponential growth. the eu needs to maintain a competitive aviation sector. in this respect, a significant number of agreements with key partner countries have been negotiated since 2005. however, other decisive agreements still have to be reached, including with australia and new zealand. despite the need for liberalisation, the eu needs to continue to defend european interests and standards. it must therefore pay particular attention to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and compliance with european regulations. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − given the importance of the aviation sector to the european economy, and the lack of progress in the implementation of the ees and sesar, i agree with the rapporteur's position that punitive measures should be taken against member states that have not met the deadline of december 2012 and have not made any progress on fabs.
in writing. − the aviation sector is a fast-growing area of the economy within the eu, but not as fast as outside it, especially in regions such as asia and the middle east, reflecting its economic growth momentum. the economic and financial crisis has had a greater impact in certain regions than in others, which has forced union airlines to face enormous competition challenges, leading them to cut more than 20000 jobs since 2012. we can only counter this trend by taking a more coordinated and ambitious approach, by creating a sound and comprehensive external policy in the aviation sector, by helping to create a strong european position in the world market and by encouraging fair and open competition, which should benefit not only businesses but also consumers. in addition, within the union, air carriers face strong competition from low-cost carriers, which represent 40% of the air supply in the union, and it is therefore necessary to find the best ways to complement each other's business models in the face of external market challenges.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the aviation sector plays a very important role for the union, in particular in terms of growth and employment, and it is therefore necessary to maintain a strong and competitive aviation sector in the union.
in writing. - to appreciate the importance of aviation in contemporary life, imagine for a moment a world in which we do not yet have the ability to travel by air. certainly communications, transportation and trade would operate with increased difficulty and significantly slower. looking back, we can see enormous progress since the early days of experimental aviation, both in terms of flight range, technical and technological progress, and the carrying capacity of aircraft. the european union has a number of important airlines, the most modern fleets, the best airports and a single and open market which gives its citizens access to a wide range of routes and services with a high level of professionalism and safety. however, like other industries, european aviation is also suffering from the impact of the current economic and financial crisis. it is up to european decision-makers to try to help reverse this state of affairs, to make the aviation sector globally competitive and to give new impetus to this market.
in writing. - the aviation sector, despite being in a difficult crisis, is very important to the european economy, accounting for more than five million jobs and €365 billion. the size of this sector requires a multifaceted analysis. firstly, it is essential to boost their growth so as to create more jobs. this requires increasing movement through a strong and consistent focus on emerging markets, while promoting the growth of regional airports with a view to decongestion of major airports. other issues to be taken into account concern the protection of consumer rights, in particular the safety of passengers and their property. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to ionising radiation is a very good one. the question of the airspace over siberia, which is fundamental to air links between the eu and canada, is also not without its concerns and reciprocity conditions must be required. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague, marian-jean marinescu, because the eu's external policy in the aviation sector needs to be reoriented in order to make it a stronger and more competitive industry.
in writing. − the report highlights the progress made in creating an open regional single market in the eu and advocates a common eu approach to its external aviation policy. the objective, as always, is to strengthen the single market. european regulatory convergence is considered to be key to a strong european position in the world market. in other words, this report challenges the interests of european multinationals in the aviation sector and points the way to strengthening the monopoly concentration in the sector at european level, providing better conditions for these monopolies in the dispute with companies from other regions of the world. the rapporteur stresses the importance of creating and implementing mechanisms such as ses, sesar, easa and gnss. it states that these instruments, created to support the internal market, will therefore help the eu in its external policy in the aviation sector. it is noted that the completion of these instruments will consolidate the position of the european sector, making it stronger. it is also stated that some mandatory procedures need to be strengthened. for example, functional airspace blocks, which are essential for implementing the single european sky, should be completed as soon as possible. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. - aviation is now a key sector of the european economy. it contributes €365 billion to european gdp and supports 5.1 million jobs. there is, however, a great deal of room for improvement in this industry, as demonstrated by the enormous growth in the asia-pacific, middle east and south america regions. investment in airport infrastructure should be taken seriously, even if at present the demand does not exceed the supply. however, it is necessary to use the current capacity with maximum efficiency, through better management of slots and the use of non-core airports for congestion reduction. in strategic terms, the european union needs to maintain a competitive aviation sector. the most important aviation markets today are outside europe and european companies therefore need to be developed in those markets as well.
in writing. − aviation is now a key sector of the european economy. it contributes €365 billion to european gdp and supports 5.1 million jobs, but seven years after the commission's communication developing the community's external policy agenda in the aviation sector, the eu has still not achieved its objectives. it is time to make rapid progress in the european aviation sector. in this context, i voted in favour of this report which calls for a more coordinated and ambitious approach by the union to create fair and open competition, since, despite the work done over the last seven years, a comprehensive external policy in the aviation sector has not yet been adopted. i also agree with the proposal for european regulatory convergence as a key element for a strong european position on the world market, which is decisive for relations with third countries.
in writing. - the commission is called upon to promote an international legal framework that will boost the economic vitality of the sector, creating opportunities and removing obstacles for airlines. this is of course without prejudice to labour and environmental standards, passenger rights and respect for european regulations. the aviation relations of the various member states of the union with other countries should be shaped in such a way as to protect community interests and help to consolidate the position of the union industry in the competitive world market. the rapporteur therefore concluded that the continued growth of the aviation sector and the need to manage the effects of this growth depend on the common foreign policy of the member states as outlined in this report, which i supported.
in writing. − the external policy in the aviation sector is of the utmost importance to the european union, contributing €365 billion to european gdp and accounting for 5.1 million jobs. however, this sector faces enormous challenges, including the emergence of strategic hub airports outside the european area, the divestment of airport infrastructure and the loss of competitiveness of the airline industry. it is therefore necessary to make progress at internal level with the single european sky, in particular with functional airspace blocks and the implementation of ses, sesar and gnss. on the external front, we must move forward with airline agreements with regions such as the middle east, asia and latin america, while respecting european standards on environmental, labour and regulatory issues, as well as passenger rights. the external policy in the aviation sector is undoubtedly an asset for european companies and citizens.
in writing. − the report highlights the progress made in creating an open regional single market in the eu and advocates a common eu approach to its external aviation policy. the objective, as always, is to strengthen the single market. in other words, this report challenges the interests of european multinationals in the aviation sector and points the way to strengthening the monopoly concentration in the sector at european level, providing better conditions for these monopolies in the dispute with companies from other regions of the world. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the commission report clearly indicates the scale and importance of export credit activities. the declared exposure from the activities of member states' export credit agencies during 2011 amounted to more than eur 250 billion, including 260 transactions with high notified environmental implications. as already stated during the legislative process for regulation no 1233/2011, the rapporteur appreciates the fact that member states have such an instrument, which contributes to trade and business opportunities for european companies. the annual reports of the member states and the commission's assessment of them are far from satisfying parliament's wish to be able to make such an assessment. this is particularly the case with regard to information on the non-financial elements of annex i, such as the treatment of environmental risks in the calculation of export credit agency premiums and compatibility with the union's external policy objectives.
in writing. − in 2011, the parliament and the council decided by common accord to transpose the 2005 oecd export credit agreement into community law. the agreement provided that future versions of the oecd provisions would be transposed by the commission by means of delegated acts, while ensuring increased transparency of member states' export credit activities at the level of the european union. regulation no 1233/2001, which is the result of this procedure, provides for a duty of the commission to inform parliament of the negotiations undertaken in order to establish global rules in the field of export credits receiving official support. the commission is asked to provide guidance to member states so that in the next annual reports the commission is actually able to provide parliament with an assessment in which it can state whether member states' export credit activities are compatible with the objectives of eu external action. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − export credits are an important instrument to support trade and investment by european companies in the field of international trade. i agree with the elements suggested for the annual reports of the national agencies.
in writing. - in the face of the contraction of european economies, the need for european companies to diversify their markets and not stick to the union's borders is becoming increasingly evident. to achieve this, it is often necessary to grant them credit to acquire or strengthen their export capacity. however, attention must be paid to the need for this facility to comply with european legislation and not to be used for purposes which jeopardise the rights and freedoms of the people of third states. i hope that the companies will make good use of the credit received and that this aid will strengthen europe's export capacity, thereby promoting job creation and strengthening trade relations with other parts of the world.
in writing. - the economic crisis we are experiencing calls for more and more financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, since they are the backbone of the european union's economy. in a situation where national economies are stagnating - if not regressing - the export route is one of the few ways of achieving the economic growth and job creation we so desire. it is therefore essential to create financing and support lines for exporting companies that ensure maximum transparency in their operation. i voted in favour of the report by mr yannick jadot on the first annual report from the commission to the european parliament on the activities of the export credit agencies of the member states, because it is essential that parliament should be aware of how public money is spent, especially after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i therefore welcome the commission's commitment to implementing external policies on financial transactions in accordance with the recommendations contained in this report and which are in line with the guidelines of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd).
in writing. − regulation no 1233/2011 aims to improve the transparency of export credit agencies (eca) by requiring member states to submit annual eca reports containing the following elements: information on assets and liabilities, payment claims settled and recoveries, new commitments, exposures and premiums received, as well as contingent liabilities that may arise from officially supported export credits; information on how environmental risks, which may entail other relevant risks, are taken into account in officially supported export credits; information on an assessment of the compatibility of eca with eu objectives and obligations. the rapporteur points out that there is a lack of transparency in the reports that have been known and calls for improvements at this level, increasing the content of the information provided on aces so that its impact in various areas can be more easily assessed. these are, in essence, justified concerns.
in writing. − in 2011, the 2005 oecd export credit arrangement was transposed into community law. the agreement reached in this process provided that future versions of the oecd provisions would be transposed by the commission by means of delegated acts, while ensuring increased transparency of member states' export credit activities at eu level. it is important that the commission establishes an annual reporting framework on the export credit activities of member states in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1233/2011 in order to promote transparency at eu level and thus enable us to monitor the compliance of member states' export credit agencies with the international export credit disciplines and obligations under the eu treaty.
in writing. − in 2011, the parliament and the council decided by common accord to transpose the 2005 oecd export credit agreement into community law. it is expected that the annual reports of the member states will take account of this activity. the reports sent by the member states to the commission and the assessment made by the commission are far from satisfying parliament's intention to be able to assess the compatibility of export credit activities with the union's external policy. this is particularly the case for information on non-financial elements such as the treatment of environmental risks. in this respect, i support the rapporteur's request that the commission provide guidance to the member states so that in the next annual reports the commission will be able to provide parliament with an assessment of whether, in its view, the export credit activities of the member states are compatible with the objectives of the eu's external action.
in writing. − export credits are an important instrument to support trade and investment by european companies in international trade. member states' export credit activities during 2011 amounted to eur 250 billion, which translates into significant trade and business opportunities for european companies. in 2010, parliament negotiated obligations to provide stricter information requirements for member states and the commission in relation to export credits. the new reporting requirements, first applied in 2011, aim to enhance transparency and ensure monitoring of compliance with international standards for export credits and compliance with eu treaty obligations. however, the annual reports from the member states are far from meeting parliament's objectives. the rapporteur therefore made recommendations for the next report in order to help improve the information presented.
in writing. − according to article 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the common commercial policy is conducted in accordance with the principles and objectives of the union's external action. credit activities are of great importance to member states in 2011 due to their total exposure of over eur 250 billion, including 260 transactions with significant notified environmental implications, which translate into significant trade and business opportunities for european companies. i am in favour of this report because it allows for greater verification of the compatibility of export credit agencies with the objectives of the union's external action and provides the necessary information on the treatment of environmental risks in the calculation of export credit agencies' premiums.
in writing. − regulation no 1233/2011 expressly aims to improve the transparency of export credit agencies (eca) by requiring member states to submit annual eca reports with elements on assets and liabilities, payment claims settled and recoveries, new commitments, exposures and premiums collected, as well as contingent liabilities that may arise from officially supported export credits; on how environmental risks, which may entail other relevant risks, are taken into account in officially supported export credits; on an assessment of the compatibility of export credit agencies with eu objectives and obligations. the rapporteur points out that there is a lack of transparency in the reports that have been known and calls for improvements at this level, increasing the content of the information provided on aces so that its impact in various areas can be more easily assessed. these are, in essence, justified concerns.
in writing. - i approve this report, as the office of the chief prosecutor of the court of appeal in lyon has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, marine le pen, in relation to a possible legal action relating to an alleged crime of incitement to hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of persons on the grounds of their religious affiliation. the present judicial investigation was opened by the public prosecutor in lyon on 13 january 2012 in response to a complaint for damages, in which the criminal case dated 1 december 2011 is brought by the association de défense des droits de l'homme. the complaint was lodged in response to the decision of the public prosecutor in lyon not to pursue the preliminary investigation which he had carried out in response to joint complaints submitted to him in connection with the same matter. marine le pen was given the opportunity to be heard in accordance with rule 7 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure and, according to that rule, a representative of her, bruno gollnisch, spoke on her behalf and, on the basis of the explanations given, there are no grounds for suspecting the existence of fumus persecutionis.
in writing. − following allegations that muslim prayers in the streets of france were a form of occupation by nazi forces, the office of the chief prosecutor of the court of appeal of lyon accuses marine le pen of inciting hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of people on the grounds of their religious affiliation and calls for the parliamentary immunity to be lifted so that she can be tried. marine le pen's statements were made in the context of the election campaign for the leader of the national front party and therefore have no connection with her activities as a member of the european parliament. in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, and although all the accused are considered innocent until the sentence has been passed, i voted in favour of this proposal to lift the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen.
in writing. - this report is based on the request of the chief prosecutor of the court of appeal of lyon for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of this parliament, marine le pen, in connection with a judicial action relating to an alleged offence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. let us recall here today one of the preamble's considerations to the international bill of human rights: whereas ignorance and contempt of human rights have led to acts of barbarism that revolt the conscience of mankind and whereas the advent of a world in which human beings are free to speak and believe, free from terror and misery, has been proclaimed as man's highest aspiration; faced with a crisis of colossal depth and planetary scope, capitalism will not fail, as in the past, to seek to subjugate the peoples by all means and using all weapons - if necessary, again barbarism and fascism. we voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the chief prosecutor of the court of appeal of lyon has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, marine le pen, in connection with a legal action relating to an alleged offence. marine le pen is accused of inciting hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of people on the basis of their religious affiliation, a crime under french law. since the accusation has nothing to do with marine le pen's position as a member of the european parliament, i am in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen, mep, in connection with a criminal action for incitement to hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of people on the grounds of their religious affiliation. given that the case does not fall within the scope of marine le pen's political activities as a member of the european parliament, that it concerns activities of a purely national or regional nature, that her speech was delivered to voters in lyon during her campaign to be elected president of the front national, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i agree that the decision to waive parliamentary immunity should be taken. on the basis of these arguments, i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen, as this is in accordance with article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the issue in question goes back to an alleged crime of incitement to hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of people on the grounds of their religious affiliation.
in writing. - this report is based on the request of the chief prosecutor of the court of appeal of lyon for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of this parliament, marine le pen, in connection with a legal action relating to an alleged offence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. let us recall one of the preamble's considerations to the international bill of human rights: whereas ignorance and contempt of human rights have led to acts of barbarism that revolt the conscience of mankind and whereas the advent of a world in which human beings are free to speak and believe, free from terror and misery, has been proclaimed as man's highest aspiration; we voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by welcoming the fact that negotiations in the council on the creation of a statute for the european foundation have been intensified again during the irish presidency of the council. i therefore encourage the member states to take this opportunity to work towards a rapid and broad introduction of the statute, with all guarantees of transparency, in order to remove obstacles to the cross-border activity of foundations and to promote the creation of new foundations that respond to the needs of people residing in the territory of the union or working for the public good or the interests of society. i would stress that the adoption of such a statute would contribute to the realisation of genuine european citizenship and would pave the way for the drawing up of a statute for the european association. i would also stress that the european foundation must contribute to the development of a genuinely european culture and identity, with the potential to create jobs for young people, a group in which unemployment is reaching alarming levels.
in writing. - i consider it very important to harmonize the functioning of national foundations in order to facilitate their operation in the european single market, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the statute for a european foundation, because this initiative will facilitate the establishment and crossborder operations of foundations in the european area, which will thus benefit from a reduction in costs and consequently from a greater availability of funds for their public utility actions.
in writing. − the commission presented in february 2012 a proposal to create a european foundation statute that would remove barriers and facilitate the cross-border activities of foundations and the transfer of donations. the statute of the european foundation provides for the introduction of minimum standards in the areas of transparency, accountability, registration, control and audit. in the field of tax law, the principles of non-discriminatory taxation of foreign foundations should apply automatically in the future and without a comparability check. i think it is important that these standards be adopted, which are more harmonized but also compatible with national regulations.
in writing. − the role of foundations in the european union is unquestionable, especially at a time of crisis like the one we are going through and with member states subject to financial assistance programmes. the foundations are active in areas as diverse as research, education, health, social action, the environment, heritage protection, culture, sport, etc. in portugal, let me mention two foundations with international appeal which are a great honour to us: the calouste gulbenkian foundation and the antónio champalimaud foundation. there are many other foundations, much smaller in size, which also carry out worthwhile activities that could go international if the conditions were right. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, presented on 8 february 2012, to create the statute of the european foundation, which should be aligned with national regulations. i voted in favour of mrs evelyn regner's interim report on the proposal for a council regulation on the statute for a european foundation, as the benefits for all parties (citizens, donors, foundations and member states) are enormous.
in writing. − the number of public benefit foundations has been increasing, as has the range of operations (in areas such as education and research, arts and culture, social and health services and the environment), which are becoming more international in character. foundations face differences in legal, administrative and tax definitions and practices. this report aims to make this process both less costly and slower. the commission published its proposal for a statute of the european foundation (ef) in february 2012. it is intended for public-benefit foundations. the report makes a number of recommendations and amendments: the minimum level of assets of eur 25 000 must be maintained throughout the life of the foundation; the existence of a european foundation in any member state shall be for an indefinite period or for a defined period of time of not less than four years; with regard to employee representation, the negotiation process, which relates only to the information and consultation of employees in the eu, should provide for the participation of employees in the management of the fe; the registered office and the administrative head office of an elt shall be in the member state in which it is established; the proposal must be limited to a civil law instrument, while reinforcing essential elements of the public benefit concept. we abstained.
in writing. − foundations play an important role in the eu, particularly in civil society. through their different activities in a wide range of fields, they contribute to the fundamental values and objectives of the european union, such as respect for human rights, the protection of minorities, employment and social progress, the preservation and improvement of the environment or the promotion of scientific and technological progress. in doing so, they contribute substantially to achieving the ambitious goal of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as set out in the europe 2020 strategy and by promoting and facilitating a more active participation of citizens and civil society in the european project. however, foundations face a number of obstacles when carrying out their activities in the eu. it is therefore urgent to regulate its operation throughout the eu in order to remove all the constraints that currently exist.
in writing. − this report is based on the new statute of the european foundation. this statute sets out minimum standards for transparency, accountability, supervision and use of funds, which in turn can serve as a quality mark for citizens and donors, thereby ensuring trust in the european foundation and facilitating its activities in the eu for the benefit of all citizens. the european foundation must operate in more than two member states and contribute to the development of a truly european culture and identity. i would like to stress, among other reasons, the potential of foundations in creating jobs for young people, a group in which unemployment is at alarming levels, which is why i also voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the disparity in the civil and tax law applicable to foundations in the member states of the european union is an obstacle to the establishment of the activities of these public-benefit organisations in other territories of the union. the high costs of administrative procedures and the legal uncertainty associated with crossborder operations prevent the development of a truly european culture and identity. considering that the establishment of a common statute for the european foundation could greatly facilitate the centralisation and transfer of resources, knowledge and donations, as well as the carrying out of activities throughout the eu, i supported this proposal for a regulation, which aims, in a time of budgetary restraint, to strengthen the activity of public-benefit entities through a civil law instrument that strengthens the recognition and equivalence of the statute of foundations in the eu territory.
in writing. − the establishment of a common statute for the european foundation could significantly facilitate the centralisation and transfer of resources, expertise and donations, as well as the carrying out of various activities throughout the eu. the european parliament therefore welcomes the commission's proposal as an important step towards speeding up the support of foundations for public interest objectives across the eu. in addition, the proposed statute is an optional european legal form which will be available to foundations and funding companies with activities in more than one member state, but which will not replace or harmonise existing foundation legislation. i therefore believe that the member states should be encouraged to take this opportunity to work towards a rapid and wide-ranging introduction of the statute, with all guarantees of transparency, in order to remove obstacles to the cross-border activity of foundations. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - there are now some 110 000 public-benefit foundations in the eu. they are estimated to have a net worth of at least 350 billion euros. the commission published its proposal for a statute of the european foundation in february 2012, which was announced in the single market act. it is intended for public-benefit foundations. the main points of the proposal are the transformation of a national foundation into a european foundation or a merger of national foundations. it shall acquire legal personality by being entered in the register of a member state. european foundations will have legal personality and legal capacity in all member states and will benefit from the same tax regime as national foundations. the report calls, among other things, for the negotiating process to include the participation of employees in the management of the european foundation as regards the representation of employees. we abstained because we do not agree with the inclusion of foundations in the single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on port state inspection of ships, as it will make it possible to include the provisions of the maritime labour convention in the framework of the directive, while ensuring that the measures adopted for the purposes of this directive do not imply a reduction in the level of protection of workers, in accordance with the social law applicable in the union.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to establish minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. given the global nature of the maritime transport sector, those rules should apply to the entire sector. the responsibility for ensuring that ships comply with the relevant provisions lies with the owners, masters and flag states, and the eu must therefore provide mechanisms to ensure that the relevant standards are applied to all ships calling at union ports, irrespective of their nationality or flag. that is what this proposal is about.
in writing. − the main concern of the member states of the european union is people, whether they are european citizens or from other states. while their attention is focused on the welfare of their citizens, they also demand that all see their rights respected. mr simpson reports on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2009/16/ec on port state control of ships. the european authorities are most concerned about working conditions on board and the ship's environmental impact. as regards working conditions, it is essential that shipowners comply with the standards adopted by the international labour organisation, which are essential for the well-being and safety of workers. as far as the vessel is concerned, we all know that run-down, rusty vessels with leaking fuel or oil are sources of pollution and real threats to the environment. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it represents a major step forward in the protection of people and the marine environment by strengthening the 2006 maritime convention and i call on the 15 member states which have not yet ratified it to do so quickly so that it can enter into force on 1 august.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention adopted by the ilo applies to international maritime transport and covers matters such as the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers working on board a ship, accommodation, leisure, food and table service, health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection, among others. the convention aims to set common minimum standards for all flags and all seafarers and, having reached its 30th ratification in august 2012, can now enter into force. the european union intends to amend the existing directive 2009/16/ec on port state control of ships in order to align the text more closely with the content of the convention, making it clear that international minimum standards are not a reason to prejudice existing european standards when they are of a higher level. the commission also intends to ensure an information channel with the ilo to promote the dissemination of good practice and to strengthen the confidentiality of complaints in ensuring the protection of seafarers when lodging complaints. we supported the report.
in writing. - we have long advocated measures to establish minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. as the shipping industry is global, these standards should be applied to the entire industry. ships which do not comply with the standards are inadmissible, because they undermine the rights of workers, but also their safety and security, as well as the protection of the environment. the responsibility for ensuring that ships comply with the relevant provisions lies with the shipowners, masters and flag states. however, not all flag states effectively enforce these provisions. failure to comply with these rules leads to unsafe conditions on board some ships, putting human lives and the marine environment at risk. the eu must therefore provide mechanisms to ensure that the relevant standards are applied to all ships calling at union ports, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ship. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation (ilo) on 23 february 2006. parliament has long advocated measures to establish minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. given the global nature of the maritime transport sector, those rules should apply to the entire sector. measures to ensure compliance with minimum standards of working and living conditions on board ships play a particularly important role in achieving these objectives. ships which do not comply with these standards not only jeopardise the rights of workers but also their safety and security. the creation of an appropriate legislative framework is not sufficient and member states should, in addition, recruit an appropriate number of inspectors with the necessary qualifications to assess the working and living conditions of seafarers on board ships. i agree with the points made and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report aims to bring european union legislation into line with the commitments it has made at international level. the maritime labour convention (mlc), adopted in 2006 and in force since 2013, replaces 37 conventions and other recommendations on the working conditions of seafarers on board. the amendment to directive 2009/13/ec thus provides for the inclusion of the implementing provisions which are provided for in title 5 of the ctm, concerning the responsibilities of the flag state in the control of this european legislation. for these reasons, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention adopted by the ilo applies to international maritime transport and covers matters such as the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers working on board a ship, accommodation, leisure, food and table service, health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection, among others. the convention aims to set common minimum standards for all flags and all seafarers and, having reached its 30th ratification in august 2012, can now enter into force. the european union intends to amend the existing directive 2009/16/ec on port state control of ships in order to align the text more closely with the content of the convention, making it clear that international minimum standards are not a reason to prejudice existing european standards when they are of a higher level. we voted yes.
in writing. the aim of this proposal is to support and enforce roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment. the proposal improves the application of road and technical inspection schemes, in particular where the technical conditions of vehicles create a risk to road safety, through measures such as suspension or cancellation of vehicle registration. it is therefore necessary to introduce a procedure for the registration of vehicles which ensures that vehicles which pose an immediate risk to road safety are not used on public roads, providing for the suspension and cancellation of the registration of such vehicles until they are re-approved at a new roadworthiness test. the original registration of a vehicle re-registered in another member state will automatically be cancelled. following a decision of the european court of justice, it is considered that the validity of roadworthiness tests should be mutually recognised by all member states. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates that data relating to registered vehicles should be kept in national electronic registers, which will facilitate the exchange of information between member states and the fight against fraud and the illicit trade in stolen vehicles.
in writing. the aim of this proposal, which is part of the automotive technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment. it is therefore necessary to introduce a vehicle registration procedure which ensures that vehicles which pose an immediate risk to road safety are not used on public roads in any of the member states. once again, the end is being safeguarded, and this is commendable, but we must be aware that more bureaucracy means higher costs for businesses and, in many cases, loss of efficiency, which we cannot allow in the present crisis. therefore, increased security cannot mean more complex and time-consuming processes.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the inclusion and adjustment of some technical aspects is intended to introduce more precise specifications on the location of the registration, the suspension of the authorisation to drive on public roads for vehicles which constitute an immediate risk to road safety (until passing a new roadworthiness test) and the automatic cancellation of a registration in one member state when it is registered in another, as well as in the event of the vehicle being scrapped. parliament proposed adding concerns about the dimensions of registration certificates and the mention of roadworthiness tests, so as to reduce the paperwork that drivers must have in their possession at all times. it also introduces the recognition of the validity of roadworthiness tests by all member states and limits the delegation of power to the commission to a renewable period of five years instead of an unlimited period. we voted in favour.
in writing. the proposal aims to support and enforce roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment. it improves the application of roadworthiness and roadworthiness inspection schemes, in particular where the technical conditions of vehicles create an imminent risk to road safety, by means of measures such as suspension or cancellation of vehicle registration. in order to be marketed, vehicles must meet the applicable requirements for type approval, which ensures an optimal level of safety and environmental performance standards. the registration constitutes the official authorisation for the vehicle to be used on public roads and the confirmation that the vehicle meets the requirements applicable at the date. during its service life, a vehicle may be re-registered because it has changed ownership or been transferred for permanent use to another member state. it is therefore necessary to introduce a vehicle registration procedure to ensure that vehicles which pose an immediate risk to road safety are not used on public roads. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the aim of this proposal, which is part of the automotive technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment. the proposal improves the application of roadworthiness and roadworthiness inspection schemes, in particular where the technical conditions of vehicles create an imminent risk to road safety, through measures such as suspension or cancellation of vehicle registration. in line with the judgment of the european court of justice in the case of commission v kingdom of the netherlands (c-297/05), the rapporteur considers that the validity of roadworthiness tests should be mutually recognised by all member states. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the measures in question, which are aimed at standardizing rules and reducing red tape.
in writing. − this proposal introduces the suspension and cancellation of motor vehicle registration certificates through a new mutual recognition statute in the member states, which establishes european type-approval of roadworthiness tests for vehicles. the proposal aims to ensure that vehicles which are likely to cause an immediate risk to road safety are immediately banned from public roads. in view of the rapporteur's assessment and recommendations, i voted in favour of the proposal which introduces improvements to the vehicle inspection package.
in writing. − this report is part of a three-part package of reports, called the automotive technical inspection, which aims to harmonise the periodic, technical and road inspection of motor vehicles in order to increase road safety and environmental protection. the commission is proposing a number of changes, including penalties of suspension or cancellation of registration if the technical conditions are not met, the creation of a cross-border vehicle identification database and a reduction in the number of documents to be presented by drivers. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the inclusion and adjustment of certain technical aspects is intended to introduce more precise specifications as regards the location of the registration, the suspension of the authorisation to drive on public roads for vehicles which constitute an immediate risk to road safety and the automatic cancellation of a registration in one member state when it is registered in another, as well as in the event of the vehicle being scrapped. we didn't object.
in writing. − on 13 july 2012, the european commission presented the automotive roadworthiness package with the aim of enhancing road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by improving the current requirements in the field of periodic roadworthiness tests, roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles and vehicle registration. at present, there are huge differences between the way roadworthiness tests are carried out in the various member states. in this respect, the harmonisation of important elements such as the standards for assessing deficiencies, the level of knowledge and the competence of inspectors carrying out inspections, on the basis of the requirements for periodic technical inspections, will certainly contribute to the absence of unfair treatment and to the overall increase in the efficiency of controls. member states shall ensure that roadworthiness tests are carried out without discrimination based on the nationality of the driver or the country of registration or entry into service of the commercial vehicle. member states shall ensure that the personnel responsible for carrying out inspections are properly trained in order to avoid ineffective technical inspections. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for advocating the implementation of a risk-level classification system, with the aim of improving the efficiency of roadworthiness tests by early detection of the number and severity of defects in commercial vehicles during inspections.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. although the human factor is crucial to a successful road safety policy, the proper inspection of vehicles, which ensures their compliance with the required safety rules, is an equally important element. therefore, and taking into account that the number of vehicles found not to comply with the requirements in the field of roadworthiness tests during roadworthiness tests varies between 0,3% in one member state and 63% in another, further harmonisation of the rules applicable to roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles is essential.
in writing. the report introduces amendments to the commission proposal by clarifying that road inspections are only complementary to the main instrument, periodic inspection. the regulation introduces non-agricultural tractors, mainly used on public roads for the carriage of goods by road. at least 5% of the total number of commercial vehicles referred to in the regulation and registered in a member state and another 5% of commercial vehicles not registered but operated in a member state shall be inspected. furthermore, roadworthiness certificates and roadworthiness reports are required to have a standardised format across the eu and each company listed in the system should be assigned a risk profile according to a set of criteria relating to the inspections carried out on that company, in order to monitor more frequently who has a high risk profile with regard to road safety and environmental protection. we voted in favour. the application of these rules to light commercial vehicles is subject to the approval of an amendment already submitted to the tran committee and which has not been approved.
in writing. - the european parliament has always considered road safety an important societal issue. we must therefore once again give a clear signal of your commitment to road safety. alongside technical measures, it is the understanding of most that the effectiveness of road safety policy ultimately depends on the behaviour of users. for this reason, it is essential to educate, train and enforce the rules. however, the road safety system should also take account of human error and inappropriate behaviour and should correct them where possible. all actors, in particular vehicles and infrastructure, should therefore be less aggressive in order to avoid and limit the consequences of these failures for users, in particular the most vulnerable. the introduction of roadworthiness tests is therefore of the utmost importance in order to combat possible faults, especially those of vehicles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls for a clear legal framework on liability for the fitness of commercial vehicles. this is a very important issue which has consequences for the security of all european citizens. i agree with the proposals which clarify that companies operating commercial vehicles should always be responsible for the proper maintenance of their vehicles. companies shall ensure that regular inspections are carried out on those parts of a vehicle which may affect its fitness. as regards the burden, the question of liability is also clarified. since several operators may be involved in the handling and immobilization of the cargo of a commercial vehicle, responsibility should be assigned to each according to the tasks performed.
in writing. the commission proposes that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. according to the proposed regulation, which repeals directive 2009/40/ec, member states will be obliged to carry out several roadworthiness tests per year, within a clear legal framework on liability for the fitness of commercial vehicles throughout the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, by rail and by road.
in writing. − included in the motor vehicle technical inspection package, this report, which covers directives 2009/40/ec and 200/30/ec, presents a set of changes in the field of roadworthiness tests. the proposal excludes light commercial vehicles of category n1 with a maximum mass not exceeding 3.5 tonnes, as they are considered to be an excessive burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, and supports the introduction of a european-wide risk rating system. it also called on the commission to submit a new proposal for the harmonization of the rules on cargo. as far as road safety is concerned, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. the report introduces amendments to the commission proposal by clarifying that road inspections are only a complement to the main instrument - periodic inspection. tractors not used for agriculture are introduced, mainly used on public roads for the transport of goods by road. it is also required that roadworthiness certificates and roadworthiness reports have a standardised format throughout the eu. each company listed in the system should be assigned a risk profile according to a set of criteria relating to the inspections carried out on that company, in order to monitor more frequently those presenting a high risk profile with regard to road safety and environmental protection.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the impact of the proposed measures on citizens must be carefully assessed in order to avoid unnecessary financial and administrative burdens. a balanced outcome must be reached. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposals on the frequency of inspections by vehicle category, the establishment of minimum standards at union level, ensuring the quality of inspections, and the suggestion that the minimum parameters for historic vehicles be changed to make them more flexible. finally, let us not forget the role of the european parliament in the implementation of these measures.
in writing. − directive 2009/40/ec lays down minimum standards for the regular roadworthiness test of vehicles. the european commission has presented new rules for vehicle roadworthiness testing which aim to further enhance road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection by establishing common minimum standards for vehicle roadworthiness testing throughout the european union, with member states free to go further and introduce higher standards if they consider it appropriate. in this respect, the technical requirements and inspection methods laid down should be considered as eu minimum standards. member states should be allowed to maintain or introduce higher standards. the same applies to the qualification requirements for inspectors, which should also be considered as minimum. the commission also proposes to strengthen the independence of inspectors and to eliminate possible conflicts of interest. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support maintaining the current minimum rules, which stipulate that the first vehicle inspection must be carried out after four years and subsequent inspections every two years. the mandatory inspections should also be extended to trailers weighing more than two tonnes and to caravan trailers weighing more than 750 kg.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. although the human factor is crucial to a successful road safety policy, the proper inspection of vehicles to ensure that they comply with the required safety rules is an equally important element. therefore, and taking into account that the number of vehicles found not to comply with the requirements in the field of roadworthiness tests during roadworthiness tests varies between 0,3% in one member state and 63% in another, further harmonisation of the rules applicable to roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles is essential.
in writing. - a car park that is inspected and controlled is an essential aspect of road safety. this proposal for a regulation lays down minimum standards and criteria in this field. the main elements of the commission's proposal are to introduce mandatory technical inspections for scooters and motorcycles, as well as light trailers of less than 3.5 tonnes, which were previously left to the member states, into european legislation. the commission also intends to change the frequency of technical inspections by proposing that, for vehicles over six years old, the minimum frequency should be increased from two years to at least one inspection per year, i.e. the application of the 4-2-1 year formula depending on the age of the vehicle, which parliament does not agree with and which is being reverted to the 4-2-2 formula, thus weakening the initial proposal, which is why our group did not agree. the report also aims to regulate the minimum technical requirements and inspection methods in the eu, as well as the qualified and independent training for inspectors, and to reduce the delegation of powers to the commission. some of the shortcomings in the report justified our abstention.
in writing. - i am of the opinion that motorcycles and mopeds should be subject to compulsory technical inspections in all eu countries, as cars are at present. only then will we be able to increase road safety and halve the number of deaths on european roads by 2020. therefore, from 2016, motorcycles should be subject to mandatory inspections in all member states. the same should apply to mopeds from 2018. the mandatory inspections should also be extended to trailers weighing more than two tonnes and to caravan trailers weighing more than 750 kg. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission has presented new rules for vehicle roadworthiness testing which aim to improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is in line with the road safety objectives set out in the white paper roadmap for a single european transport area. the proposal is based on the establishment of common eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle inspection, with member states free to go further and introduce higher standards if they consider it appropriate. the european parliament, through its committee on transport and tourism, examined the proportionality of the proposed measures to the objectives pursued. the impact of the proposed measures on citizens should be carefully assessed in order to avoid an unnecessary financial and administrative burden. i agree with the balance that the european parliament wants to strike between improving road safety and avoiding an unnecessary financial and administrative burden, and i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − directive 2009/40/ec lays down minimum standards for the routine roadworthiness test of light vehicles, vehicles for the public transport of passengers and heavy goods vehicles and their trailers. however, it does not set them for scooters and motorcycles, a category which represents a higher risk group of users. in order to enhance road safety and considering that the scope of inspection of motor vehicles should be extended to achieve the same safety on public roads, the commission has presented this proposal for a regulation which, among other improvements, introduces mandatory inspections for scooters and motorcycles as well as more frequent inspections for certain categories of vehicles and repeals that directive.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. several exceptions were made for certain categories of vehicles and also according to the kilometres travelled, in particular for two- and three-wheel vehicles. from 2016, motorcycles should be subject to periodic and mandatory inspections, and mopeds in 2018. however, if the european commission considers that these measures are ineffective in reducing accidents involving motorcycles and mopeds, they may be amended and withdrawn.
in writing. - a car park that is inspected and controlled is an essential aspect of road safety. this proposal for a regulation lays down minimum standards and criteria in this field. the main elements of the commission's proposal are to introduce mandatory technical inspections for scooters and motorcycles, as well as light trailers of less than 3.5 tonnes, which were previously left to the member states, into european legislation. the commission also intends to change the frequency of technical inspections by proposing that for vehicles over six years old, the minimum frequency of inspections should be increased from two years to at least one inspection per year, i.e. the application of the 4-2-1 year formula depending on the age of the vehicle, which parliament does not agree with, and so it goes back to the 4-2-2 formula, thus weakening the initial proposal, which is why our group did not agree. some of the shortcomings in the report justified our abstention.
in writing. - i approve this report, firstly because i welcome the many suggestions made by the shadow rapporteurs and by my colleagues in the european parliament. in order to keep the decision-making process as transparent as the water we wish to have. furthermore, in view of the fact that individual meetings have been held with summit organisations such as cefic, vci, wko and with representatives of national delegations, as well as meetings with the danish and cypriot presidencies of the council, i am in favour of the proposals contained in the report.
in writing. − water pollution is one of the main environmental concerns expressed by eu citizens, which is why legislation must provide for appropriate means to maintain water quality and prevent water contamination. the proposal we are now voting on amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive in order to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy as required by the water framework directive. given the technical nature of the proposal, i support the position of the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. - report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 2000/60/ec and 2008/105/ec as regards priority substances in the field of water policy the report by mr seeber deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directives 2000/60/ec and 2008/105/ec as regards priority substances in the field of water policy. this proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive by updating the list of priority substances in the field of water policy as required by the framework directive every four years. measures adopted in the context of the water framework directive aim at the progressive reduction of emissions of priority substances into the aquatic environment or, in the case of priority hazardous substances, their cessation or phasing out. water pollution is one of the main environmental concerns expressed by eu citizens. in their resolution of 3 july 2012 on the implementation of eu water legislation, 68% of europeans consider water quantity and quality problems to be serious. so, in addition to prevention through informed and sensitized public opinion, we must promote the necessary policies to combat water pollution.
in writing. − the adoption of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution is an important aspect of water resource management and quality assurance. the environment committee of the european parliament voted a set of amendments which included new provisions in the european commission's proposal, making it more demanding, in particular with regard to the creation of a watch list for the monitoring of substances for which there is concern about their impact on public health and the environment. in addition, three pharmaceutical substances of concern for their persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity were included in the priority list. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. the final proposal was thus weakened. we cannot but stress the need to ensure that the conditions for effective monitoring and intervention by the competent public bodies in defence of water quality are met, particularly in terms of the material and financial resources allocated to these bodies, which is increasingly being called into question. we reiterate our disagreements on the water framework directive and the need for further consideration of the problems associated with polluting sources.
in writing. − the adoption of this report updates the list of substances which pose a risk to the aquatic environment, with a view to ensuring better water quality. the proposal, already agreed with national governments, adds 12 new products to the list of pollutants controlled in eu waters and creates a new watch list, which includes three pharmaceutical substances. this proposal adds 12 chemicals to the list of 33 priority pollutants that are controlled in eu surface waters such as lakes and rivers. this proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive by updating the list of priority substances in the field of water policy as required by the framework directive at least every four years. the water framework directive identifies a list of priority substances, including chemicals that pose a significant risk to the aquatic environment in the eu. measures adopted in the context of the water framework directive aim at the progressive reduction of emissions of priority substances into the aquatic environment or, in the case of priority hazardous substances, their cessation or phasing out.
in writing. − chemical pollution is among the causes of the increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the quality and availability of clean drinking water for our society, so that the adoption of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution is a central aspect of the sustainable management of water resources. i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the commission's proposal and proposes some amendments to make the water framework directive clearer and more effective in order to ensure the good status of surface water in the union and to facilitate its application in the member states. the main changes to the proposal are: (a) introduction of new priority substances; (b) a cost-effective timetable and implementation; (c) introduction of a list of widely used substances with persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic characteristics; (d) introduction of a list of substances under surveillance; and (e) public awareness that measures to combat water pollution should not be seen as costly impositions from brussels but measures in the collective interest of citizens.
in writing. − the water framework directive, adopted in 2005, sets a target for the sustainability of water resources in terms of good ecological, chemical and quantitative status to be achieved by european water bodies by 2015. as required by this directive, the list of priority substances should be updated every four years. the commission proposal adds 15 chemicals to the list of 33 pollutants monitored and controlled in eu surface waters, including industrial chemicals, biocides, plant protection products and, for the first time, three substances of pharmaceutical relevance. the substances have been selected on the basis of scientific evidence that they may pose a significant risk. the rapporteur considers that the inclusion of three substances of pharmaceutical relevance in the list is problematic, given the overriding importance of considerations relating to human health: water policy should not directly determine the health policy of the member states. in view of the above, i support the report which seeks to adopt appropriate measures to control chemical pollution in the aquatic environment.
in writing. − chemical pollution is among the causes of increasing pressure on the aquatic environment and on the quality and availability of clean drinking water for our society, so that the adoption of appropriate measures to control chemical pollution becomes a central aspect of the sustainable management of water resources. the proposal adds other chemicals to the list of 33 pollutants monitored and controlled in eu surface waters, including industrial chemicals, biocides and plant protection products. the rapporteur welcomes the provisions in the proposal which allow member states to reduce the monitoring efforts of substances with persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic characteristics. in this respect, the document has received my vote in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament's environment committee voted a set of amendments which included new provisions in the european commission's proposal, making it more demanding, notably with regard to the creation of a watch list for the monitoring of substances of concern for public health and the environment. in addition, three pharmaceutical substances of concern for persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity were included in the list of priority substances. we reiterate our disagreements on the water framework directive and the need for further consideration of the problems associated with sources of pollution.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that, in my view, the commission proposal amends provisions on certain state aid rules and, what is more important for the tran committee, amends regulation 1370/2007 on public service obligations for rail and road transport. i am particularly concerned about the procedure chosen by the commission to amend regulation 1370/2007 by means of this so-called council regulation authorising state aid. in addition, the european commission, in framing the proposal for a regulation on enabling legislation in this way, has clearly disregarded parliament's legislative prerogatives. any amendment of regulation 1370/2007 that the commission wished to obtain should have been proposed only through the ordinary legislative procedure. consequently, all the amendments submitted aim to remove all references to regulation 1370/2007 from the commission proposal.
in writing. − this report broadly supports the commission's proposal to strengthen and simplify the state aid procedure in various sectors of the member states' economy. parliament recommended that the commission maintain an appropriate balance between the sectors and specific cases which may be covered by the state aid procedure and the exemption procedure, in order to ensure at all times the cohesion and prosperity of the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's external borders. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament with a more relevant role in this area (taking into account future treaty amendments) and to submit biannual reports to the european parliament on this matter with a cost-benefit assessment of block exemptions granted under this regulation as well as an assessment of its contribution to all flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy and the horizon 2020 innovation programme. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a balance between concentrating efforts to enforce the rules in cases with a significant impact on the internal market, by exempting certain specific categories of aid from the notification obligation, and at the same time preventing the exclusion of too many services from the control of horizontal state aid and public passenger transport services by rail and road.
in writing. the commission proposal we are voting on amends provisions on certain rules on state aid and public service obligations in rail and road transport. it follows the state aid modernisation communication, which aims to facilitate the simplification of procedures and to provide for more block exemptions from notification obligations. in this respect, it seeks to cover state aid in the sectors of culture and heritage conservation; response to and prevention of natural disasters; forestry and promotion of certain food products; innovation; conservation of marine biological resources; amateur sports and certain broadband infrastructure.
in writing. - the report we have just voted on, by mr herbert dorfmann, concerns the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the treaty establishing the european community to certain categories of horizontal state aid and regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 october 2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and by road. i voted in favour of this report, which simplifies and strengthens the procedure for granting state aid to various sectors of the member states' economy. such aid must be granted in full transparency and in such a way as not to impair free competition. the allocation of this money should be concentrated on the outermost regions and those whose per capita gdp is well below the european average. i welcome the strengthening of the role of the european parliament as a co-legislating institution and support the inclusion of the amendments proposed by the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. − the so-called de minimis aid highlights the problem of budgetary availability in each member state, creating large differences and inequalities between countries and between companies in each country, in various sectors of economic activity. to these inequalities must be added the different aids from the eu itself, as is the case with the payments under the common agricultural policy. despite our outspoken opposition to the limitations imposed by the eu on the granting of state aid by each member state, we support the exclusion of some activities and sectors proposed by the commission, even if the eu information remains scarce and uncritical, contrary to what has already happened in other situations, in particular in the dissemination of aid per active worker or per capita. we regret that the commission's proposal to exclude the transport sectors in the outermost regions from the scope of the state aid scheme and thus allow them to receive de minimis aid, which could help to improve the situation of the transport sector and the prices charged in the regions of madeira and the azores, has been deleted, a possibility which the final version of the report jeopardises.
in writing. − this proposal is a key element of the modernisation of state aid policy, which sets out an ambitious programme of state aid reforms. it will help to achieve the union's overall objectives, in particular the objective of focusing state aid control on cases with the greatest impact on the internal market and the europe 2020 strategy to promote growth in a stronger, more dynamic and competitive internal market. in order to achieve the objectives of this strategy, it is intended to increase the number of categories of aid that may be exempted from the notification requirement, thereby reducing red tape and reducing the number of aid measures to be notified. the categories concerned and the block exemptions provided for would lay down the conditions of compatibility applicable to the types of aid which effectively contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the treaty to certain categories of horizontal state aid and the regulation on public passenger transport services by rail and road, which expressly provides that in future cases these matters of major importance to the member states should be the subject of the ordinary legislative procedure and not merely a consultation procedure.
in writing. − this report broadly supports the commission's proposal to strengthen and simplify the state aid procedure in various sectors of the member states' economy. parliament recommended that the commission maintain an appropriate balance between the sectors and specific cases which may be covered by the state aid procedure and the exemption procedure, in order to ensure at all times the cohesion and prosperity of the internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's external borders. the commission should also be able to provide the european parliament with a more relevant role in this area (taking into account future treaty amendments) and to submit biannual reports to the european parliament on this matter, with a cost-benefit assessment of block exemptions granted under this regulation as well as an assessment of its contribution to all flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy and the horizon 2020 innovation programme. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in december 2012, the european commission put forward a proposal for a regulation authorising the commission to declare, by means of regulations, that certain categories of state aid are compatible with the common market and exempt from the notification requirement of article 108 (3) tfeu. these are de minimis aid and aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development, environmental protection and employment and training. it should be noted that the map approved by the commission for each member state for the granting of regional aid must be respected. i support the report in question because i believe that the commission must strike the right balance between concentrating its efforts to comply with the rules in cases with a significant impact on the internal market, in particular by exempting certain specific categories of aid from the notification obligation, and on the other hand preventing too many services from being excluded from the control of state aid.
in writing. - without any control or limitation, de minimis aid highlights the problem of budgetary availability in each member state, and thus creates large differences between countries and between msmes. in addition to this, there are various forms of aid from the eu itself, such as the cap rpu, which is maintained after the reform. despite our outspoken opposition to the limitations imposed by the eu on the granting of state aid by each member state, we support the exclusion of certain activities and sectors proposed by the commission, even if the eu information remains scarce and uncritical, contrary to what has already happened in other situations, in particular in the knowledge of aid per active worker, or per capita. we regret the proposal of the majority of the ep to delete the commission's proposal to exclude state aid to the inhabitants of peripheral regions in the field of transport from the sectors eligible for de minimis aid, which could help to improve the situation of the transport sector and the prices charged in the regions of madeira and the azores.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the blue growth initiative, because it contains proposals which will make it possible to meet the challenges of ensuring sustainable development in the marine sector, maritime transport and tourism, contributing to the protection of the marine environment and the fight against climate change, as well as to the promotion of growth and employment.
in writing. - blue growth is essential for the european union, particularly for coastal countries. it is imperative to recognise that on the one hand there are untapped resources and on the other hand the way some are exploited today puts at risk environmental sustainability and the survival of local and regional economies most directly linked to these sectors. in the face of the current crisis, creative and environmentally responsible ways of enhancing the possible economic return from the sensible and reasonable exploitation of activities in the sea-related sectors are welcome. i hope that the european union will help to ensure that this is the case and will not hinder the work of those who are trying to overcome the crisis on the ground, or more precisely at sea.
in writing. − the european commission presented a communication on 13 september 2012 entitled 'blue growth: opportunities for sustainable marine and maritime growth'. europe is the first maritime area in the world whose sustainability should be at the heart of our concerns. this is a sector that employs 5.4 million people and represents an added value of €500 billion for the european economy. the europe 2020 strategy is making a strong commitment to this sector, setting the following targets: 7 million jobs and €600 billion in value added. in fact, there are many areas with great potential for growth, such as: maritime, coastal and cruise tourism; blue biotechnology; marine mineral resources; aquaculture; blue energy, etc. because this is a sector with great potential for growth and leverage for the european economy, i voted in favour of the report by spyros danellis on blue growth - improving sustainable growth in the european union's maritime sector, maritime transport and tourism, and i hope that by 2020 the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy will be achieved.
in writing. − the sustainable use of the immense resource of the sea must undoubtedly be an integral part of a national project for endogenous development. the european union could and should support these projects, particularly through its budget. but that is not the predominant meaning of this report. the report addresses important and positive aspects such as, among others, maritime and coastal spatial planning that takes account of local specificities and needs, the importance of and support for seabed mapping, the need to improve working conditions for seafarers and the safeguarding of europe's environmental and wildlife heritage. but the prevailing sense is not positive. what is being advocated is further progress in the private appropriation of nature, the commodification of its resources, the liberalisation of the shipping sector and the usurpation of new spheres of national sovereignty. free zones in island areas, a european maritime transport area, motorways of the sea, the creation of a european coastguard are some of the proposals we consider unacceptable.
in writing. the economic crisis and the urgent need for economic development and job creation require a new policy approach to the maritime economy. the blue growth initiative contains proposals for sectors of the future, through a realistic and coherent framework, which opens up prospects for broad synergies between economic sectors active not only in the coastal regions of the union but also throughout its territory. there is ample scope for innovation and sustainable development in the maritime and coastal sectors, provided the appropriate institutional framework is in place. this is where the blue growth initiative needs to evolve.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report because i consider it essential that the european union and the member states adopt blue growth as a strategic vector of growth and competitiveness vis-à-vis their partners. as described in this report, the outermost regions have enormous potential in this sector, as a result of their natural characteristics. these regions are key locations for experimentation and exploration in the areas of marine energy, offshore aquaculture, blue biotechnology, mining and as connecting points between europe and the world. member states should now establish a roadmap and use the available funding from the 2014-2020 programming period for the effective implementation of this proposal and the respective macro-regional strategies, in particular the atlantic strategy action plan. the regions must be made aware of the need to make a clear commitment to smart, inclusive and sustainable blue economy projects.
in writing. - the european union could and should, in particular through its budget, support projects for the exploitation of marine resources by the member states, but the predominant thrust of this report is different. the report addresses important and positive aspects such as: maritime and coastal spatial planning taking into account local specificities and needs; the importance and support of seabed mapping; the need to improve working conditions for seafarers; the safeguarding of europe's environmental and wildlife heritage. but the prevailing sense is not positive. what is being advocated is further progress in the private appropriation of nature, the commodification of its resources, the liberalisation of the shipping sector and the usurpation of new spheres of national sovereignty.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing that the cooperative model is appropriate and shows potential to generate the much-needed sustainable local responses in the hard-hit economic, social and environmental fields. i think this is a model that is clearly opposed to the ones that have led us to this crisis, which are solely focused on the pursuit of high, short-term profits, in the service of very few. cooperatives do not move, they serve the people in their regions, and they are a great form of business formation. in the current recessionary context of unemployment, insolvency and bankruptcy, a practical and ambitious push must be made to strengthen their role as a good tool for jobseekers and a good alternative for workers trying to ensure the continuity of their companies in the closure processes. we must improve its context and make it known at european level in an ambitious way so that everyone can find in it a valuable way of organising and financing their activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that cooperatives, by combining profitability and solidarity, can play an essential role in the european economy and in job creation. cooperatives can contribute more effectively to strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and solidarity and to a type of economy with democratic values that puts people first.
in writing. − at a time like the present, which calls for mutual help and the ability to take advantage of scarce resources, cooperatives and other areas of the social economy emerge as an example of resistance and an option to be taken into account. citizens of european countries with a less cooperative tradition should consider exploring this option more deeply. i believe that, without replacing traditional enterprises, cooperatives promote closeness and solidarity between members, by promoting a better use of the resources at their disposal and a distribution of the proceeds not based solely on the criterion of profit. i believe that the european union and the member states would have much to gain if they looked at cooperatives more closely and provided themselves with the human and technical resources to enable them to monitor their activities.
in writing. − in a time of economic crisis, when growth is a mirage, cooperatives, like social enterprises, are one of the few pillars supporting the economy in many member states. every day we see companies going bankrupt or insolvent. some are able to continue their activity by becoming cooperatives, as they are better able to withstand the crisis and often even create more jobs. cooperatives, because they put people first - at the expense of profit - should be supported and subject to a legal framework that facilitates their tasks. it should be remembered that there are more than 150 000 cooperatives in the european union, involving human resources and employing an estimated 5 million people. because i understand that cooperatives play a real social role, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mrs patrizia toia on the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis, and i urge the european institutions to continue to support and stimulate these social enterprises.
in writing. - according to the commission, cooperatives are enterprises which exist to serve the needs of their members, who contribute to their own capital. some cooperatives hold substantial market shares in important sectors in most member states, such as agriculture, forestry, banking, pharmaceutical and healthcare, information technology, housing and craft production. the rapporteur supports the creation and development of cooperatives, noting that many of them have proved more resilient in times of crisis than many conventional companies, for example in terms of employment rates. cooperatives play an important role in terms of savings, economic activities, locations and jobs. the guarantee of access to finance is defended. the report is generally positive, although there are some (generic) negative references to the single market and the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − cooperatives, together with other social economy enterprises, play a key role in the european economy, particularly in times of crisis, combining profitability and solidarity, creating high-quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and generating social capital. therefore, social economy enterprises should benefit from a clearer and more coherent legislative framework, taking into account the rich diversity of social economy institutions and their specific characteristics. the growing importance of cooperatives in the economy means that they are already responsible, on average, for about 5% of the gdp of the member states. we must look at these types of companies from a different perspective and continue to support them so that, if possible, they can increase their importance in the eu economy.
in writing. − this report is of added importance as cooperatives, together with other social economy enterprises, play a key role in the european economy, particularly in times of crisis, combining profitability and solidarity, creating high-quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and generating social capital. i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a number of measures to support the creation of new cooperatives. i would stress the idea of developing services for the start-up of these new cooperatives and of promoting the cooperative model among potential new entrepreneurs (i.e. in university programmes), both at national and european level.
in writing. − cooperatives or social economy enterprises have shown greater resilience in times of crisis than many traditional enterprises. although not immune to failure, this model of cooperative governance, based on joint ownership and democratic economic participation, has enabled exceptional results in terms of growth, survival rates and job creation. the committee on industry, research and energy, in view of the performance of cooperatives and the growing importance of this business model in the economic and social fabric of the member states, calls for the creation of a clearer and more coherent legislative framework in favour of cooperatives, stressing the need for capitalisation of cooperatives by means of ad hoc financial instruments at the level of the european union. in order to enhance the contribution of cooperatives to overcoming the crisis, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − cooperatives, together with other social economy enterprises, play a key role in the european economy, particularly in times of crisis, combining profitability and solidarity, creating high-quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and generating social capital. cooperatives should therefore benefit from a clearer and more coherent legislative framework and be fully included in the objectives and actions of the eu industrial policy, also taking into account their key contribution to industrial restructuring, an essential part of the new eu industrial policy. i also believe that collaborative networks between smes, such as those already existing in the eu in the form of cooperatives, should be encouraged, as these networks strengthen the creation and sustainability of micro and small enterprises, helping them to be a source of innovation. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - we are generally in favour of this report. however, there is a whole framework in the report which we disagree with. the inclusion of cooperatives in the single market - which is based on the logic of competitiveness and the colonization of the weakest economies by the strongest - is diametrically opposed to the principles governing cooperatives. it would also be important to clarify that in the process of transforming a company in insolvency into a cooperative, it is not the employees who inherit the debts that were not created by them, but by the private managers. the stimulus to cooperatives must be part of the strategy for the growth of economies, but it can never be used to transfer the debts and all the associated problems from the employers to the workers.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in the next forty years europe will have to face a number of social challenges. the continuing increase in the world's population, the sharp increase in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require europe to reflect on the new approach to be adopted in terms of production and consumption in order to respond to these new requirements in an effective and sustainable way. the bio-economy thus presents a great opportunity to address these challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, greater sustainability of the production cycle and the diffusion of industrial innovation along the entire value chain. the bio-economy strategy can be the solution to fossil fuel dependency and the way forward towards smart growth. looking further ahead, it could also be the answer to food security, economic growth and rising employment levels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a bio-economy for europe, taking into account the potential of more environmentally sustainable economic development to promote job creation, efficient use of resources and the sustainability and innovation of production systems and consumption patterns.
in writing. - as the rapporteur points out, the future of europe is fraught with challenges and it cannot but question the economic and consumption model we have seen trolled. the focus on the bioeconomy could contribute to a significant change in the union's external dependencies and to enhance the use and reuse of the resources we have at our disposal internally. a greener economy will not necessarily mean that it is less efficient or more expensive, and extreme or maximalist solutions that conflict with the actual survival of european economic activities need to be avoided. to improve the performance of an economy with these qualities, it is necessary to focus on innovation and on finding ways of making it better and more profitable. without this, the union will not be able to compete adequately with its competitors on a global scale.
in writing. - report on innovation for sustainable growth: the bioeconomy for europe the report by colleague paolo bartolozzi is on innovation for sustainable growth: a bio-economy for europe. the continuing increase in the world's population, the sharp increase in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require the union to reflect on the new approach to be taken in terms of production and consumption in order to respond to these new requirements in an effective and sustainable way. the strategy for the bioeconomy can be the solution to dependence on fossil fuels and the path to smart growth. this is a great opportunity to support rural development, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to make the production cycle more sustainable and to spread industrial innovation throughout the value chain. i also believe that further progress in this direction should be encouraged by creating new models of production, consumption and development and more sustainable and effective lifestyles. the link between the economy, the environment and the social is the formula for the process of growth and reindustrialisation in europe.
in writing. - this report advocates a radical change in the eu's approach to the production, consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources, a concern which we share. it advocates the need for research into assessing the limits of the sustainability of bio-resources, taking into account the functions of ecosystems and natural food chains as well as the human demand for food, a concern which we also share. it stresses the importance of applying the precautionary principle in the use of biotechnology, a concern which we also share. however, the report contains major contradictions, particularly in relation to biotechnologies, when it advocates faster eu authorisation procedures for biotechnological products and much faster market access. the majority of the european parliament is aware that part of the scientific data used for authorizations comes from the biotechnology monopolies that produce them and have every interest in making a profit on their investment. the majority of the european parliament is not unaware of, but rather supports, the cuts in public laboratories in many countries, particularly in portugal, which are aimed at increasingly subordinating scientific and technological research to the interests of the big monopolies and their profit motive. sustainable growth is mentioned, but there is no possible sustainability in the concept of capitalist growth.
in writing. - over the next 40 years, europe will have to face a number of social challenges. the growing world population, the continuing growth in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require europe to reflect on the new approach to be adopted in terms of production and consumption. only then can we provide effective and sustainable responses to these new demands. the bioeconomy offers a great opportunity to address these challenges by ensuring not only greater sustainability but also support for rural development, the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, greater sustainability of the production cycle and the diffusion of industrial innovation along the entire value chain. the right bioeconomy strategy can be the solution to fossil fuel dependency and the way forward towards smart growth. looking further ahead, it could also be the answer to food security, economic growth and rising employment levels. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the continuing increase in the world's population, the sharp increase in demand for food and energy and the scarcity of natural resources worldwide require europe to reflect on the new approach to be adopted in terms of production and consumption in order to respond to these new requirements in an effective and sustainable way. i voted in favour of this report which sets out measures to create new models of production, consumption and development and more sustainable and efficient lifestyles, thanks to a new synthesis between economy, environment and social quality, and points out measures which can reactivate the process of growth and reindustrialisation in europe.
in writing. − the use of biotic resources within the limits of ecosystem renewal defines the sustainability advocated in the new models of the smart bio-economy. the bioeconomy allows for the production of industrial and consumer raw materials at lower costs, using less energy and generating less environmental pollution, which in turn strengthens the competitiveness of industries and increases economic growth and employment levels. in this context, support for the sector represents an investment in the future, support that encourages the creation of a clear and stable regulatory framework capable of ensuring the harmonisation of policies that intervene in the bioeconomy sectors. in the light of the rapporteur's comments, i supported the report's call for greater progress in encouraging the development of sustainable lifestyles in order to meet the demographic and climate requirements of the new century.
in writing. the european commission has published a position paper entitled 'innovation for sustainable growth: a bio-economy for europe' which aims to leverage bio-economy activities for economic growth and job creation at european level. i would point out that the bioeconomy already employs 22 million people, representing 9% of total employment in the european union, and has great potential to employ more people. the bioeconomy offers a great opportunity to address some of the challenges facing europe, helping not only to boost economic activity but also to enhance the development of new products with greater added value for citizens. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that we need to move towards a smart, sustainable and inclusive bioeconomy in line with the europe 2020 strategy, supporting innovation and investment in new techniques and business models.
in writing. − this report advocates a radical change in the eu's approach to the production, consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources a concern we share. it advocates the need for research into assessing the limits of sustainability of biotic resources, taking into account the functions of ecosystems and natural food chains, as well as the human demand for food - a concern we share. it stresses the importance of applying the precautionary principle in the use of biotechnology - a concern which we also share. however, the report contains major contradictions, particularly in relation to biotechnologies, when it advocates faster eu authorisation procedures for biotechnological products and much faster market access. the majority of the european parliament is aware that part of the scientific data used for authorizations comes from the biotechnology monopolies which produce them and have every interest in making a profit on their investment and therefore supports this concept, which we reject.
rapporteur. − mr president, as i know that hungarian citizens usually listen to these debates, i will start with some words in hungarian. az unió az emberi méltóság tiszteletben tartása, a szabadság, a demokrácia, az egyenlőség, a jogállamiság, valamint az emberi jogok – ideértve a kisebbségekhez tartozó személyek jogait – tiszteletben tartásának értékein alapul. these words are the words in article 2 of our treaty on european union. the union is founded upon the values of respect for human dignity, the rule of law, democracy, liberty, equality, fundamental rights, and the rights of people coming from minorities. these words are not a bureaucratic invention; these words are not an imposition; they are the choice of our member states. hungary, in particular, not only signed these words, hungary wrote these words with other member states. so the question for our debate here today is: do we take these words seriously or not? in the european parliament we take them very seriously, we have done work for over a year examining over 500 changes to hungarian law by the government, that touch all the cornerstones of democracy – the parliament, the media, the judiciary, the electoral law, the supreme court, the constitutional court, the data protection authority; the constitution alone was changed twelve times, then a new constitution was made, then four changes to this constitution, in one year. not only the pace and the scope of the changes were unusual, but the general trend is one towards concentration of power with the majority and the government. many international institutions, including the eu and the council of europe, have expressed their concerns about this, of course. democracy is about the rule of the majority but democracy is not majoritarianism, meaning that in a democracy you have to respect the separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights. we have had a permanent dialogue with the government of hungary. we have updated the working documents that we have written with all the political groups, also with comments by the government of hungary, and this is also a dialogue that we want to continue after this report is approved. we reach a very important conclusion in this report: that the changes in hungary have been systemic, that they have a general trend and this general trend moves away from the values in article 2. this is a very serious conclusion and one that needs to be taken seriously by all institutions concerned: by us, by the european commission, which we ask to provide a rule of law mechanism and an article 2 alarm agenda to deal with this, and by the hungarian government, to whom we address 30 general recommendations for the future that of course they will follow with their own timetable objectives and in a dialogue, or let us say a trialogue, with the three institutions. we also ask for an article 2 trialogue with the european council or the council of the eu. furthermore, we acknowledge that as a political institution the european parliament should be compensated by a non-political body that we could turn to. this we call the copenhagen high-level group, in order to ensure the continuity of the copenhagen criteria. this means that we are very demanding in the requirements that we make of candidate countries, but we have to ensure that we apply the same standards to ourselves. let me make very clear what this is not about. europe is a diverse place. it has republics and monarchies, federal and unitary states, unicameral and bicameral parliaments. all this is possible, within compatibility with the values of democracy outlined in the treaties. we not only respect this diversity, we cherish this diversity; but what concerns us is whether these values are compatible, or whether these changes are compatible or not with our values. the european parliament has to be here to defend, to protect and to respect these values, because europe is not only a club of democracies; we are also a union of democracy.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr rui tavares, on his long and difficult work and the european commission, and in particular vice-president reding, on the clear exercise of her powers as guardian of the treaties. both underline a principle that i share: the european union is no longer just a free trade area, there are common values that result from the adoption of the european charter of fundamental rights and their integration into the treaties through the treaty of lisbon. the common values include the independence of the judiciary, the guarantee of democratic alternation, the protection of personal data, transparent regulation of electoral campaigns, respect for the dignity of persons and the protection of ethnic, linguistic, racial, sexual or any other minorities, including the homeless, and freedom of the media. i would have liked the rapporteur to have stressed more clearly that the hungarian government has backed down on several points. this is very important, not only because it acknowledges that wrong solutions have been adopted, which negates the conspiracy theory, but because it underlines how positive the intervention of the community institutions has been. we are doing well not only by pointing out problems but by helping to correct those situations. and we cannot accept two weights and two measures. when it comes to values, we must have the same approach to states, whether large or small, new or old democracies, candidates or members of the union, european or from other continents. the left in this parliament cannot consider that there are problems only in hungary and the right, which wants to reject this report, does not gain credibility to point the finger at other violations in other member states of the union. that is why, for the moment, i am giving the benefit of the doubt and will abstain in the final vote. i want to believe that the common values will be reinforced and respected. that is the only way to be a union and not just a market. only then are we citizens and not just consumers. only by protecting common values do we have moral authority.
the rapporteur. - personally, i come from a small country and from a generation that was shaken by the fall of the berlin wall. that small country lived under a dictatorship for many years. when i was moved by the fall of the berlin wall, i was also moved by the lesson that the hungarians taught us to open the border and open the border not only to themselves but to the other peoples of the rest of europe. what this lesson means for my generation and for all europeans is that we will never again abandon each other, that we will defend the fundamental rights of some as if they were the fundamental rights of all. portugal lived for forty-eight years under a dictatorship, abandoned by europe. in 1956, while i was doing research for this report, i saw that the hungarians said, "we are dying for ourselves and for europe". the hungarians knew they were fighting for all of europe. europe has failed many times in the past and we always remember the end dates: 14, 39. what we have forgotten is that europe has failed every day when its institutions have not lived up to their responsibilities, and this is what i believe the lesson of today and tomorrow's vote is the lesson we must learn. we must live up to our responsibilities to our citizens every day. let me just focus on two or three very quick points. one: there are many allegations of factual errors in the report, none of which were presented. i am glad of that, i see that these are more political than factual allegations. secondly, parliament does not want new powers with this report, it is giving the commission the task of steering this process, as it should. thirdly, it is true that parliament has imperfections. one of them could be political retaliation between groups here, another could be a gentleman's agreement ("if you don't talk about my country, i won't talk about yours"). that's why we say in the report: "we are going to have a venice commission of the european union itself. let us call it a copenhagen commission, let us move towards a time when the european union can have technical advice or technical support that is completely non-political and neutral, also to collaborate with our institutions. finally, i would like to thank the hungarian citizens who agree or disagree with this report. many have written, we have answered. the responses were absolutely excellent, even moving, of respect, of recognition and of responsibility. these are the three terms, i think, that we have to keep to. the recognition that there are problems, respect for the member state but above all responsibility for the citizens of that member state. we, who were not here before and will not be here after, have to fight for the rights of citizens as if they were our rights. as the great hungarian poet petöfi sándor said, 'without rights, there is no country'. if there are no rights, there is no home; if we build european rights, we are building our common european home.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament what we are seeing here - we had a debate on hungary, we have another on bulgaria - is the new crisis that the european union will face in the coming days. it's a fundamental rights crisis and it has the potential to be far more devastating than the economic crisis that came before it. we know that historically. we do have problems in hungary. we have had elections in bulgaria which are very doubtful in terms of their fairness and their freedom. we got a nomination for head of the secret service from a man who is a media mogul; that appointment was reversed, but it was a dangerous appointment. and we have, above all, the young bulgarians who, like every young european, want a country free of corruption, a country with the rule of law and a country where democratic rights, democratic values and fundamental rights prevail. we cannot, in fact, be in a situation where the institutions are or declare themselves powerless in the face of such a scenario. that is why the proposals we have on the table are to set up a copenhagen commission to ensure compatibility between the legislation and the union's values in article 2, to have the commission develop what is called an 'article 2 alert agenda', that is to say a mechanism for the rule of law which in fact goes within the member states because it is within the member states that the problems are and that the citizens have their problems. it is not to determine how the member states should act, but to defend in bulgaria, in hungary, in any country, the rights of european citizens who are all the same from one end to the other.
i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs podimata, on her work and i would say that finally, finally, after five years of crisis, we have the possibility of approving tomorrow the implementation of the financial transaction tax covering all financial products and all markets, albeit at a lower rate than the one i would support for some products. but it's the least we can do after five years of crisis. so much so that it has been taken away from those who work and retire and the financial markets and the speculative markets remain untouched, which is already beginning to be a huge insult to the citizens of europe. we have to take responsibility, we have to intervene in that direction. but i would like to say that, in addition to starting to try to correct - and i hope to do so definitively - this tendency of the european institutions to play the strong hand with the weak and the weak hand with the strong, we must also not let the exemption and the exception in relation to the pension fund pass by tomorrow. for a very simple reason, taxing pension funds as financial transactions has to do with protecting the pensions themselves, because we cannot allow pensioners' money to be gambled away in the casino. and that is what has happened, not infrequently, and therefore, contrary to what has been said, we cannot allow this exception because we are talking about speculative activity and not charitable activity.
we have long advocated a financial transaction tax. a tax which, together with other measures, will help to combat financial speculation and redirect the resources of speculative financial capital towards the fight against poverty, development and social progress. in theory, with a proposal for the creation of such a tax, we would be faced with a breakthrough. in practice, this proposal can be reduced to very little or almost nothing, or else we shall see. the restricted scope of this enhanced cooperation in terms of the number of countries, the leniency towards the most speculative financial products, the exceptions for other products, the mania of pension funds, the minimum rates now transformed into maximum rates, the absence of articulation with other essential measures such as the end of tax havens through which the large and illegal movement of capital will continue, finally, what seems to be that one wants to respond to very critical public opinions of the financial system by maintaining (interruption of the speech).
the banking sector needs to be a safe and efficient sector, as has already been said, and it needs to be a sector that serves society and not the other way around, because unfortunately in recent years we have seen that it is more society that serves the banking and financial sector than the other way around. and, having said that, we have also seen that the losses have been socialized, they have been shared by all, while the benefits have been concentrated in a very few. that is why the reform of the structure of the banking sector is absolutely urgent and necessary. i should like to say that i fully supported the proposal originally put forward by the rapporteur, i do not support the compromise reached and i give just one example of the reasons why i do not support that compromise: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the feeling i get is that we are halfway there and a reform of the banking structure requires clarity both of the activities and of the institutions. unfortunately, this is not the case, and with this decision halfway down the road, we run the risk of continuing to make decisions that are irrelevant to solving the crisis and the problems we face.
in writing. − i approve this report, having regard to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular the third paragraph of article 24 and article 228 thereof, and am in favour of the election of emily o'reilly to the post of european ombudsman from 1 october 2013 until the end of the current term of office, taking into account her more independent profile, as appropriate for the performance of these tasks.
in writing. - i shall abstain on this motion for a resolution. there is a clear budgetary shortfall. there was no progress on the fundamental issue of the eu's own resources. however, as the union is going through a difficult period and as there are important changes that have been achieved in the last negotiations (on the poverty fund, youth unemployment, etc.) which without approval have no legal basis to be implemented, my abstention shows that, in the name of these urgent needs for immediate action, we are not in a position to block these absolutely emerging needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the political agreement reached on 27 june 2013 between parliament, the council presidency and the commission on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020, because, although i consider that this budget is insufficient, many member states urgently need the structural funds to stimulate the economy and promote employment. the ep also succeeded in introducing, after lengthy negotiations, certain conditions to better protect the interests of citizens. the irish presidency has done all it can to achieve this agreement.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the irish presidency on the success achieved in the first half of 2013, notably in finalising important dossiers such as the single supervisory mechanism or the rules on bank capital requirements. particularly important, and therefore worthy of further emphasis, was the agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for 2014-2020. the agreement now reached, although not the ideal one, is a satisfactory agreement and will ensure the proper functioning of the european institutions and the union in the years to come. i would like to highlight two aspects that i consider positive, such as the new flexibility rules on commitments which should lead to additional appropriations for programmes linked to growth and jobs, in particular the youth employment initiative, as well as the advance to 2014-2015 of the appropriations for the youth employment initiative.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) in replacement of the proposals from the epp, s&d and alde political groups, concerns the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 reached under the irish presidency. first of all, i should like to congratulate the fact that on 27 june, after hard and intensive negotiations between this parliament, the council and the commission, it was possible to reach a political agreement on the next mff. the new provisions adopted will not only make it possible for the eu institutions to have a budget in good time, but also make it more flexible, more transparent and more appropriate to the resources available. the revision clause will allow the mff to be revised in the light of developments in the economic and financial situation of the member states in order to reflect the real needs of the member states in view of the urgent need for economic growth and job creation. i also welcome the advance payment for 2014-2015 of the appropriations for the youth employment initiative and the funding of the horizon 2020, erasmus and cosme programmes, ensuring the effectiveness of the programmes and promoting training and youth employment.
in writing. - the resolution welcomes the political agreement reached on the mff 2014-2020, i.e. a budget lower than the previous period (2007-2013) to cope with the worsening crisis. the hypocrisy of the majority of this parliament, particularly of the social democrats and their various national representatives (including the ps in portugal), is evident, who now accept what they had previously voiced and sworn to reject. in the face of an endless recession, reaching wartime levels, they welcome a shrinking budget, which is focused on implementing the eu 2020 strategy, deepening the single market, privatisation and liberalisation processes, major infrastructure projects that meet the needs of big capital and the big powers, and so on. they now welcome a budget that reduces the money allocated to economic and social cohesion, productive investment, maintenance and job creation. a budget far below the minimum necessary to have any positive impact and counteract the negative impacts of capitalist integration. the president of parliament (a socialist) gave his assent to this budget before it had even been discussed and decided by the members and after having rejected the same proposal from the council a few months ago.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the mff (multiannual financial framework 2014-2020) because the agreement provides for a reduction in amounts compared to the previous mff (2007-2013); because cohesion policies are under heavy attack; and because this is not the budget that the most vulnerable countries and people need to get out of recession. social programmes and those which could generate employment are strongly attacked. it is clearly a budget that perpetuates austerity. the youth employment guarantee has become a propaganda operation: the commission has already announced that it will be allocating eur 6 billion to this programme, but we all know that, apart from being clearly insufficient, half of this amount will be withdrawn from the european social fund.
in writing. − the negotiations on the mff for 2014-2020 are taking place in a very adverse social, economic and financial context, in which member states are making considerable efforts to adjust their national budgets with a view to the sustainability of public finances and the stability of the banking sector and the single currency. the eu budget is part of the solution that will enable europe to overcome the current crisis by promoting investment in growth and jobs, and by helping member states to tackle, collectively and in concert, the current structural challenges, namely the loss of competitiveness and the increase in unemployment and poverty. we should therefore welcome the adoption of the mff for 2014-2020 and thank the irish presidency for the commitment it has shown throughout the negotiation process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the balance sheet of the irish presidency, including the agreement on the multiannual financial framework, which i highlight as the determination that any solidarity mechanism within the eu must first and foremost be directed at those most in need. this resolution underlines the idea that the fight against poverty and social exclusion should be strengthened in budgetary terms in all relevant sectoral policies in order to ensure that the poverty objectives of the eu 2020 strategy are met.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the mff (multiannual financial framework 2014-2020) because the agreement provides for a reduction in amounts compared to the previous mff (2007-2013); because cohesion policies are under heavy attack; and because this is not the budget that the most vulnerable countries and people need to get out of recession. social programmes and those which could generate employment are strongly attacked. it is clearly a budget that perpetuates austerity. the youth employment guarantee has become a propaganda operation: the commission has already announced that it will be allocating eur 6 billion to this programme, but we all know that, apart from being clearly insufficient, half of this amount will be withdrawn from the european social fund.
in writing. − the irish presidency comes to an end with the conclusion of the agreement between the presidents of the three institutions parliament, council and commission on the proposal for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 (mff). as expected, the right wing and the social democrats in parliament have finally come to an agreement which represents a complete concession to the great powers who are leading the integration process. the significance of the european solidarity so widely espoused is once again clear. for the first time, the community budget is being reduced in absolute terms, even in the context of a new enlargement. at a time when inequalities and divergences between countries are increasing, cohesion funds are being cut. portugal will lose about 10% of eu funding compared to the current financial framework. it is unacceptable, but for many members of the right and social democrats it has become acceptable after they have spoken so much against this proposal.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that at international level the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. furthermore, since the aim of this proposal is to simplify and speed up the procedure for voting on unece regulations by the commission on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time needed for the adoption of these acts within the unece framework, it is in my view an important issue, since the eu vehicle typeapproval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which are replacing european union legislation. in addition, faster adoption of legislation allows for faster responses to regulatory requests from operators.
in writing. − by council decision 97/836/ec of 27 november 1997, the union acceded to the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted in accordance with these prescriptions. the participation of the union in the work of the unece helps to develop and strengthen international harmonisation of technical rules relating to vehicles, thereby contributing to facilitating international trade in motor vehicles. the aim is to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time needed for the adoption of acts within the unece framework. council decision 97/836/ec is also adapted to the decision-making procedures for agreements provided for in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − i welcome the council decision amending the council decision on the revised 1958 agreement in order to bring it into line with the provisions of the tfeu, and consider that the european parliament should give its consent. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is responsible for drawing up the harmonised requirements to eliminate technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles. this proposal aims to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thereby reducing the time needed for their adoption, and to make the procedures compatible with the provisions of the tfeu. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should approve this proposal.
in writing. - mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, gives us a recommendation on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 97/836/ec on the accession of the european community to the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted in accordance with these prescriptions (revised 1958 agreement). the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has introduced changes in the eu decision-making process as regards agreements between the union and international organisations. having regard to the opinion of the inta committee which proposes its adoption, i voted in favour of this draft recommendation, since the aim is to simplify and speed up the voting process for the regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), harmonising the legislation of the european union in order to eliminate any technical problems which may hinder the trade of the above vehicles, thus contributing to improving the safety of people and protecting the environment.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. by council decision 97/836/ec of november 1997, the eu acceded to the unece agreement concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions (revised 1958 agreement). that decision should be amended to reflect the changes introduced by the tfeu to the decision-making procedure to be followed for the definition of the eu position in voting on regulations to be adopted by the unece and in the conclusion of agreements between the eu and international organisations. the amendments are thus aimed at adapting to new provisions of the tfeu and, in this narrow context, may be justified.
in writing. - the adoption of this proposal will simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece (united nations economic commission for europe) regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time needed for the adoption of these acts within the unece. this is an important issue as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation (see regulation (ec) no 661/2009 on general vehicle safety). in addition, faster adoption of legislation allows for faster responses to regulatory requests from operators, thus facilitating international trade in motor vehicles.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the 1958 agreement and ensures that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. i voted in favour of this proposal, which is designed to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time needed for the adoption of these acts within the unece. this is an important issue, as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation. in addition, faster adoption of legislation allows for faster responses to regulatory requests from operators.
in writing. - this draft decision amends council decision 97/836/ec in order to reflect the changes introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the decisionmaking procedure to be followed for the definition of the union's position when voting on regulations on international harmonisation. such regulation concerns trade in motor vehicles, and refers in particular to standards ensuring a high level of road safety and environmental protection for vehicles traded. the proposal aims to simplify and shorten the voting procedure for regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and will avoid obstacles to international trade in motor vehicles. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report allows for the harmonisation of technical requirements for trade in motor vehicles between the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and the union relating to the 1958 agreement. it also allows the agreement to be brought into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. simplification and adoption of legislation will ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection worldwide. i am in favour of the adoption of this report.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. by council decision 97/836/ec of november 1997, the eu acceded to the unece agreement concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions (revised 1958 agreement). that decision should be amended to reflect the changes introduced by the tfeu to the decision-making process. we didn't object.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the draft council decision amending the council decision on the parallel agreement and considering that the european parliament should give its consent. my position is that the ultimate objective is that of the amendment, which provides that the union's positions with regard to technical regulations in the context of the parallel agreement are to be established under the procedure laid down in article 218 (9) tfeu and that the union's positions with regard to the proposals for amendments to the parallel agreement itself are to be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 218 (6) (a) tfeu.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. by council decision 2000/125/ec of 31 january 2000, the union acceded to the parallel agreement within the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe. that decision should therefore be amended in order to reflect the changes introduced by the tfeu to the decision-making procedure to be followed for the definition of the position of the european union in voting on regulations to be adopted by the unece and in the conclusion of agreements between the eu and international organisations. the proposal is in line with the objectives of the common commercial policy and in accordance with article 27 tfeu. the participation of the union in the work of unece helps to develop and strengthen international harmonisation of technical rules for motor vehicles, thereby contributing to facilitating international trade in motor vehicles. i therefore support this report.
in writing. with this decision, we are supporting our businesses and our automotive industry, for the benefit of all european consumers. i support this text because it will reduce technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles by allowing for faster and simpler adoption of the rules governing them.
in writing. − the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is responsible for drawing up the harmonised requirements to eliminate technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles. this proposal aims to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thereby reducing the time needed for their adoption, and to make the procedures compatible with the provisions of the tfeu. i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should approve this proposal.
in writing. - concern for the safety of people, drivers or pedestrians, is something we are very concerned about. the eu-wide type-approval of wheeled vehicles is based on the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) regulations which are replacing eu legislation. mr vital moreira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, gives us a recommendation on the draft council decision amending decision 200/125/ec of 31 january 2000 on the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted or be used on wheeled vehicles (parallel agreement). having regard to the opinion of the inta committee which proposes its adoption, i voted in favour of this draft recommendation as the aim is to simplify and speed up the voting process for unece regulations, harmonising european union legislation in order to eliminate any technical problems which may hinder the trade of the above vehicles, thus contributing to improving the safety of people and protecting the environment.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. the aim of this proposal is to simplify and speed up the voting procedure for unece regulations, taking into account that the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation. by council decision 2000/125/ec of january 2000 on the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles (parallel agreement), the eu acceded to the parallel agreement within the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). that decision should be amended to reflect the changes introduced by the tfeu to the decision-making process to be followed for the definition of the eu position in voting on regulations to be adopted by the unece and in the conclusion of agreements between the eu and international organisations. the proposed amendments are justified in this context.
in writing. - the adoption of this proposal will simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on the unece (united nations economic commission for europe) regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time needed for the adoption of these acts within the unece. this is an important issue as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation (see regulation (ec) no 661/2009 on general vehicle safety). in addition, faster adoption of legislation allows for faster responses to regulatory requests from operators, thus facilitating international trade in motor vehicles. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision amending decision 2000/125/ec of 31 january 2000 on the conclusion of the agreement concerning the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles (parallel agreement), which aims to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission to vote on behalf of the union on unece (united nations economic commission for europe) regulations.
in writing. − this draft decision amends council decision 2000/125/ec in order to reflect the changes introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the decisionmaking procedure to be followed for the definition of the union's position when voting on regulations on international harmonisation. such regulation concerns trade in motor vehicles, and refers in particular to standards ensuring a high level of road safety and environmental protection for vehicles traded. the proposal aims to simplify and shorten the voting procedure for regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) and will avoid obstacles to international trade in motor vehicles. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to harmonise and bring into line with the treaty of lisbon the parallel agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe on technical requirements for trade in motor vehicles, relating to the 1958 agreement. i am voting in favour of this report because it meets the requirements of the common commercial policy.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. the aim of this proposal is to simplify and speed up the voting procedure for unece regulations, taking into account that the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations, which are replacing eu legislation. by council decision 2000/125/ec of january 2000 on the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles (parallel agreement), the eu acceded to the parallel agreement within the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). that decision should be amended to reflect the changes introduced by the tfeu to the decision-making process. we didn't object.
in writing. - i abstain from this vote because i have drawn up an opinion (in the committee on agriculture and rural development) with proposals which differ from those contained in this regulation. farmers should be excluded and should have their own instrument adapted to globalisation. they should not be treated like any other industrial worker, given the effects of globalisation. the abstention, however, shows the recognition that in the present context this is a very necessary instrument for workers in difficulty and has even improved its rules.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns to help them reintegrate into the labour market. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 provides that 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the european commission (ec). the commission proposes to mobilise eur 750 000 to cover technical assistance costs to the ec. the objective is to finance monitoring, information and advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. the actions financed contribute to simplifying the application process and allow better access to relevant data, knowledge sharing and information via the egf website. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i agree with the measures proposed by the commission, which should be financed as technical assistance, and also because i believe that they will simplify the application process and allow better access to the relevant data. i support the proposed measures for the sharing of knowledge and information through the egf website and expert groups and networks which, combined with a better overall view of the functioning of the egf, should lead to a more efficient implementation of this fund in the future. i consider it necessary to maintain the level of the egf appropriations, both for commitments and for payments, at an annual amount of at least eur 500 000 000. the rapporteur also believes that, in accordance with the principle of budgetary unity, it is of the utmost importance to promote the integration of the egf into the budget for reasons of transparency and accountability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the measures proposed by the commission to be financed as technical assistance under article 8 (1) and (4) and article 9 (2) of the egf regulation. however, it is regrettable that the results of the final ex post evaluation of the egf arrive too late to feed the debate on the new egf regulation for 2014-2020, particularly as regards the effectiveness of the use of the crisis derogation criterion.
in writing. − as stated in the text of the resolution, the commission requested the mobilisation of the egf to cover technical assistance expenses, to follow up applications received and financed and proposed and implemented measures, to expand the website, to produce publications and audiovisual media, to create a knowledge base, to provide administrative and technical support to the member states and to prepare the final evaluation of the egf. i agree with this mobilization and i hope that on the one hand it will be increasingly easier in terms of access to information and more scarce, a sign that unemployment will have slowed down. i hope that the commission will make the best possible use of the amounts made available to it.
in writing. - this report deals with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and falls within point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (egf/2013/000 ta 2013 - technical assistance at the initiative of the commission). the egf, set up in 2006, aims to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. on 17 july 2008, a joint statement was made by the three institutions, the european parliament, the council and the commission, to ensure greater efficiency in mobilising egf funds, without prejudice to the interinstitutional agreement. because what is at stake is improving the support provided to workers in difficulty and avoiding the misuse of public money, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which extends the eligibility criteria to countries with a lower population density (setting the threshold of 200 workers) and to self-employed workers.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns to help them reintegrate into the labour market. so, a supposed quick fix to apply to the wounds of capitalist globalization. the interinstitutional agreement of may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 provides that 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise the amount of eur 750 000. we share the rapporteur's fair criticism of the delay in the results of the ex post evaluation of the egf. despite our critical stance on this instrument, its mobilisation rules and the role it is given, it is regrettable that the council has decided to block the extension of the crisis derogation, which allows for the provision of financial assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the current social, financial and economic crisis, and to increase the co-financing rate to 65% of the programme costs for applications submitted after the 31 december 2011 deadline.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the measures proposed by the commission, which should be financed as technical assistance, are important in simplifying the application process and allowing better access to the relevant data. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission adopted on 15 may 2013 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of eur 750 000 from the egf to cover technical assistance expenditure of the commission. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure. the commission justifies the transfer of this amount on the basis of the need to cover monitoring, information activities (maintenance of the egf website and translation into all official eu languages), creation of a knowledge base, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide additional support for workers affected by redundancies directly resulting from structural changes in world trade patterns. it is a temporary assistance designed to help redundant workers find and keep a new job. the commission is now asking parliament to approve the mobilisation of eur 750 000 to cover technical assistance costs such as monitoring, information, the creation of a knowledge base, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the amount to finance technical assistance which will simplify the application process and improve access to the relevant egf data.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request to mobilise the amount of eur 750 000 as it meets the annual maximum amount of the egf of 0.35% which can be made available annually for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. i believe that the european commission should step up support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns in order to help them reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide additional support for workers made redundant from their companies. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf up to an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. following repeated requests by parliament, the 2013 budget contains payment appropriations of eur 50 000 000 under the egf budget line (04 05 01). the rapporteur deeply regrets the council's decision to block the extension of the crisis derogation, which allows for the provision of financial assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the current social, financial and economic crisis, and to increase the co-financing rate to 65% of the programme costs for applications submitted after the deadline of 31 december 2011. it called on the council to reintroduce this measure swiftly, particularly in the context of the rapid worsening of the social situation in several member states following the expansion and deepening of the recession. we agree with this claim, although we believe that this fund will never solve the structural problems which cause the problem of unemployment.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by expressing my appreciation for the constructive cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament in preparing the reform of olaf. i would point out that new information has emerged following the successful conclusion of the trialogue meetings. i also regret that the committee on budgetary control did not have access to the report of the olaf supervisory committee, drawn up in accordance with article 11 of the olaf regulation, which was sent to parliament, the council and the commission on 29 january 2013 and which presumably contains comments on olaf's investigation procedures. finally, i would like to recall the concerns expressed at that meeting by the olaf supervisory committee regarding the agency's investigative activities, which are also summarised in annex 3 to the olaf supervisory committee's annual activity report for 2012.
in writing. - mr president, the revised regulations here on olaf, all of them on the necessary tools, are intended to be more effective in the attempt to combat fraud. all of this leads us to reflect on the reforms that are needed. i think that strengthening olaf is something that can be achieved, for better definition of the fight against fraud, protection of whistleblowers, and greater exchange of information between olaf and the member states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the proposal as amended by the council and the european parliament could help to strengthen the procedural rights of persons covered by olaf investigations and to increase the efficiency of investigations carried out by the office, as well as to improve cooperation with its partners.
in writing. - the attempt to improve olaf's legal framework and its investigative effectiveness is welcome. the european union must set an example in the transparency of its actions and in the effective capacity of its police and supervisory bodies to detect possible irregularities. i also welcome the concern to strengthen the fundamental rights and procedural guarantees of citizens.
in writing. - the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is going through a difficult phase with management and control problems affecting its supervisory offices, which are undermining its public image. since the fight against corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion is one of the objectives of the european union, it is essential that olaf presents itself to european taxpayers as a credible body that is above suspicion. this recommendation for second reading, drawn up by mrs ingeborg gräßle, concerns the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning investigations conducted by olaf and repealing regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 of the european parliament and of the council and council regulation (euratom) no 1074/1999. although the text adopted is not the ideal one, given the urgency of giving olaf a new lease of life after many years of inactivity, i hope that the new legal framework will come into force as early as next month, so i voted in favour of this recommendation and i urge the commission to move forward with the second phase, particularly with regard to the office of the prosecutor, so that we can complete the improvements now introduced.
in writing. − the amended commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 on investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) aims to strengthen the procedural rights of persons covered by olaf investigations and to increase the efficiency of investigations by the office, as well as to improve cooperation with its partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). the proposal also aims to clarify the role of the olaf supervisory committee and to organise an exchange of views with the institutions at political level in order to discuss olaf's political priorities. the report endorses the council's position at first reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it called for the right of the olaf supervisory committee to monitor and safeguard the rights of persons subject to administrative investigations to be respected. it is confirmed that some less clear contours persist throughout this process.
in writing. − this proposal on investigations by olaf aims to strengthen the procedural rights of persons covered by olaf investigations and to increase the efficiency of investigations by the office, as well as to improve cooperation with its partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). we were also able to clarify the role of the olaf supervisory committee and to organise an exchange of views with the institutions at political level in order to discuss olaf's political priorities. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the amended commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 on investigations by olaf aims to strengthen the procedural rights of persons concerned by olaf investigations and to increase the efficiency of olaf investigations, as well as to improve cooperation with its partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). the proposal also aims to clarify the role of the olaf supervisory committee and to organise an exchange of views with the institutions at political level in order to discuss olaf's political priorities. i agree with these assumptions and with parliament's position, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − after six years of intensive discussions and a year of trialogue meetings, the institutions were able last year to reach political agreement on a compromise text aimed at improving the legal framework of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). these improvements relate to the effectiveness of olaf investigations as well as to the protection of the procedural rights of persons covered by olaf investigations. the revised regulation gives olaf more effective tools to combat fraud through a legal framework governing olaf's operation and cooperation with third countries and international organisations. i voted in favour of the amendment because i believe that it strengthens the procedural guarantees and fundamental rights of persons subject to administrative inquiry.
in writing. − this report will strengthen olaf's legal framework by improving the efficiency of investigations and the protection of the fundamental rights of persons involved in investigations. as a result of this review, olaf is strengthening its anti-fraud capabilities in conducting investigations and when it needs to cooperate with third countries and international organisations. it also strengthens the involvement of the european parliament, which will report annually on its activities.
in writing. − the amended commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 on investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is expressly aimed at strengthening the procedural rights of persons covered by olaf investigations and increasing the efficiency of investigations by the office, as well as improving cooperation with its partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). the report endorses the council's position at first reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it called for the right of the olaf supervisory committee to monitor and safeguard the rights of persons subject to administrative investigations to be respected. statements that are, of course, troubling.
in writing. the proposal aims to define the european parliament's position on the directive coordinating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits). it aims to define remuneration and sanctions policies and the functions of depositaries of these assets. the european parliament's report focuses on two main issues: remuneration policy and performance rates. the remuneration policy specifies that the variable salary of fund managers shall not exceed their fixed salary and half of the variable salary shall be in assets of the funds they manage. the remuneration of fund managers should be adequately publicised. performance rates, in turn, should be linked to performance, i.e. higher pay should be linked to higher performance, but the opposite should be true for below-expected performance (lower rates). in this sense, and in agreement with the proposal in question, since it seeks to reduce the likelihood of overly risky management of the financial assets of the parties involved, i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in recent years, as the market has developed, several discrepancies have been detected in the way each collective investment undertaking (ucits) treats depositaries' obligations and liability, remuneration policy and sanctions policy in the financial services sector. a set of common principles and rules are now laid down to be observed, particularly in the field of prudence, rigour and sound and effective risk management, in the financial services sector. i therefore regard this review as a positive sign and as another step towards the creation of a single financial market.
in writing. the well-known madoff scandal, as well as other frauds associated with investment funds, have generated a wave of indignation and alerted to the frauds to which their investors and depositaries have often been and are associated. this proposal is intended to be the eu's response, ostensibly to improve investor confidence in open-ended investment funds by creating a new regime for depositaries, rules on remuneration for all those whose activities have a significant impact on the risk profiles of ucits and harmonisation of the sanctions regime applied by member states. in practice, this proposal is part of a set of measures decided at the level of the g20 and the g8 to try to harmonize the rules of competition in the major capitalist powers and to convince the people that it is possible to moralize financial speculation and the pursuit of maximum profit. the aim is to keep the flame of the financialization of the economy burning. efforts should be directed not at moralizing financial speculation - an impossible task - but rather at putting an end to it. the economy, that is to say, the activity aimed at satisfying human needs, has no need of financial speculation, and this constitutes a real threat to the people.
in writing. − in order to take account of the potentially harmful effect of inadequate remuneration systems on sound risk management and control of individual risk-taking strategies, management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) should be expressly required to establish and maintain, for the categories of staff whose professional activities have a significant impact on the risk profiles of the ucits they manage, remuneration policies and practices consistent with sound and effective risk management. only in this way can we avoid situations such as those which have occurred and which have given rise to the present economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − the european parliament's report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the directive coordinating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) draws attention to two key issues: remuneration policy and performance fees. the remuneration policy specifies that the variable salary of fund managers shall not exceed their fixed salary and half of the variable salary shall be in assets of the funds they manage. the remuneration of fund managers should be adequately publicised. performance rates, in turn, should be linked to performance, i.e. higher pay should be linked to higher performance, but the opposite should be true for below-expected performance (lower rates). i voted in favour of this report because i agree with these measures.
in writing. the proposal aims to define the european parliament's position on the directive coordinating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits). it aims to define remuneration and sanctions policies and the functions of depositaries of these assets. the european parliament's report focuses on two main issues: remuneration policy and performance rates. the remuneration policy specifies that the variable salary of fund managers shall not exceed their fixed salary and half of the variable salary shall be in assets of the funds they manage. the remuneration of fund managers should be adequately publicised. performance rates, in turn, should be linked to performance, i.e. higher pay should be linked to higher performance, but the opposite should be true for below-expected performance (lower rates). in this sense, and in agreement with the proposal in question, since it seeks to reduce the likelihood of overly risky management of the financial assets of the parties involved, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council should be amended to take account of market developments and the experience gained so far by market participants and supervisors, in particular to address discrepancies between national provisions with regard to the obligations and liability of depositaries, remuneration policy and penalties. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that greater harmonisation of remuneration systems is necessary to achieve better risk management and control of individual risk-taking strategies. in addition, management companies of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) should be expressly required to establish and maintain remuneration policies and practices consistent with sound and effective risk management.
in writing. the well-known madoff scandal and other frauds associated with investment funds have generated a wave of indignation and alerted investors and depositaries to the frauds that have often been associated with them. this proposal is intended to be the eu's response - purportedly to improve investor confidence in open-ended investment funds - by creating a new regime for depositaries, rules on remuneration for all those whose activities have a significant impact on the risk profiles of ucits and harmonisation of the sanctions regime applied by member states. this proposal is part of a set of measures decided at the level of the g20 and the g8 to try to harmonize the rules of competition in the major capitalist powers and to convince the people that it is possible to moralize financial speculation and the pursuit of maximum profit. the aim is to keep alive the flame of the financialization of the economy as the central form that capitalism has found to try to counter the inexorable downward trend of the rate of profit on capital. efforts should be directed not at moralizing financial speculation - an impossible task - but rather at putting an end to it. the economy does not need financial speculation, which is a real threat to the people.
mr president, i support the general measures for environmental protection and i am in favour of the carbon market. but in the present situation of european crisis, measures which, while aimed at the good, have harmful economic consequences must be carefully weighed. in this context, i would like to express my indignation at the fact that no exception has been made for the outermost regions, which can only be reached by air. with airfares rising, it is the principle of mobility that is compromised. the residents are already geographically distant, now they are further isolated by a political decision. but the fragile economy of the islands will also be greatly affected by the decline in tourism and the competitiveness of the fresh products we export, in an economic asphyxiation which is unfair and unacceptable. this error must be corrected, and i urge you to join me in the actions i am going to take to correct it.
in writing. − i voted in favour as it is essential that the ets is kept as the main market-based instrument to fight against climate change. i was persuaded by three important amendments: an amendment ensuring that intervention in the market is ‘a one-off’; a second amendment requiring an assessement to determine whether the measure would result in ‘carbon leakage’, i.e. businesses leaving the union to avoid the higher permit price; and a third amendment creating a fund to enhance industrial innovation and develop innovative low carbon technologies.
in writing. the european union has been at the forefront of the global fight against greenhouse gas emissions. i believe that it must persevere in this attitude and seek alternative and creative ways of strengthening its economy, without getting caught up in excessive prohibitionism which could unjustifiably affect businesses and jobs. what it must aim for is therefore a fair balance between the needs of environmental protection, economic revitalisation and job creation, supply and demand.
in writing. the report by mr matthias groote deals with the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions. the excess of co2 allowances, due to the economic slowdown and the fact that supply has been higher than demand, has led to a decline in the carbon price to levels never expected when the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) was created. this reduction in the carbon price is insufficient to drive sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation and has thus become a factor in reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies. i agree with this proposal, in that it aims to allow the commission to freeze or postpone part of the auctions for co2 emission allowances in order to increase the price of these allowances and to encourage the development of technologies to reduce emissions in the fight against climate change. this proposed short-term measure should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances, but rather as an option to ensure the stability of the eu ets until the necessary adoption of long-term structural measures.
in writing. - after its rejection in april, this report has been returned to the environment committee of the european parliament and is now back for a vote in plenary. the main changes were to reintroduce temporarily withheld allowances in the eu emission trading scheme (eu ets), after up to 600 million allowances were made available out of a maximum total of 900 million in a fund based on the eu funding mechanism (ner300). we reiterate that we are facing the consequences of the operation of a perverse and ineffective mechanism - the ets/carbon market. consequences we have always warned of. the problem is fundamental, it has to do with the emissions trading system itself, with its principles and (market) foundations, and no cosmetic operation, such as the one now attempted, can solve it entirely. we advocate replacing a market approach with a normative and regulatory approach, in a framework for reducing emissions that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation. in both the 2005-2007 and 2008-2012 periods, the ets did not reduce emissions. the decreases after 2008 are mainly due to the economic and social crisis.
in writing. - i again abstained from voting on this report. i think it would be prudent to find a solution that would appeal both to industry, which is now more in need in the face of the crisis we are going through, and to environmentalists and renewable energy advocates. i think that this proposal, as it is presented, takes greater account of the second position. hence my vote.
in writing. − the emissions trading system (ets) has created the first and largest carbon market and a carbon price at eu level. in this context, implementing powers have also been delegated to the commission with regard to the timing, administration and other aspects of the auction system. currently, due to the significant impact of unexpected macroeconomic developments, the carbon price has decreased considerably. as a consequence, the combination of increased supply with reduced demand led to decreased prices in the carbon market. in the light of these exceptional circumstances, parliament is invited to adopt a commission proposal to correct these imbalances between supply and demand of licences by adopting short-term measures to ensure the stability of marketing, until the necessary adoption of long-term structural measures.
in writing. − the eu emissions trading scheme is a key instrument for reducing eu industrial emissions cost-effectively. despite seeing emissions decline since its inception, the system is currently facing serious imbalances. the current economic crisis, combined with a significant influx of external credits from the clean development mechanism (cdm) for reducing emissions, as well as a number of regulatory provisions relating to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020) have led to a significant excess of allowances. that is why this report seeks to clarify the legal provisions on the timing of auctions for allowances and has therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - after its rejection in april, this report has been returned to the environment committee of the european parliament and is now back for a vote in plenary. the main changes were to reintroduce temporarily withheld allowances into the eu emission trading scheme (eu ets) after up to 600 million allowances were made available out of a maximum total of 900 million in a fund based on the eu funding mechanism (ner300). we reiterate that we are facing the consequences of the operation of a perverse and ineffective mechanism - the ets/carbon market. we advocate replacing a market approach with a normative and regulatory approach, in a framework for reducing emissions that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation.
in writing. - i approve this report. based on the rapid alert and response system for communicable diseases established in 1998, the commission proposal sets out measures to strengthen the european union's response capacity in preventing serious crossborder health threats and to equip it with means, networks and structures, complementary to those already available, to combat threats, by extending the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applied to communicable diseases to all health threats of biological, chemical or environmental origin, by strengthening the role of the health security committee with a view to better coordination of crisis management measures, by improving crisis management preparedness, by requiring each member state to draw up, consolidate and maintain updated national preparedness and response plans for crossborder health crises, by coordinating with the european commission and other member states and by recognising the possibility of taking joint action to combat a crisis situation, by accelerating the adoption of the necessary measures to combat the crisis and by coordinating with the european commission and the other member states the possibility of taking emergency measures to combat a crisis situation, by strengthening the role of the health security committee with a view to better coordination of current crisis management measures, by requiring each member state to draw up, consolidate and keep up to date its national plans for preparedness and response to health crises, in a coordinated manner, and by the european commission and by the other member states, the possibility of taking action necessary measures to combat a crisis.
in writing. − the european commission presented on 8 december 2011 a proposal for a decision providing the means and structures for an efficient protection of all european citizens against a wide range of cross-border health threats. the commission proposal aims to strengthen the eu's response capacity to prevent serious crossborder health threats and to provide it with means, networks and structures complementary to those available to it to combat the threats. the committee therefore advocates extending the scope of the directive to cover threats arising from the misuse of medicinal products and the placing on the market of implantable or defective medical devices. the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) outside the field of communicable diseases should be further defined and a regular dialogue between the european commission and the european parliament should be established in order to allow the european parliament to be adequately informed about the activities and the proper functioning of the rapid alert and response system. equally important is the ongoing cooperation between the european commission and the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am satisfied with the results of mr pargneaux's report. in times of crisis, we need central coordination and, above all, we need to improve communication and collaboration between member states. the prevention of critical situations such as avian influenza or e. coli bacteria is based on transparency between member states, their immediate capacity to react, individually or in groups, and on current cooperation between pre-crisis medical and veterinary units. when we talk about serious cross-border health threats, we should not forget the correlations between poverty and population health and the social and financial problems we face. poverty is one of the main drivers of malnutrition, as well as lack of access to adequate medical services and treatment. our immune systems are essential to deal with crises and epidemics, but priority must be given to the proper implementation of the proper nutrition and care plans for babies, children and their mothers. increase access to appropriate medicines for those suffering from noncommunicable diseases and minimise the number of people affected by the epidemic. and finally, let me congratulate the rapporteur on his work on this exceptional report.
in writing. − recent public health emergencies, such as the h1n1 influenza pandemic, the volcanic ash cloud or the e. coli outbreak, have reinforced the evidence that no country can tackle a cross-border public health crisis alone. these threats do not know national or geographical borders and may affect sectors other than health, such as civil protection, energy and transport. the existing surveillance and control network in the union currently only has specific mechanisms to ensure the monitoring of communicable diseases, to give warning and to coordinate the eu response in this area, and has no competence in relation to all other serious cross-border health threats. i therefore support this proposal for a decision which aims to establish a coherent framework by strengthening and rationalising the eu's capacities and structures so as to enable the union to respond effectively to such crises. it will allow the scope of the rapid alert and response system to be extended to all serious cross-border threats. it provides for enhanced cooperation on risk planning, preparedness and assessment. it also provides for a strengthening of the union's response capacity by providing the necessary resources, networks and structures to complement those already in place.
in writing. the report by mr gilles pargneaux deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on serious crossborder threats to health. the 2009 h1n1 pandemic, the 2010 volcanic ash cloud and the 2011 e. coli outbreak prompted the proposal for a decision providing the means and structures for the effective protection of all european citizens against a wide range of cross-border health threats. the commission proposal, based on the rapid alert and response system for communicable diseases established in 1998, sets out measures to strengthen the eu's response capacity to prevent serious crossborder health threats and to provide it with means, networks and structures complementary to those already in place to combat the threats. this proposal is important in that it seeks to ensure the coordination and efficiency of the response in the event of serious health threats. the importance of a coherent and coordinated crisis communication strategy is crucial in these types of situations as was evident in the e. coli/stec o104 crisis.
in writing. − the commission has put forward a proposal providing for means and structures for the effective protection of citizens across the eu against a wide range of crossborder health threats. this decision lays down the roles, duties and responsibilities of the main actors and structures at eu level, as well as the arrangements for cooperation and coordination between the various institutions. among other things, the report provides that member states may refer the threats concerned to the health security committee for a coordinated response. calls for the adoption of guidelines and other awareness-raising material on the health and hygiene measures to be followed by citizens in the event of serious cross-border health threats. these measures include information on good hygiene practices in healthcare settings, food establishments, schools and daycare centres, leisure facilities and also in the workplace, and should take into account current who recommendations. in view of the data storage involved in the cooperation and coordination processes, attention is drawn to the fact that the controllers should take appropriate measures to protect such personal data and to ensure respect for individual rights, freedoms and guarantees. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu's capacity to deal with serious crossborder health threats, such as those caused by the coronavirus, e. coli in 2011 and h1n1 influenza in 2009, will be strengthened by the new rules adopted here. the proposal improves the rapid alert and response system set up in 1998 and facilitates the joint procurement of vaccines by member states. the new rules introduce a common procedure for the joint procurement of medical countermeasures, in particular of vaccines against a pandemic, in order to give member states the possibility to benefit from group procurement on a voluntary basis. as regards pandemic vaccines, in the context of limited production capacities worldwide, this procedure will be carried out with the aim of enabling participating member states to have more equitable access to vaccines in order to help them better meet the vaccination needs of their citizens.
in writing. − the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on serious crossborder threats to health arises from the need to draw lessons from recent crises such as the h1n1 influenza pandemic in 2009, the volcanic ash cloud in 2010 or the e. coli bacterium in 2011. in this context, the commission presented on 8 december 2011 a proposal for a decision providing for the means and structures for the effective protection of all european citizens against a wide range of cross-border health threats. the commission proposal, based on the rapid alert and response system for communicable diseases set up in 1998, sets out measures to strengthen the eu's response capacity to prevent serious crossborder health threats and to provide it with means, networks and structures complementary to those already in place to combat these threats. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the assumptions of the initiative and the measures proposed.
in writing. − to ensure effective protection for all citizens in europe, member states must be able to coordinate their resources and structures in the event of a crossborder health threat. the commission therefore proposes measures to strengthen the eu's response capacity in the prevention of threats: on the one hand, the coordination, through appropriate channels or structures, of available expertise and, on the other hand, the possibility of delegating to the commission the power to adopt acts concerning the measures necessary to complete the action of the member states in health emergencies, with a view to the transnational aspects of the control of serious threats. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission presented on 8 december 2011 a proposal for a decision providing the means and structures for an efficient protection of all european citizens against a wide range of cross-border health threats. parliament welcomed the proposal for a decision on crossborder threats, in particular as regards the coordination and efficiency of the response to serious health threats. the commission wishes to extend the scope of the rapid alert and response system to all serious cross-border health threats by this decision in order to fill gaps identified in recent years in health risk notification, surveillance, assessment and management. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the commission has put forward a proposal providing for means and structures for the effective protection of citizens across the eu against a wide range of crossborder health threats. this decision lays down the roles, duties and responsibilities of the main actors and structures at eu level, as well as the arrangements for cooperation and coordination between the various institutions. among other things, the report provides that member states may refer the threats concerned to the health security committee for a coordinated response. in view of the data storage involved in the cooperation and coordination processes, attention is drawn to the need for the controllers to take appropriate measures to protect such personal data and to ensure respect for individual rights, freedoms and guarantees. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that the global financial crisis of 2008 has highlighted shortcomings resulting from the long-standing deregulation of financial services. the crisis quickly spread to the real economy, severely affecting growth, employment and public finances. taxpayers were called upon to help bail out failing financial institutions in order to protect the stability of the system. at the same time, it was recognised that the financial sector was under-taxed compared to other sectors of the economy due to the vat exemption and that it should contribute more significantly to the costs of the crisis. the itf is a socially fair and progressive tax and the ideal tool to enable the tax burden to be shifted from taxpayers to the financial sector, given its multiple functions. therefore, the european parliament resolution of 8 march 2011 on innovative finance at global and european level states that the eu should promote the introduction of an itf at global level; if this is not possible, the eu should, as a first step, implement a european itf.
in writing. - this report is the fourth in which parliament expresses its opinion on the financial transaction fee. since it is not yet possible to apply this rate on a global scale, it will be implemented by the enhanced cooperation method in 11 eu countries: belgium, germany, estonia, greece, spain, france, italy, austria, portugal, slovenia and slovakia. in view of the origins of the financial crisis and the damage caused by the financial sector to the european economy, the objective of this proposal is to ensure that the financial sector is taxed fairly in relation to other sectors of the economy, to discourage activities that involve too high a risk, to complement existing legislation in preventing future crises and to reduce the fragmentation of the internal market in indirect taxation, and to generate additional revenue at a time of severe financial consolidation. the european parliament proposes that the tax be applied under the issuance principle also to otc derivatives, that the ownership principle be reintroduced and that the residence principle be strengthened, so as to reduce the propensity for tax evasion. the legislation should be applied as uniformly as possible in order to minimise the likelihood of escape. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - mrs podimata presents a text on the proposal for a council directive implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax. the crisis, which, as we all know, was caused by the speculative behaviour of some banks, calls for maximising all the revenue that can be channelled into the investment so necessary for economic growth and job creation. one of the ways we can get more resources is by introducing a tax on all financial transactions, but in such a way that there is no evasion or loopholes. despite some divergent views, i believe that this is a good and positive agreement which should be applied in equal circumstances to all markets. however, the application of this tax cannot be passed on to citizens but to banking institutions, taxing speculative transactions and providing greater stability to the financial sector. i welcome the agreement reached, although i regret that it was not possible to reach an agreement at 28 or at least in the whole euro zone. because the interest of the european citizen must come first, i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive and i hope that it will come into force on 1 january 2014.
in writing. - in theory, this cooperation would be a step forward in the implementation of a financial transaction tax, which we have long advocated. in practice, everything can be settled for very little or almost nothing. of course, because we are dealing with enhanced cooperation by 11 countries, leaving out all the others, who do not accept even the slightest of the advances made by this proposal. secondly, because the amount of the tax will be fixed by each country, so it is not difficult to predict that there will be a race to see who sets the lowest. and because the large illegal traffic will continue through the offshore - the sites of economic crime that the eu keeps untouched. it's just a way of responding to public opinion and criticism of the financial system, without actually touching the financial system. in europe, almost €5 billion of public aid has been used to rescue the banking and financial system over the past three years. the only reference to the use of the amounts that would be generated points to the proportional decrease in member states' contributions to the eu budget! the real cost of the crisis is paid by the workers and the people, by small businesses and the real economy of countries like portugal.
in writing. − the enhanced cooperation procedure allows a group of at least nine member states to move forward with an initiative proposed by the commission, as soon as it is found impossible to reach a unanimous position within a reasonable period. it applies only to policy areas requiring unanimity and is intended to overcome the situation where certain countries are prevented from moving forward with a common approach due to the reluctance and lack of agreement of others. the proposal approves the opinion on the specific elements of the financial transaction tax (ftt) to be applied by 11 member states, including portugal. the introduction of a tax covering a wide range of financial instruments is advocated, with rates of 0.1% on shares and bonds and 0.01% on derivatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the fourth in which the european parliament expresses its opinion on the financial transaction fee. since it is not yet possible to apply this rate on a global scale, it will be implemented by the enhanced cooperation method in 11 eu countries: belgium, germany, estonia, greece, spain, france, italy, austria, portugal, slovenia and slovakia. in view of the origins of the financial crisis and the damage that the financial sector has caused to the european economy, the objective of this proposal is to ensure that the financial sector is taxed fairly in relation to other sectors of the economy and to discourage activities that involve too high a risk. the european parliament proposes that the rate should also be applied to otc derivatives under the issuance principle, that the ownership principle should be reintroduced and that the residence principle should be strengthened in order to reduce the propensity for tax evasion. the commission is also proposing that the legislation be applied as uniformly as possible in order to minimise the likelihood of escape.
in writing. - this report is the fourth in which the european parliament expresses its views on the financial transaction fee. since it is not yet possible to apply this rate on a global scale, it will be implemented through the enhanced cooperation mechanism involving 11 eu countries: belgium, germany, estonia, greece, spain, france, italy, austria, portugal, slovenia and slovakia. in view of the origins of the economic and financial crisis and the problems caused by the financial sector, the objectives of this proposal are to ensure that the financial sector is taxed fairly in relation to other sectors of the economy; to discourage activities that involve too high a risk; to complement existing legislation in preventing future crises; to reduce the fragmentation of the internal market in indirect taxation; and to generate additional revenue at a time of severe financial consolidation. the european parliament proposes that the tax be applied on the basis of the issue principle also to otc derivatives, that the ownership principle be reintroduced and that the residence principle be strengthened in order to reduce the propensity for tax evasion. the legislation should be applied as uniformly as possible in order to minimise the likelihood of escape. i voted in favour.
in writing. − over the past few years, member states have supported the recapitalisation of several banks, injecting millions of euros into them to make them sustainable and prevent their collapse. it happens that this capital injection forces member states to adopt severe austerity measures with clear negative implications for citizens, unlike what happens with banks. in this sense, i believe that banks too should contribute to resolving the current crisis, which in most cases has its origin in the mismanagement of banking and financial activities. i am voting in favour of the proposal which lays down the specific elements of the financial transaction tax (ftt) to be applied by 11 member states, including portugal. i believe that this tax should cover a wide range of financial instruments, with rates of 0.1% on stocks and bonds and 0.01% on derivatives.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that latvia has made considerable economic progress in the last decades since its transition to a market economy. economic reforms have been key to this progress, increasing competitiveness and facilitating its integration into the eu economy, but also into the wider world economy. the successive governments in latvia have also been exceptionally strict in their approach to structural reforms. the latest reforms implemented in 2009-2010 saw considerable wage cuts and tax increases during the crisis. these austerity measures were very successful and paved the way for latvia to emerge from the crisis. despite the high short-term costs, latvia has managed to implement credible policies that put the country back on a stable growth path. as a result of massive capital injections that continued to largely finance the large expansion of the construction and consumer sectors, the current account deficit reached an all-time low of -22,5% of gdp in 2006. it was radically corrected in the severe crisis of 2009-2010, resulting in a surplus of 8,6% in 2009. since then, the current account has been stabilised at a slightly deficit level of -1,7% in 2012 and is expected to remain stable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it normal that if latvia meets the convergence criteria, it can join the euro on 1 january 2014. the sustainability of the macroeconomic and financial situation will now depend on the implementation of balanced and far-reaching reforms aimed at combining discipline and solidarity with sustainable long-term investments, not only in latvia but also in the economic and monetary union as a whole.
in writing. - this is another important moment in the history of the european union, and in particular for the euro family. from 2014 onwards, 17 countries will use the single currency. i would like to greet and congratulate the people of latvia at this important and decisive moment in their history and i would also like to recall and welcome the invaluable efforts made by latvia in recent years in terms of fiscal consolidation and state reform, which should serve as an example for us all.
in writing. − latvia, a member state of the european union, requested on 4 march 2013 a convergence report under the treaty on the functioning of the european union so that it could adopt the euro as from 1 january 2014. despite all the criticisms they make of the european currency, the truth is that it remains a factor of unity and stability and leads other member states to apply to join. despite some structural challenges that latvia still has to overcome, such as the stability of the financial system and unemployment, the truth is that it has managed to meet the convergence criteria in relation to the balance of its external accounts, price stability, growth, interest rates, among others, making it compatible with the requirements for euro area membership. i welcome the efforts of latvia, the 18th member state to apply for membership, whose financial sector is already well integrated into the union's financial system. as i consider this accession to be very important for the eu, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague, mr burkhard balz, on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption of the euro by latvia on 1 january 2014.
in writing. − the commission and ecb evaluation reports recommend that the council approve the adoption of the euro by latvia as from 1 january 2014. this assessment took place at a time when the economic and financial crisis has hit latvia hard in terms of poverty, unemployment and demographic trends. the report does not criticize the socioeconomic consequences of the neoliberal policies which are the basis and reason for the single currency, and which are well reflected in the accession criteria. the commission also stresses that the eu should continue to support the development of the baltic sea region and the baltic sea region should be a priority for the eu. only then can the overall sustainability of the macroeconomic and financial situation be achieved. the same conversation, with the same results, so well known to the peripheral countries - economic slowdown and recession, worsening imbalances and structural deficits, increasing poverty and dependence. moreover, this is yet another decision taken at the expense of the people - in this case, the main stakeholder, the latvian people, who in the majority do not support their government's decision to join the euro - as is admitted with immeasurable brazenness in the report itself, which nevertheless defends membership.
in writing. − latvia's entry into the euro area as of 1 january 2014 has put to rest those who thought that the single currency was dying out in the face of the current crisis or that it was having a bad time. the adoption of the euro by latvia shows that there are other member states interested in joining the euro club and that the single currency is a project in which we must all continue to believe. despite the various incidents and attacks it has suffered, the euro is still a structuring project for the eu that must be maintained and, if possible, extended.
in writing. - latvia is the 18th country to apply for membership of the euro area. the report, which gives a positive assessment of latvia's entry into the single currency, considers that latvia has demonstrated a remarkable capacity for economic recovery following a request for assistance from the imf and a high degree of convergence with the criteria required to join the club of euro countries, although improvements are still needed in some areas to ensure the soundness of its economy. the positive aspects include the fulfilment of the convergence criteria in terms of price stability, public accounts, interest rates, growth expectations and competitiveness gains, balanced external accounts and interconnection with the other european economies. some structural challenges remain identified, such as the stability of its financial system (although it accounts for a small share of the country's gdp), high unemployment and labour market problems, lack of awareness among the latvian people about the adoption of the single currency, over-dependence on russia for energy, and structural inequalities and poverty, to which the country should pay due attention. in approving the report, i believe that the utmost caution should be exercised in the enlargement of the euro area or the european union as long as the european crisis is not overcome.
in writing. - latvia is the 18th country to apply to join the euro area. this report gives a positive assessment of the country's entry into the single currency. although improvements are still needed in some areas to ensure the soundness of its economy, latvia has demonstrated a remarkable capacity for economic recovery following a request for assistance from the imf and a high degree of convergence with the criteria required to join the euro area group of countries. the positive aspects include the fulfilment of the convergence criteria in terms of price stability, public accounts, interest rates, growth expectations and competitiveness gains, balanced external accounts and interconnection with the other european economies. some structural challenges remain, such as the stability of its financial system (despite representing a small share of the country's gdp), high unemployment and labour market problems, the lack of awareness among the latvian people about the adoption of the single currency, excessive energy dependence on russia, structural inequalities and poverty. i hope that these weaknesses can be overcome and i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the single currency is one of the most important projects in the construction of europe, with 17 countries having already joined the euro and many other countries, even non-european ones, interested in adopting it as their official currency. i would like to congratulate latvia on its decision to join the euro as the 18th member state as of 1 january 2014. finally, i would also stress that latvia's accession shows that the single currency is still strong and is extending its influence internationally, often rivaling the importance of the us dollar on financial markets.
in writing. − in march this year, latvia requested a convergence report under article 140 (1) tfeu with a view to adopting the euro on 1 january 2014. the commission and the ecb evaluation reports recommend that the council approve the adoption of the euro by latvia in 2014. this assessment took place at a time when the economic and financial crisis had hit latvia hard in terms of poverty, unemployment and demographic trends. the report does not criticize the socioeconomic consequences of right-wing and neoliberal policies. the report recommends that latvia should implement balanced and far-reaching reforms aimed at combining discipline and solidarity with sustainable long-term investments. only then can the overall sustainability of the macroeconomic and financial situation be achieved. that is to say, another country where the policy of deficit obsession will be imposed, without regard to the specific economic features of the country. it should be noted that the majority of latvian citizens do not support the decision of their government to join the euro.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by welcoming the adoption by the commission, at european level, of a common definition of serious injuries, based on the internationally recognised classification of injuries as the maximum abbreviated scale of injuries. i therefore urge member states to swiftly implement the common definition of serious road traffic injury adopted by the european union and, on the basis of that definition, to collect and disseminate statistics by mode of transport, including vulnerable road users, and by type of road infrastructure for 2014. i also believe that the development of a common mechanism for the collection and dissemination of data should not prevent urgent action at eu level to reduce the number of people seriously injured on the roads. i also welcome the priorities set by the commission to develop its overall strategy, namely the management of the impact of collisions, the accident management strategy, the provision of first aid and emergency care and long-term rehabilitation processes, and its call for the rapid implementation of these priorities.
in writing. - i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteurs for their work. contrary to what some of my colleagues say, i am convinced that we need a transversal european regulation. now the holiday season begins. imagine that today the technical checks in the 28 countries would be different, which would mean that road inspections would have to be repeated in each country. the technical controls which, as i said, have been discussed here in the past, have contributed to the improvement of technology. we've never had such good equipment as we have now, which, consequently, serves to improve safety. and last but not least, there is also a positive impact on the environment. everything we've supported in parliament over the years.
in writing. − in 2011, more than 30 000 people died and around 1.5 million were injured in road accidents in the european union, many of them seriously, resulting in permanent injuries. pedestrians and cyclists together account for 50% of the total number of road fatalities in urban areas and a substantial share of serious accidents. to give you an idea of the scale of this problem, we can say that the number of road deaths in 2011 would be equivalent to about 200 medium-sized commercial airliners full of passengers crashing. i come from a country where the effective fight against road accidents is a priority, and i cannot but support all measures at european level which seek to reduce accidents and improve road safety on european roads.
in writing. the motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, following a question by brian simpsom on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, concerns road safety for the period 2011 to 2020, specifically the need to adopt a strategy to reduce the number of people injured in road accidents. the creation of the schengen area, with the elimination of land borders, has given european citizens greater road mobility. despite the marked reduction in the number of deaths on european roads, the reality is that the figures should continue to worry us: every year in the european union, 85,000 people die and 100,000 are seriously injured. every fatal accident is at least one life lost and one family torn apart. the main causes of these accidents are equipment failures, road degradation, driver behaviour and speeding. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it is urgent that the eu adopt minimum safety standards, particularly with regard to the state of vehicles, and promote a more effective service of care in order to reduce post-traumatic injuries.
in writing. - statistics on road accident numbers are alarming, especially when you look at the number of injured and dead. urban areas are among the most affected, with pedestrians, motorcyclists and cyclists the most frequent victims. the resolution gives priority to serious injuries in road safety activities, taking into account the commission's initiative to adopt a common definition of serious injuries based on the internationally recognised classification of the ais. the targets set for a reduction of road accidents by up to 40% for the period 2014-2020 and the maintenance of the concept of zero fatalities as a long-term goal are positive. the commission is proposing to improve first aid and emergency medical services, and long-term care and rehabilitation after accidents, and is urging member states to support the european emergency number 112 and to make public safety hotlines fully operational by 2015. we voted in favour.
in writing. − in 2011, more than 30 000 people died and around 1 500 000 were injured (of whom more than 250 000 were seriously injured) in road accidents in the european union. in view of these figures, i believe that we should give priority to serious injuries in road safety activities. we must take measures to reduce these values. the figures for deaths and serious injuries in road accidents are often published, but the figures for deaths resulting from the high number of serious injuries are rarely published, which leads us to devalue this element.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on road safety 2011-2020 - first steps towards an injured person strategy. i agree with the measures expressed, in particular the priorities set by the commission to develop its overall strategy, i.e. impact management of collisions, accident management strategy, first aid and emergency care and long-term rehabilitation processes. in this resolution, parliament calls for the swift implementation of these priorities with a view to the immediate reduction of serious injuries on european roads, stressing the need for better and faster implementation of a whole range of existing legislation and measures in order to reduce the impact of collisions, increase user safety and reduce serious injuries.
in writing. − we know that for every 30 000 fatal accidents recorded in the eu in 2011, there are four more accidents that cause permanent disability to road users. on the basis of the statistical data available, the commission decided to give priority to the road traffic injury strategy, with a view to european-wide action in this area: the common definition of serious injury; the setting of an ambitious target of reducing road traffic accidents by up to 40% on the basis of the data collected; the management of the impact of collisions; the accident management strategy; and the provision of first aid and long-term rehabilitation processes. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that parliament should give priority to efforts in the field of road safety, in the areas of legislation, development, health and education.
in writing. - given that the number of people injured on european union roads continues to increase year by year, with some 1 500 000 injured each year, of whom 300 000 are considered to be seriously injured, the commission's announced target of halving the number of road fatalities is still far from being achieved. for these numbers, we need a clear plan with concrete targets and measures, timed properly. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to present a strategy to reduce the number of road accidents and road injuries, to protect the most vulnerable road users and to improve first aid and emergency services in the member states. horizontal measures should also be taken, including improving road lanes and training drivers and road users.
in writing. the resolution gives priority to serious injuries in road safety activities, a commission initiative which aims to adopt a common definition of serious injuries based on the internationally recognised classification of the ais. the targets set for a reduction of road accidents by up to 40% for the period 2014-2020 and the maintenance of the concept of zero fatalities as a long-term goal are positive. it proposes to improve first aid and emergency medical services, and long-term care and rehabilitation after accidents, and calls on the member states to support the european emergency number 112 and to make public safety hotlines fully operational by 2015. it looks good to us.
in writing. - i approve this report, beginning by urging the hungarian authorities to inform parliament, the commission, the council and european council presidencies, and the council of europe, of the implementation of the measures requested. i also invite the commission and the council to appoint a representative who, together with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of parliament (article 2 trilogue), will carry out an evaluation of the information provided by the hungarian authorities on the implementation of the recommendations in paragraph 71 and a follow-up of possible future amendments to ensure their compliance with article 2 teu. finally, i ask the conference of presidents to consider whether the mechanisms provided for in the treaty, in particular article 7 (1) teu, should be used if the hungarian authorities' replies do not appear to meet the requirements of article 2 teu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it urges the hungarian authorities to correct as soon as possible the systematic violations of eu values. the hungarian authorities should follow the ep's recommendations to ensure that the rule of law is fully restored in the country, that the independence of the judiciary is respected and that the media laws are reviewed.
in writing. − the european union bases its functioning on principles and values that uphold the rule of law and respect for human rights. the new hungarian government, led by viktor orbán and supported by a parliamentary majority, has adopted constitutional rules that are contrary to eu values, notably the necessary independence of judges from political power - contrary to european legislation -, the lack of protection of minorities or the lack of freedom of the press. not to mention an election law tailor-made for the ruling party. the judgment of the court of justice of the european union itself was not taken into account. these violations of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law prompted an analysis of the political situation in hungary by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe on 13 june. the european commission, in its capacity as guardian of the treaties, has identified four incompatibilities with european legislation, although hungary has committed itself to bringing its constitution into line with european legislation. because it is necessary to show hungary that it cannot continue to violate eu principles and values, i voted in favour of the report by mr rui tavares on the situation of fundamental rights: standards and practices in hungary.
in writing. - this report addresses extremely worrying political developments in hungary. it ignores others of equal gravity, such as the attempt to outlaw the hungarian communist workers' party by prohibiting the use of words such as communism, socialism and liberation. in hungary there is a continuing degradation of the political, labour and social rights of workers and the people. unemployment and emigration are skyrocketing. the poverty wages and pensions, poverty, high prices, the gradual destruction of public services, the attack on workers' freedom of association and organisation are other factors which help to make up a very worrying picture. the concern about this reality is justified. but we do not support the attempt to whitewash the eu's own responsibilities in this situation, which, moreover, has parallels in some (and only some) of the factors described with what is happening in other countries. nor do we accept that this eu, which has a heavy responsibility for the deterioration of the political, economic and social situation in many member states, such as portugal, should now be seen as the good cop, the defender of democracy and human rights, for whose deterioration it has been responsible.
in writing. - the hungarian situation is very delicate and cannot be analysed on an ideological basis. i think the rapporteur has forgotten this aspect in this report, which is supported by the left represented in the ep and rejected by the political groups on the right. when the vote is split, as is the case, something was not taken into account in the discussions before the reports were adopted. the vote in committee was already very divided, which already indicated a great deal of controversy, both on the subject and on the content of this report. although there may be some positions of the hungarian government with which i do not agree, i consider that the amendment of a constitution inherited from a communist regime is the prerogative of that government alone. i do not see, as the rapporteur does, any matter which is so reprehensible that it would lead to the application of article 7 of the european treaty.
in writing. − the european commission and the european parliament recognise that the european union is not just a free trade area, there are common values which result from the adoption of the european charter of fundamental rights and its incorporation into the treaties through the treaty of lisbon. the common values include the independence of the judiciary, the guarantee of democratic alternation, the protection of personal data, transparent regulation of electoral campaigns, respect for the dignity of persons and the protection of ethnic, linguistic, racial, sexual or any other minorities, including the homeless, and freedom of the media. some of these aspects are not yet being fully respected in hungary, despite the positive response to the european commission's calls, which is why i decided to abstain in the vote on this report.
in writing. - while recognising that some situations raise concerns and perplexities from the point of view of respect for the values on which the eu is founded, the truth is that the hungarian authorities have been following the commission's observations and recommendations, a fact which, being of enormous importance, is virtually omitted in this report. i therefore voted against this resolution because i consider that the report does not provide a complete and accurate analysis of the situation in hungary and its complexity.
in writing. − a member state must respect the basic principles of the rule of law and the separation of powers. the european union should not point to and demand the application of democratic principles and the rule of law from external partners when there are internal doubts about their actual application. the hungarian government is accused of violating the impartiality of the judicial system, obscuring the electoral law, abusing the power to pass laws and attempting to control the different national hierarchies. in addition to these complaints, the hungarian government has backed down on some measures following a recommendation from the european commission. for these reasons, i abstain on this report, pending the settlement of these points between hungary and the european institutions.
in writing. - this report uses real and extremely worrying political developments in hungary to openly promote interference in the internal affairs of that country and thus create the conditions for the implementation of the same policy using, however, different means. it aims to take advantage of the current situation in the country to try to legitimize and impose its power and the power of the eu treaties - the same ones that are invoked to impose the regression in labour and social rights, especially in portugal. it is not the purpose of this report on fundamental rights to counteract the degradation of the political, labour and social rights of hungarian workers and people, the increasing unemployment and emigration, poverty wages and pensions, poverty, high prices, the gradual destruction of public services, the attack on workers' freedom of association and organisation. nor was it to denounce the attempt to outlaw the hungarian communist workers' party by prohibiting the use of words such as communism, socialism and liberation, which is an act of the utmost gravity. the imposition of political programmes in the light of eu principles is also a form of ideological control and domination and interference which we do not support.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by stressing that member states should implement flood prevention programmes through comprehensive and preventive strategies, stressing that emergency policy, including prevention and response to emergencies, requires closer involvement of regions, cities and local communities, which should be encouraged to include emergency policy in their strategies. stresses furthermore that investments in flood prevention under the relevant programmes require adequate financial resources, as this is an important instrument enabling member state governments to develop and implement flood prevention policies; and stressed that investments in support of disaster prevention should follow an ecosystem-based approach.
in writing. - it is important that we show the european union's solidarity with the flood victims and provide aid quickly. we just have to try to do a good job and improve this mechanism, the european union solidarity fund, so that the victims can get the money faster, so that the aid is quick and efficient, so that the greatest impact of this catastrophe is minimized. i would stress that member states should implement flood prevention programmes through comprehensive and preventive strategies; stresses that emergency policy, including prevention and response to emergencies, requires closer involvement of regions, cities and local communities, which should be encouraged to include emergency policy in their strategies.
in writing. - some central european countries (hungary, austria, slovakia and germany) were hit by a weather catastrophe at the beginning of june, triggered by unprecedented rainfall, which killed more than 100 people, injured hundreds and affected thousands more. this tragedy, similar to the one that occurred in 2012, has shown some improvements in the way it has been dealt with, although some intolerable problems remain, such as the delay in the payment of grants awarded under the structural funds that take time to reach the rightful owners. the recurrence of these floods draws our attention to the whole problem of climate change and calls for preventive and mitigating measures. it is at such times that solidarity from member states is needed, especially as it is the most vulnerable communities that are most affected. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and i urge the european authorities to make available the funds available as soon as possible so that the affected regions can quickly recover the damage caused so as to normalise all their economic and social activity.
in writing. − floods in some european countries have caused serious damage in several regions, affecting infrastructure, businesses, agriculture and rural areas. they have destroyed elements of the natural and cultural heritage, causing deaths and injuries and forcing thousands of people to flee their homes. the people affected deserve our full solidarity. this solidarity must be translated into practical action by mobilizing the resources needed to deal with the damage and to repair the affected areas as quickly as possible. that is why we supported this resolution. it is almost three years since this parliament adopted a report on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. this report defined a set of actions to be prioritised for eu support to member states to correct risk-inducing situations, in areas such as the recovery and protection of watersheds, the protection/remodelling of inhabited areas particularly vulnerable to certain types of disasters, among others. the report also called for, among other things, a review of the solidarity fund, making it more rapidly mobilisable. three years later, disasters are coming and going and the commission has done almost nothing to implement parliament's recommendations. it's time to act!
in writing. − there has recently been a major natural disaster in the form of floods in many european countries, notably austria, the czech republic, germany, hungary, poland, slovakia, france and spain, which have caused severe damage to cities, towns and municipalities, as well as to infrastructure, businesses, agriculture, rural areas, and which have destroyed elements of the natural and cultural heritage, causing deaths and injuries and forcing thousands of people to leave their homes. we must therefore pool all the efforts and all the available mechanisms to deal with this catastrophe and try in some way to minimise the suffering of the affected populations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on floods in europe, which sets out measures to prevent these disasters, and in which i stress the call on the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to the planning and review of policies on sustainable land use, ecosystem absorption capacities and best practices, and to the enhancement of the capacity of flood control and drainage systems in order to prevent the severe floods that occur throughout the union.
in writing. − the soils of central europe, before the may-july rains, already exceptionally saturated and with record humidity levels due to precipitation caused by cyclone christoffer, did not absorb the rainwater derived, leading to a flood scenario that caused serious damage to cities, towns and municipalities in europe. the catastrophe caused deaths and injuries, forced people to leave their homes and destroyed elements of the natural and cultural heritage. in this context, the commission considers it urgent to strengthen the capacity to prevent natural disasters, urging member states to pay particular attention to planning and reviewing spatial planning policies in order to make them more sustainable. it is therefore important to ensure the financing of prevention tools and the proper use of the european union solidarity fund in aid to the affected countries.
in writing. - i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider it crucial to reduce the complexity of the procedures for applicants and the institutional delays for the activation of the european union solidarity fund. in addition, the criteria for designating a regional disaster need to be clarified to avoid rejection requests, which already amount to 66% of the total. the natural disasters that have shaken europe have gone from extraordinary to commonplace. it is therefore necessary to move forward now with the amendment to the european union solidarity fund, which has been blocked in the council since 2005. 62% of the applications received by the commission since 2002 relate to regional disasters, of which only 23% were accepted and the remainder rejected. it is these percentages that show us that quantitative criteria must be applied to the acceptance of applications. the thresholds for regional disasters should also be relaxed, since they are no longer an exception but a frequent reality. we must act now on behalf of the european citizens.
in writing. − floods in some european countries have caused serious damage to towns, cities and villages. it is urgently necessary to undertake the reconstruction of areas destroyed or damaged by disasters in order to repair the related economic, social and environmental losses and impacts. the resolution welcomes the tireless efforts of member states' civil protection and security units, rescue teams and volunteers to save lives and minimise damage in the affected areas and states that emergency policy, including prevention and response to emergencies, requires closer involvement of regions, cities and local communities, which should be encouraged to include emergency policy in their strategies. the council and the commission are called upon to take all necessary measures to ensure the rapid and adequate provision of financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund and to alert the public to the urgency of the release of this financial assistance to the countries affected by this natural disaster. we're obviously in agreement.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the gpan report concluded that excessive risk-taking, excessive debt ratios, inadequate capital and liquidity requirements and the excessive complexity of the banking system in general caused the financial crisis. while the regulatory reforms address these weaknesses, the group concluded that further structural reforms are needed, including the legal separation of certain risk finance activities from banks that accept deposits within a banking group. the purpose of the separation is to make the most socially critical parties safer and less tied to high-risk business activities, and to limit the ransom paid by taxpayers. i agree with this report as it sets out several core principles, including reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting the interlinking of risk and trading activities, improving corporate governance, creating a responsible remuneration system, promoting effective bank resolution and recovery, strengthening banks' capital and making credit available to the real economy, which are key to bringing about a change in the banking culture.
in writing. − the study carried out by the high level expert group set up by the european commission in 2012 concluded that the causes of the financial crisis are deeply linked to excessive risk-taking, very high debt ratios, inadequate capital and liquidity requirements and excessive complexity of the banking system. the study thus concludes that legal separation of banks' risk-taking financial activities is essential to ensure the protection of the most socially critical activities, limit losses imposed on taxpayers and make banking structures simpler, transparent and easily recoverable. this report is the ep's main contribution to this subject. it sets out several core principles, including reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting the interlinking of risk and commercial activities, improving corporate governance, creating a responsible remuneration system, promoting effective bank resolution and recovery, strengthening banks' capital and making credit available to the real economy, which are key to bringing about a change in the banking culture. i am voting in favour of this report and look forward to the commission's proposals on this subject in the autumn.
in writing. - since the start of the crisis, more than €1.6 billion of state aid (12.8% of eu gdp) has been granted to the banking sector, leading to a sharp increase in member states' public debt. since then, the european union has been strengthening the acquis in terms of prudential banking and financial supervision rules and in october 2012 a high level expert group produced a report on a possible structural reform of the eu banking sector. the report analyses the current business models followed by european financial institutions and looks at possible ways of making them less volatile and less prone to risk. i therefore agree with the decision taken today to ask the european commission to look at this report in more detail and to consider the need for further reform of this specific sector.
in writing. − in 2012, the european commission set up a high-level group to assess structural reform of the banking sector, which concluded that the causes of the financial crisis lie in several pillars: toxic financial products, excessive debt, lack of liquidity and complexity of the banking system that made supervision difficult. in order to avoid similar situations in the future, we must create a sound banking system based on strong structures, which guarantees consumer protection. the separation between financial activities considered to be speculative or risky and current operations is essential in order to protect small savers. we need to strengthen the banking system by having simpler, more transparent and more recoverable banking institutions. structural measures such as increased bank capitalisation, improved supervision and increased liquidity are needed. only then will we be better able to protect citizens and taxpayers. i voted in favour of the report by my colleague arlene mccarthy on structural reform of the eu banking sector because it introduces measures that reduce complexity, strengthen competition, limit systemic risk, improve corporate governance and make credit available to small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. − the structural reform that the banking sector needs is one that leads to the recovery of its primary function of supporting economic activity and its objective of meeting the development needs of the people. this can only be achieved by regaining political control of the development process, by subordinating economic power to democratic political power, and by putting the need for a dominant and dynamic public financial sector on the agenda. the role of the public financial sector needs to be strengthened (through renationalisation or direct negotiation) in order to promote economic development, support productive and job-creating investment, support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the cooperative and social sector and households. this requires the rejection of the process of concentration and centralisation of the sector, with the promotion of bankruptcies, mergers and acquisitions, via the so-called banking union and its control by the ecb and the financial capital structures. and it is necessary to change the statutes, the guidelines and the false autonomy of the ecb, ensuring the equal presence of the states in its management, in order to ensure effective political control by the member states, control by each country of its national central bank and monetary policy.
in writing. − in february 2012, the high level expert group (hleg) was established to address the question of whether further reforms to the structure of the eu banking sector would reduce the likelihood and impact of bank defaults and ensure the continuation of critical economic functions in the event of a default, in order to better protect retail customers. this report aims to define core principles, including reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting the interlinkage of risk and trading activities, improving corporate governance, creating a responsible remuneration system, promoting effective bank resolution and recovery, strengthening banks' capital and making credit available to the real economy, which are key to bringing about a change in the banking culture. i believe it is essential that the reform of the eu banking structure provides a safe, stable and efficient banking system that responds to the needs of the real economy, customers and consumers and supports the provision of credit to the economy, in particular to smes and start-ups.
in writing. − the european commission set up a high level expert group in 2012 which concluded that the causes of the financial crisis are deeply linked to excessive risk taking, very high debt ratios, inadequate capital and liquidity requirements and excessive complexity of the banking system. the study concludes that the legal separation of banks' risk-taking financial activities is essential to ensure the protection of the most socially critical activities, limit losses imposed on taxpayers and make banking structures simpler, more transparent and more easily recoverable. this report is the ep's main contribution to this subject. it sets out several core principles, including reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting the interlinking of risk and commercial activities, improving corporate governance, creating a responsible remuneration system, promoting effective bank resolution and recovery, strengthening banks' capital and making credit available to the real economy, which are key to bringing about a change in the banking culture. i voted in favour of this report, hoping that the commission will incorporate these ideas in the proposals it will present on this subject in the autumn.
in writing. − the study carried out by the high level expert group set up by the european commission in 2012 concluded that the causes of the financial crisis are deeply linked to excessive risk-taking, very high debt ratios, inadequate capital and liquidity requirements and excessive complexity of the banking system. the study thus concluded that legal separation of banks' risk-taking financial activities is essential to ensure the protection of the most socially critical activities, limit losses imposed on taxpayers and make banking structures simpler, more transparent and more readily recoverable. this report is the ep's main contribution to this subject. it defines several core principles that are key to bringing about change in banking culture, among which are: reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting the interlinkage between risk and commercial activities, improving corporate governance, creating a responsible remuneration system, promoting effective bank resolution and recovery, strengthening banks' capital and making credit available to the real economy. i voted in favour of this report, expecting the commission to make concrete proposals on this subject next autumn.
in writing. − throughout the economic and financial crisis in europe, more than €1.6 trillion (12.8% of eu gdp) of state aid was granted to the banking sector between 2008 and the end of 2011, including €1.08 trillion for guarantees, €320 billion for recapitalisation measures, €120 billion for impaired assets and €90 billion for liquidity measures. i am voting in favour of this report which sets out a number of reforms that will need to be undertaken in banking, and with which i fully agree, such as ensuring competition, reducing complexity and limiting interconnection by providing for the separate operation of core activities, improving corporate governance, enabling efficient bank resolution and recovery and ensuring the provision of core credit, deposit and payment services without being affected by operational problems. i also stress the importance of respecting the rules of a competitive market economy so that risk trading and investment activities do not benefit from implicit guarantees or subsidies, from the use of guaranteed deposits or from bailouts paid by taxpayers.
in writing. - the structural reform of the banking sector, with the aim of making it a central element in supporting economic activity and its objective of satisfying the needs of the people, can only result from the recovery of political control of the development process, with the subordination of economic power to democratic political power, putting on the agenda the need for a dominant and dynamic public financial sector at the service of the sovereignty of each country. the role of the public financial sector needs to be strengthened to promote economic development in each country, to support productive and job-creating investment, to stimulate national exports and to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the cooperative and social sector. this requires the rejection of the trend towards strengthening federalism and the process of concentration and centralisation of the sector which it aims at, with the promotion of bankruptcies, mergers and acquisitions via the so-called banking union and its control by the ecb and the financial capital structures. and it is necessary to change the statutes, the guidelines and the false autonomy of the ecb, ensuring the equal presence of the states in its management, in order to ensure control by each country of its national central bank and monetary policy.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by welcoming the presentation of the commission's report to the european parliament and the council on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud annual report 2011 (commission's annual report). i regret, however, that the report is limited to the information provided by the member states. i would also stress that member states use different definitions for similar types of crime and that not all collect identical and detailed statistical data according to common criteria, which makes it difficult to collect reliable and comparable statistics at eu level. i therefore regret that it is not possible to assess the real global scale of irregularities and fraud in each member state or to identify and penalise the member states with the highest level of irregularities and fraud, as has been repeatedly requested by parliament, and therefore these bodies are called upon to standardise the criteria for assessing irregularities and fraud in all member states, linking them to their sanctioning measures for non-compliants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support closer cooperation between the commission and the member states in protecting the financial interests of the union and in combating fraud. although the commission has implemented some positive initiatives, most of the policies currently being pursued against corruption are passive. the commission's directorates-general need to strengthen the internal fraud prevention in the areas under their responsibility.
in writing. − the financial interests of the european union are particularly important in times of crisis and, because of this, their management and control must be particularly rigorous and carried out in close cooperation between the european institutions and the member states. the difficulties in collecting own resources in the form of vat and customs duties are well known. like the rapporteur, i wonder whether the reduction in irregularities detected in 2011 is due to reality or to weaknesses in the control systems. i hope that the fight against fraud will continue and bear fruit so that the financial interests of the union can be properly protected and used.
in writing. - the report under review, by mr derek vaughan, focuses on the protection of the european union's (eu) financial interests, in particular the fight against fraud. in a time of economic and financial crisis, it is more crucial than ever to implement measures to stimulate the economy and to prevent all forms of corruption and tax fraud and evasion that undermine society in general and the economy in particular. each year, about €1 trillion escapes the financial control of the member states. this is an amount that requires all taxpayers to behave responsibly. if everyone pays their taxes, we'll all pay less. despite success in the fight against fraud in 2011, fraud fell by 47% and recovery rates improved by more than 40% - much remains to be done. the amounts lost are essential to revive the economy, promote economic growth and create more jobs. i voted in favour of this report because it encourages the fight against fraud, it promotes a better use of community funds - one of the sectors most affected by corruption - by clarifying the concept of public expenditure and it makes supervision more effective.
in writing. − the committee on budgetary control draws up an annual own-initiative report on the protection of the union's financial interests, which also includes information on irregularities and fraud cases reported by the member states. the report criticises the commission for relying on information provided by the member states in its annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud. this is because member states 'use different definitions for similar types of crime and [that] not all collect identical and detailed statistical data according to common criteria, which makes it difficult to collect reliable and comparable statistics at eu level'. it called for the criteria for assessing irregularities and fraud to be harmonised in the member states and for the member states to associate them with the respective sanctions for non-compliance. it called on the commission to play a more active role in monitoring the control systems and supervision of the member states in order to recover funds unduly paid to the eu budget. the report regrets that the criminal law systems are only partially harmonised. we have not followed up on some of the considerations made in the report. the report calls for full transparency in olaf's actions and activities in the case of commissioner dalli.
in writing. − this report on the protection of the european union's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report 2010 contains the latest information on irregularities and suspected cases of fraud reported by the member states. the report analyses a specific topic, agreed in advance between the commission and the member states, namely the risk of double funding in cohesion policy. it is very important that the data provided by the member states are reliable and that they ensure that the fight against fraud in the use of community funds is increasingly effective, as it is a matter of safeguarding the money of all european citizens. the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union is an obligation of the commission and the member states, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's comments on the 2011 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud, in which i highlight the concern that a statistical approach to the problem is not enough to prevent the future fraudulent use of cap funds. it also requires an analysis of the mechanisms behind fraud, particularly in serious cases. it is also considered that member states should notify the commission of all irregularities detected and that notifications of irregularities classified as fraudulent should be subject to close scrutiny.
in writing. − the fight against fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union is an obligation of the commission and the member states, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the strategy to combat fraud should therefore be strengthened and improved as appropriate. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat corruption and to ensure that the eu's financial interests are protected. the conclusions of olaf's studies, which investigate cases affecting the eu budget, deserve careful consideration, and every effort should be made to ensure the recovery of community funds unduly paid to member states and to avoid losses related to customs fraud. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission has presented a resolution on the protection of the european union's financial interests, aimed at assessing the extent to which eu funds or eu budget revenues are at risk of misuse, due to irregularities or fraudulent acts. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is crucial to define new measures to protect the eu's financial interests, to reduce fraud and other irregularities affecting the eu budget, to improve the systems for combating fraud in the area of cohesion policy and the recovery procedures.
in writing. − the committee on budgetary control draws up an annual own-initiative report on the protection of the union's financial interests, which also includes information on irregularities and cases of fraud reported by the member states. the report criticises the commission for limiting itself to the information provided by the member states in its annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud. this is because member states use different definitions for similar types of crime. it called for the criteria for assessing irregularities and fraud to be harmonised in the member states and for the member states to impose sanctions on those who fail to comply. we have not followed up on some of the considerations made in the report.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by insisting that this communication should be submitted in good time to be examined by the eca before the publication of its annual report. i reiterate my encouragement to the commission to make progress towards more accurate and reliable publication of data on recoveries and financial corrections and to provide information which compares, as far as possible, the year in which the payment is made, the year in which the corresponding error is detected and the year in which recoveries or financial corrections are published in the notes to the accounts. i would also stress that all the measures taken to reduce the margin of error must be complemented by a new culture of performance. i believe that in their annual activity reports, the services should assess their performance by summarising the results achieved in contributing to the main policies pursued by the commission, and that this departmental performance should be complemented by an overall assessment of the commission's performance in the evaluation report provided for in article 318 tfeu.
in writing. − strengthening the credibility of the union's institutions means closing the gaps in internal control of budget implementation and continuing to seek to improve financial management. i therefore regret that the commission has not obtained a full positive declaration of reliability from the court of auditors as it had intended. both the commission and the member states must make a greater and more determined effort to ensure that the money entrusted to them by taxpayers is properly managed and strictly monitored. it is not possible to ask less of them in a time that demands heavy sacrifices on the part of individuals and families.
in writing. - this report, by andrea češková, focuses on the integrated internal control framework. in a time of economic crisis and scarce financial resources, the fight against corruption and the fight against tax fraud and evasion are not only essential but can add resources to depleted budgets. in order to detect these deviations, it is essential that the system of checks and balances is functioning optimally, which can only be ensured by the existence of a positive statement of assurance. despite all the progress made - the tolerable error rate is currently 2% - and 62% of member states are able to identify and correct errors before requesting reimbursement from the eu, there is still much to be done to improve the internal control system. i voted in favour of this report which aims to reduce the level of fraud, because the current system, based on a single audit mechanism, does not work in the best way because the links in the chain cannot depend on each other. i therefore welcome the creation of an international working group to monitor the simplification of legislation and the introduction of automatic correction mechanisms.
in writing. − in june 2005, the commission adopted a roadmap for an integrated internal control framework. the aim was to fulfil his commitment to achieve a positive declaration of assurance (das) by the end of his mandate. implementation of its action plan started in 2006. on the one hand, this report aims to assess the progress made and the results achieved by the european commission in implementing its roadmap. in this respect, it points to weaknesses in the single audit system and the control system established by the member states. it is noted that the commission's audit bodies cannot rely on the national audit bodies of the member states. the report also raises questions about the future of the integrated internal control framework and proposes measures to improve it. it therefore calls on the commission to be more rigorous in certifying national audit management authorities and to establish appropriate incentives and an efficient system of sanctions, which could include the suspension of the flow of funds. reiterates the call already made in the 2011 discharge decision for member states to issue national management declarations at the appropriate political level and calls on the commission to establish a model for such declarations;
in writing. − in june 2005, the commission adopted a roadmap for an integrated internal control framework. it aimed to fulfil its commitment to achieve a positive declaration of assurance (das) by the end of its mandate. implementation of its action plan started in 2006. this working document aims to assess the progress made and the results achieved by the european commission in implementing its roadmap in the first part and then raise some questions about the future of the integrated internal control framework. we note that the objectives set by the commission are being achieved, although there are some issues which could be improved in the future.
in writing. − in june 2005, the commission adopted a roadmap for an integrated internal control framework. the aim was to fulfil its commitment to achieve a positive statement of assurance (das) by the end of its mandate, as the european court of auditors indicated that it did not have sufficient reasons for confidence in respect of payments on account of all the headings of the general budget. the implementation of its action plan began in 2006 and the aim was to reform the commission's internal audit model. parliament concludes that progress has been made and that the current practice of performance auditing is likely to be a turning point in the history of discharge and the issue of the positive statement of assurance. there are, however, new targets for extending the system to all levels of payments which i am in favour of. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report of the committee on budgetary control assesses the progress made since the implementation of the action plan for an integrated internal control framework, which started in 2006. the aim of the implementation of this roadmap was to fulfil the european commission's commitment to reach a positive statement of assurance (pda). the rapporteur therefore regrets that the commission's commitment to reach a full positive statement of assurance has not been met and points out in particular that in its report on the statement of assurance for the financial year 2011, the court of auditors concluded that payments were affected by material errors, although it also considered that the supervisory and control systems were, in general, partially efficient. there is a fundamental discrepancy between the court of auditors, which believes that errors can be avoided, and the commission, which relies on subsequent financial corrections and the recovery of funds. the rapporteur therefore urges the member states to strengthen the monitoring of programme implementation at grassroots level. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the commission shall implement the budget on its own responsibility, in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, in cooperation with the member states. i support this report which sets out the principle of more effective internal control as one of the budgetary principles enshrined in the financial regulation of the european union. i would also urge all member states and the european union to validate the objectives of the action plan, not only by the implementation of each action but also by its impact on reducing errors in the underlying operations.
in writing. − in june 2005, the commission adopted a roadmap for an integrated internal control framework. the express objective was to fulfil its commitment to achieve a positive declaration of assurance (das) by the end of its mandate. implementation of its action plan started in 2006. the report points to weaknesses in the single audit system and the control system established by the member states. it is noted that the commission's audit bodies cannot rely on the national audit bodies of the member states. it therefore calls on the commission to be more rigorous in certifying national audit management authorities and to establish appropriate incentives and an efficient system of sanctions, which could include the suspension of the flow of funds.
the closure of the greek national broadcasting company constitutes an authoritarian act which is contrary to the rights and freedom of information of the greek people and constitutes an unprecedented attack on the workers of this public service undertaking. it is the result of the choices made by the greek government and the troika, that is to say the european union, which has so often spoken in favour of freedom of information and communication. it is an attack on freedom of expression and pluralism in the media and information. it aims at the privatisation of this public service, an attack which is also being made on the portuguese people through the continuing attempts to privatise rtp, rdp and lusa, and the dismissal of their workers. we stand in solidarity with the struggle of the greek people and the workers of ert.
twelve years ago i chaired a committee of this parliament on the echelon case (involving the united states, the united kingdom, canada, australia and new zealand). we have proved that in the post-cold war period the us authorities have reoriented their devices towards industrial and economic espionage, harming europe and harming european citizens. prim, the collusion of large american companies, the british tempora programme and the scandal of spying on diplomatic premises have crossed all limits. citizens are rightly concerned that their data held by companies could be misused and wonder if this is the way americans deal with their allies. vice-president reding is right when she stresses the urgent need for us to adopt a strong and rigorous data protection framework. we need strong and clear rules that oblige companies to respect european standards when selling products and services to consumers in the european union and we need to prevent unrestricted international data transfers, always ensuring judicial control and the possibility of appeal. i hope that this parliament will be firm and that all the other european institutions will not waver. we have a duty to protect our citizens!
this information constitutes a very serious situation. they are a violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and are unacceptable interferences in the sovereignty of countries and a gross disregard for the peoples of those countries. what is required is that the commission confirms that it is doing everything to bring the whole situation to a full clarification and that all information that the commission and the council have, or will have, is made public and available to members and governments of the countries. it is also necessary to establish whether and which member states are involved in this programme. it is also necessary to demand the dismantling of this network. this programme has one objective - the political, economic and military strengthening of the united states - and the european union has pursued a policy of compliance, complacency and subordination to the interests of the united states and transnational capital. now, here's the result.
i would like to begin by saying first of all that i am very pleased, as a member of the committee on constitutional affairs, to see that my colleague, andrew duff, has been able to achieve this result. but i do not want to leave out something and i say this to mr duff, mr gualtieri and my colleague mr trzaskowsi, who is no longer in the chamber: it took a lot of pushing to get us here, because it took me amending the composition report on this to get us here. and so i'm particularly pleased because it was a big effort, because i felt some resistance, even from those who believed in this, to do it even before 2014. and so we're all here to applaud everyone's efforts, but the truth is that it took pressure from the commission itself to stand up for what it believes in and not be afraid to bring it here before the 2014 elections. i would like to draw your attention in particular to two or three aspects. the first one, which was actually put here, doesn't make any sense. it is the idea that 'well, the citizens do not know', mr stoyanov said, 'the citizens do not know the european parties or the european acronyms'. but if we don't put them on the ballot, they'll never know them; so for them to know them, they have to put themselves there. this is the first step we have to take. it is clear that if we do not take the steps that are here, to europeanise the european elections, to make them genuinely european, the european citizens will never realise these realities and so this is our duty here. the main one, in my view, although very controversial, is the nomination of a candidate for president of the commission, because i believe that this can, through a political dynamic, not a legal dynamic, bring about a genuine european space, a genuine european public opinion, a genuine european debate. i therefore congratulate all my colleagues on the efforts they have made and on the result we have achieved in the duff report.
a deception operation is under way to try to turn the forthcoming elections to the european parliament into something they are not and cannot be. the political objective is to divert attention from a central issue in these elections: discussing the impact of eu policies on the concrete situation of each country and each people, assessing the position of each party in defence or rejection of these policies and discussing the proposed alternatives. those responsible for the economic recession, unemployment, poverty, social backwardness understandably want to avoid this debate and turn the next election into something else. turning them into a sham election of some figurehead, proposed by european parties, distant from the citizens, from their concrete reality. they also want to legitimize the emptying of the institutions of national sovereignty, which was done by the budgetary treaty among other instruments, because they did not care about the... (the president cut the speaker off)
the european union has a responsibility to combat the arms trade that fuels conflict in the most vulnerable regions of the world and also the export of so-called security technology that helps dictatorships perpetuate themselves and repress citizens. we therefore have an obligation to monitor meticulously the final destination of weapons and technologies produced in europe and transported through europe, something which our member states are not yet doing and which the right wing in this parliament wants to prevent. it is the credibility and coherence of the european union that are at stake, without which policies of development, democratisation, human rights, stabilisation, etc. are perversely compromised. what is asked of the member states in the resolution we shall adopt tomorrow is transparency in the dissemination of all information relating to the export and transfer of arms and military technology to third countries, especially in conflict regions, whether these are obtained through military, police, public or private channels. the high representative must ensure the implementation of the common position adopted in 2009, the reports must be more accurate and operational, and it is essential to publish regularly updated information.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislative resolution which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow seeks to make available macrofinancial assistance from the european union to the republic of georgia in the amount of eur 46 million and is the result of long negotiations with the council and the commission, which have only just been concluded at the conciliation stage. it should be stressed that the point of disagreement between parliament and the council on this point has never been a matter of substance and whether or not this country fulfils the conditions to deserve such assistance. parliament has supported the granting of assistance to georgia from the outset. the question has always been whether, in the light of the new rules resulting from the treaty of lisbon and the 2011 comitology regulation for the approval of the memoranda of understanding on macro-financial assistance, the advisory procedure, as advocated by parliament, or the examination procedure, as advocated by the council, should be adopted as a general rule. two interrelated political issues were at stake in this process. one of a procedural nature, but no less essential for this parliament, is to know what mechanism to adopt and what degree of control the member states must have over the commission's implementing acts in these agreements in the light of the regime arising from the treaty and the comitology regulation. the second political question is to what extent the powers of control of the member states in the council should extend to the commission's executive powers, diminishing its executive autonomy, given that parliament has no power of control over the commission. this process in georgia provides answers to these questions and safeguards the positions of principle which parliament has always taken. but it also provides answers not only to this case of georgia but also to all the pending cases, such as kyrgyzstan and jordan, and to future cases of macrofinancial assistance from the union to third countries. in fact, in parallel with the present case of georgia, a framework regulation for macrofinancial assistance in general was being negotiated, with our colleague metin kazac as rapporteur. however, on 8 may this year the commission informed parliament that it had withdrawn the proposal for a framework regulation because it did not agree with the codecision between parliament and the council for the case-by-case allocation of macrofinancial assistance. the commission intended to grant this by means of an executive act. the withdrawal of the commission proposal on the eve of what was expected to be the last of the trilogue brought the framework regulation to an end. however, in an exemplary process of collaboration and creativity, parliament and the council concluded a virtual regulation between them and transformed the agreement thus reached into a joint declaration to be attached to the decision on assistance to georgia and to be applied henceforth to all other pending and future cases of macrofinancial assistance from the union. the political agreement, the political compromise, has thus been given a formal expression. the joint declaration adopted by parliament and the council, together with the decision on georgia, which the commission has already declared that it accepts, sets out three important points which have always been defended by the european parliament: the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has adopted a decision on the establishment of a european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) in the framework of the european union's action plan on drugs and drug addiction. in conclusion, this has been a complex and time-consuming process, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr metin kazac, the irish presidency of the council for its flexibility and also the vice-president of this parliament, mr alejo vidal-quadras, who was the chairman of the conciliation committee of this parliament.
the rapporteur. - madam president, just three notes: firstly, to recommend to this parliament to vote in favour of the agreement approving the decision to grant macrofinancial assistance to georgia and to support the joint declaration which will be annexed to it, which sets out the framework for future decisions on union financial assistance in this same area. with this decision, parliament, in addition to safeguarding its usual positions, protects the strategic interest and credibility of the union, in so far as it will allow appropriate and timely responses to requests for financial assistance made to the union. secondly, following the agreement reached on georgia, immediate steps have been taken to speed up the procedures for kyrgyzstan and jordan, the kyrgyzstan process is almost complete, jordan is in rapid preparation and we hope that with exceptional measures at the european parliament level we can have a decision by parliament before the end of the year so that, also in the case of jordan, the commission can provide this assistance. thirdly, we welcome the commission's position on the conditionality of financial assistance. in the joint declaration we are voting on tomorrow, this is a crucial issue and obviously it applies also, already, to georgia and, as an essential condition, it is an integral part of the decision to grant such assistance to georgia and the other countries in the future. i therefore trust that parliament will give unanimous or almost unanimous support to this proposal tomorrow.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the gains from greater liberalisation of trade and services can indeed be very significant for the european union. the s&d group therefore supports negotiations for a trade and services agreement between the parties concerned which can be multilateralised at a later stage. the union is the world's largest exporter of services and its participation should start at the beginning of this initiative and is therefore obviously relevant. in the face of the impasse in the doha round, the aim is to negotiate an ambitious agreement that updates rules and is fully compatible with the wto's general agreement on trade and services, gatt. this parliament's resolution is an important contribution to the negotiating process. despite the negotiating mandate adopted by the council in march, the resolution calls for the promotion of the union's offensive interests, for example in business services, information and communication technology services, e-commerce, tourism and construction, but also for the defence of european sensitivities in relation to public services and services of general interest, audiovisual and cultural services and mode 4, i.e. the movement of persons. the european union should promote coherence between the agreement and the multilateral system and endeavour to broaden the scope of the participants in this agreement or their subsequent accession, in particular the brics. the well-negotiated agreement on services can be not only a very positive contribution to the union's economy, which the economy so badly needs, but also to the multilateral trading system. in adopting this resolution, the european parliament is once again demonstrating a serious and responsible alignment with the union's trade policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the text relates to the fact that since 1 january this year european exporters of certain types of cheese, sheepmeat and beef have been faced with ad valorem customs duties of 277%, 429% and 334% on the norwegian market. and so the question to the commission is first of all whether it has been consulted on these norwegian protectionist measures. what are the consequences of these measures on the union's export flows to norway in those products? does the commission consider that there is a breach of norway's obligations under the european economic area agreement and the agreement on the granting of additional trade preferences in agricultural products, which has been in force since january 2012? what action does the commission intend or have it decided to take if there is no credible progress by the norwegian authorities to resolve the matter quickly? this is the text of the question and we are therefore very interested in the commission's answers. allow me two considerations of my responsibility: firstly, the european union is constitutionally bound to a policy of trade openness and regularly denounces the trade protectionist measures of our trading partners. this applies in particular to countries with which we have in-depth trade partnership agreements, such as norway in the framework of the european economic area; secondly, second footnote, relations between the union and norway are strong, with the union being norway's first trading partner. it is important to underline that the union and norway committed themselves in the 2012 bilateral agreement to continue efforts with a view to achieving a progressive liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. new protectionist measures are obviously not in keeping with the gradual liberalization of trade between the two countries. a mutually satisfactory solution is urgently needed and the way forward for norway is obviously to continue the process of liberalising the agricultural sector in accordance with its commitments to the union. we are awaiting the commission's answers.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to start by congratulating the commissioner, who has given us every opportunity to carry out this work and who has also given us the impetus with his programme which you have just described, and i would like to thank my colleagues, especially pablo arias and malcolm harbour, for the space they have opened up for consensus work. the digital market is a challenge with economic potential to deal with the crisis we are going through. electronic commerce has the advantage of simultaneously increasing competitiveness, proximity, supply through the availability of a wide range of options and price comparability, which allows for financial advantages for consumers and sellers. e-commerce, in a europe of 28 and with more than 500 million consumers, deepens the single market, stimulates cross-border purchases and reaches out to remote and outermost areas. on the portuguese island of corvo, in the middle of the atlantic, in the azores archipelago, almost halfway from the united states of america, a good number of its 400 inhabitants resort to online shopping. corvo then receives purchases by mail and regular delivery, including books, cds, furniture, computer equipment, and even many consumer goods. for this to be a reality across the union, progress is needed: broadband coverage of the territory, access to quality wireless networks, the need to comply with article 20 of the consumer directive, which implies non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. this requires strengthening trust in websites and ensuring secure payments, ensuring net neutrality, regulating cloud computing and its challenges, data protection, intellectual property, trust seals and marks, overcoming information exclusion, including language barriers. the day we succeed in strengthening the guarantee of confidence, which is a keyword for sellers and consumers in this 21st century market, we can conclude that the single market has made a giant leap forward.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms lambert, and the shadow rapporteurs for developing this report and for having this debate in plenary. it rightly draws the attention of policy makers at all levels – european, national, regional and local levels – to the impact the economic crisis is having on vulnerable groups in society and their access to health and other forms of care. the commission shares the view that the social investment approach to health and long-term care is needed. investing in sustainable health systems and people’s health and reducing inequalities is decisive for economic growth. investing in prevention and organising early intervention can also prevent much higher costs at a later stage for both the individual and society as a whole. the social investment package adopted by the commission in february 2013 outlines concrete measures of how to reorient social policies so they focus on preparing people to confront risks throughout their lives rather than simply repairing the consequences. the commission is working together with member states and stakeholders on the implementation of the package, including in the areas of health and long-term care. the package also provides suggestions on how to best use the european social fund (esf) to achieve these goals. in the current situation there are more and more demands on the esf to support member states in helping their people and particularly the most vulnerable ones. therefore it is important that the esf receives the appropriate share of cohesion policy resources in each member state. the commission further welcomes the agreement that was reached to allow member states that so wish to increase their allocation to the european programme for the most deprived up to a total of eur 3.5 billion. in the framework of the european semester the commission highlighted the importance of access to and the quality of services. it called for broad access to affordable and high-quality services, such as social and health services, child care, housing and energy supply. the annual growth survey also called for ensuring the cost effectiveness and sustainability of healthcare services by assessing their performance against the twin aim of a more efficient use of public resources and access to high quality health care. the commission welcomes the strong emphasis the report puts on the role of informal carers and the toll care duties often take on their professional and private lives. the commission is working with member states on improving the quality of long-term care in the context of the social protection committee. a report on this issue will be available early in 2014. one further avenue to ensure access to care for vulnerable groups is the completion of the legal framework for protection against discrimination at eu level by adopting the directive based on article 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and monitoring transposition and application. discrimination on grounds of religion, disability, age and sexual orientation is unacceptable in european societies not only in the labour market but also in access to goods and services. it undermines the achievements of the europe 2020 targets, in particular the attainment of a high level of employment and poverty reduction, and may threaten european values such as social cohesion and solidarity. to conclude, i will just reiterate the commission’s commitment to work along many of the lines set out in the report. this is demonstrated by the initiatives we have taken to maintain and improve access to care services for persons in vulnerable situations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. - mr president, the opinion of the femm committee on the report on the impact of the crisis on access to health care for vulnerable groups, for which i am the rapporteur, is quite clear. all people have the right to health, regardless of their economic and social status, and the responsibility for ensuring this right lies with public health systems. the report also stresses that the budget cuts in health are not only the result of the crisis but above all of the austerity measures that were supposed to be the solution to the crisis, which have instead resulted in a setback in women's right to health protection. the commission therefore strongly recommends that the trend of budget cuts in public health systems be reversed, recommends to the emff committee that, on the contrary, investments in these systems be made so that, as regards women's issues, inequalities between men and women in the field of health are tackled, the main public health problems faced by women are tackled, the right to sexual and reproductive health is guaranteed, health services for women victims of violence and health care for babies are guaranteed. the femm committee also recommends that health services be strengthened in primary care and that the universal right to regular medical follow-up be guaranteed. unfortunately, the policies of the european union, particularly the policies of budgetary consolidation, have meant the complete opposite of what is stated in this opinion and in this report, and that is the real face of the european union.
crises don't have the same impact on all people. the main victims are the most disadvantaged: children, the elderly, the disabled. cuts in social and health services are already being felt in many member states. there are patients, especially the elderly, who do not have access to medication. on the other hand, some member states have complex procedures for accessing social security, which prevents some people from receiving what they are entitled to and contributes to the increase of poverty and illness in the most vulnerable groups. health care for people with special needs is also under threat. cost-cutting measures such as the introduction of moderate prepaid healthcare fees, the increase of non-reimbursable expenses or the exclusion of vulnerable groups such as irregular migrants from access to healthcare have not been fully assessed for their consequences. you can't cut back on the essentials, and health is essential.
i commend the work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, particularly those of my political group. we all know that the economic crisis we are experiencing has serious social consequences. the impact on the health of europeans is one such consequence. we have a responsibility to end this spiral of increasing unemployment and poverty that makes it difficult to access health services and that leads many to not be able to buy all the medicines they need and to access medical care. we must prevent austerity measures, which reduce the budget for public health systems, from also contributing to the widening of inequalities in access to health care and from making the most affected people the most deprived and vulnerable, the very ones who deserve the greatest and best protection. any discrimination on grounds of age, sexual orientation or race is unacceptable. it is imperative to prevent the deterioration of health services in the member states and to ensure that investment in the social and health sectors is not disinvested. the european social fund, as the commissioner said, is an important instrument for this purpose. the protection and promotion of health should therefore remain a priority for the member states. the quality, longevity and dignity of human life demand it.
mr president, i would like to call to the attention of colleagues that we are voting on this resolution because there was a whistle-blower, mr snowden, who deserved political asylum and consideration, and i would also like to remind colleagues of the need for this parliament to reject the outrageous violation of international law that several european countries ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the main objective of this dossier was to reach agreement on the procedure for the provision of macro-financial assistance (mfa) to georgia (eur 46 million) in order to support the country's economic stabilisation process and cover its balance of payments needs. the council and parliament had different views on how the memorandum of understanding, which covers the economic policy and financial conditions to which amf is subject, should be adopted. parliament believes that this should be done through the advisory procedure as proposed by the commission, but the council believes that the examination procedure would be more appropriate. i agree with the solution which was to include the elements of the virtual compromise reached on the kasak dossier in a joint declaration which would be supported by parliament and the council and which would be adopted together with the decision on the amf to georgia, on which agreement was reached on the night of the conciliation. the commission did not object to this solution.
in writing. - i welcome the commitment made to the procedure for the provision of macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to georgia (eur 46 million) to support the country's economic stabilisation process and cover its balance of payments needs.
in writing. - as i said earlier, the conflict between russia and georgia, a country which has been proclaiming its desire to join the european union and adhere to its values, makes clear the urgency of defining a strategy for the south caucasus region. despite the tension that has not yet ceased, this is also a region that can have a more stable and balanced future and the union can play an important role in this stabilisation. in this respect, it is important to support georgia in its efforts to reduce the economic and financial fragility that the country still faces.
in writing. - georgia is a country with a european culture and history which will sooner or later become a member of the eu. in 2008, with the onset of the crisis, its economy was deeply affected. it has slowly resumed economic growth, becoming one of the ten most attractive countries in terms of investment and a potential candidate for eu membership. it has started the road to democracy through respect for minorities and human rights and the fight against corruption. the report we have just voted on, drawn up by mr vital moreira, concerns the joint text adopted by the conciliation committee on the decision of the ep and the council granting additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia. this draft legislative resolution has been stalled for two years because there is no regulatory framework under the lisbon treaty to cover this situation. i voted in favour of this proposal because it provides for a political agreement which resolves not only the situation in georgia but also in other states such as jordan and kazakhstan and which is based on the following principles: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's macrofinancial assistance, which will be subject to a joint ep/council decision, will respect the principles of democracy and human rights and will resolve most comitology cases up to €90 million.
in writing. - this report approves the joint draft macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to georgia, which was confirmed by the conciliation committee of the european parliament and the council. the council and parliament had different views on how the memorandum of understanding, which covers the economic policy and financial conditions to which amf is subject, should be adopted. parliament believes that this should be done through the advisory procedure as proposed by the commission, but the council believes that the examination procedure would be more appropriate. it was agreed that the advisory committee procedure would be applied for macro-financial assistance up to eur 90 million and that the examination procedure would be used for higher amounts. parliament and the council were looking for ways to give this agreement a more formal status in the context of the conciliation procedure on the amf to georgia, taking into account the commission's concerns. apart from this dispute between the two institutions, and once the compromise has been reached, it should be reiterated that this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for structural and macroeconomic reforms, which are embodied in the abovementioned memorandum of understanding, which we reject.
in writing. - with this report we aim to reach agreement on the procedure for providing macro-financial assistance (mfa) to georgia (eur 46 million) to support the country's economic stabilisation process and cover its balance of payments needs. there were differences between the council and parliament on how the memorandum of understanding, which covers economic policy and the financial conditions to which the amf is subject, should be adopted. parliament believes that this should be done through the advisory procedure as proposed by the commission, but the council believes that the examination procedure would be more appropriate. we have managed to find a common solution which consists in including the elements of the virtual compromise reached on the kasak dossier in a joint declaration which would be supported by parliament and the council and which would be adopted together with the decision on the amf to georgia which was agreed on the night of the conciliation. i think that is a good solution, hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council decision granting additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia. following the outcome of the vote at second reading on 11 december 2012, and given the desire to conclude the conciliation as soon as possible, the constituent meeting of the ep delegation to the conciliation committee took place on 5 february 2013 in strasbourg. the ep delegation decided to give a mandate to the ep negotiating team to enter into negotiations with the council. negotiations resulted in an agreement that the advisory committee procedure would be applied to macro-financial assistance up to eur 90 million and that the examination procedure would be used for higher amounts.
in writing. − the main objective of this dossier was to reach agreement on the procedure for providing additional macro-financial assistance (mfa) to georgia amounting to eur 46 million to support the country's economic stabilisation process and balance of payments needs. the new amf procedure will support the government's economic reform agenda aimed at reducing the financial vulnerability still facing the economy, as well as supporting short-term reform measures aimed at achieving a more sustainable balance of payments and fiscal position in the medium term. the assistance shall also promote economic and financial integration into the european union, in particular by exploiting the potential offered by the future association agreement with a view to the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the two parties.
in writing. − the main objective of this report was to agree on the procedure for providing macro-financial assistance (mfa) to georgia in order to support the country's economic stabilisation process and cover its balance of payments needs. parliament and the council have looked for ways to give this agreement a more formal status in the context of the conciliation procedure on the amf to georgia, taking into account the commission's concerns. the other basic elements of the commitment are an agreement on a stricter wording regarding the disbursement of assistance and the inclusion of a recital in the mfa decision to georgia, clarifying that the use of the advisory committee procedure is confirmed as a general rule for assistance up to a threshold of eur 90 million. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − i welcome this report, stressing that as part of the overall union strategy to combat organised crime, increase the resilience of computer networks, protect critical information infrastructures and data protection, this directive should aim to approximate the criminal law provisions of the member states relating to attacks against information systems and to improve cooperation between judicial and other competent authorities, in particular the police, other specialised law enforcement services of the member states, the commission, eurojust, europol, the national and union emergency response teams and the european network and information security agency, with a view to enabling a common and comprehensive approach by the union.
in writing. - cybercrime is a problem that we need to tackle with the utmost urgency. i welcome the inclusion of a new aggravating factor for offences committed through the misuse of personal data, as this is one of the most common forms of cyberattack today. this report is important for the defence of the interests of the european union and its citizens.
in writing. − information systems have become an essential element for political, social and economic interaction in the union, and it is therefore necessary to ensure the proper functioning and security of these systems in the union, within an effective and comprehensive framework of measures to prevent and combat cybercrime. recent attacks in europe have brought attention to the various emerging threats, in particular the occurrence of simultaneous massive attacks against information systems and the increased use of so-called botnets for criminal purposes. this directive should therefore replace the 2005 framework decision by establishing common minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions in this area (covering the various consecutive stages of the criminal offence), such as unlawful access to information systems, unlawful interference with the system or data and unlawful interception of communications. it should also allow for enhanced cooperation between national authorities and relevant community agencies, such as eurojust, europol and the european cybercrime centre and enisa. it is imperative that the 12 member states that have not yet ratified the convention on cybercrime, which provides a coherent legal framework covering the various aspects of crime, do so as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the application of heavier penalties to those responsible for cyber attacks. the new rules, already agreed with national governments, should help to better prevent cybercrime and strengthen police and judicial cooperation in this area.
in writing. − in recent years, our dependence on information systems has increased exponentially, making us increasingly vulnerable to cyberattacks, which are particularly serious when they target institutional systems and businesses. recent attacks have exposed the vulnerability of institutions and networks that we would have considered to be properly protected, revealing the need for strategies that ensure cybersecurity. the use of all these technologies, which are becoming increasingly essential for institutions, businesses and citizens, depends to a large extent on the implementation of a clear strategy to ensure that these information infrastructures are secure.
in writing. - the increasing use of information systems has given rise to increased concern among citizens, who are only now beginning to realise the real extent of the problem. many of us who use the internet every day are not aware of how our data, many of it personal, is flowing along the information highways. cases like julian assange (wikileaks) and snowden show how even information considered secret or confidential can eventually be leaked. the espionage continues and in more pronounced ways than we can imagine, and often by those we consider friends. the confidence of citizens is seriously shaken and it is urgent that the authorities responsible take measures to protect personal data. i voted in favour of the report by mrs monika hohlmeier on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on attacks against information systems and repealing council framework decision 2005/222/jha, because we need a set of minimum criminal rules which, by punishing these violations, prevent these attacks. because it is an international crime, it is necessary for member states to strengthen their cooperation with interpol.
in writing. - in addition to the aspects of harmonisation, the application of identical regimes to often different legal realities and cultures, the imposition of mandatory criminal sanctions and the disconnection of democratic participation in the definition of legislation and its implementation, this directive reflects a purely criminalising view of this phenomenon. the way forward could have been different, by relying on preventive policies in the member states instead of repressive methods. instead, this legislation fails to protect the ordinary user and facilitates its criminalisation, as there is a wide variety of imprecise definitions that can risk extending the scope of application to ordinary users. secondly, it does not advocate the responsibility of the producers and operators of large it systems, who should be obliged to take measures to protect the reliability of the systems and to ensure the protection of the rights and guarantees of the users.
in writing. − this proposal aims to replace council framework decision 2005/222/jha of 24 february 2005 on attacks against information systems. this framework decision aimed to strengthen cooperation between judicial and other competent authorities, including police authorities and other specialised law enforcement services in the member states, by approximating their criminal law provisions on attacks against information systems, introducing eu legislation to crack down on offences such as unlawful access to information systems, unlawful interference with the system and unlawful interference with data, as well as specific provisions on the liability of legal persons, jurisdiction and exchange of information.
in writing. - agreeing with the need for better exchange of information related to cybersecurity between member states in the context of growing concerns about potential attacks against information systems, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the proper functioning and security of information systems in the union are vital for the development of the internal market and of a competitive and innovative economy and an adequate level of protection of these systems should therefore be ensured. on 24 february 2005, eu member states reached agreement on this matter and council framework decision 2005/222/jha was adopted. on 14 july 2008, the commission published a report on the application of that framework decision, noting that new threats had emerged since its adoption and that they needed to be addressed. in particular, the emergence of simultaneous large-scale attacks against information systems and the increased criminal use of so-called botnets should be addressed in an appropriate and effective manner. taking into account the need to address these and other gaps, the commission has moved forward with this proposal for a directive, which replaces framework decision 2005/222/jha, introducing cyber-attack adjustments in order to subject attacks against information systems in all member states to effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions and to improve and encourage cooperation between judicial and other competent authorities in this field. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the protection of public and private information systems is becoming increasingly difficult to ensure, as there is a trend towards an increase in the number of cyberattacks, with increasingly sophisticated and complex methods. the proposal for a directive aims to introduce criminal sanctions for the so-called botnet attack. in addition to the imposition of criminal penalties, this directive also establishes a more preventive approach. i am in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that european legislation evolves in line with society.
in writing. - in addition to the aspects of harmonisation, the application of identical regimes to often different legal realities and cultures, the imposition of mandatory criminal sanctions and the disconnection of democratic participation in the definition of legislation and its implementation, this directive reflects a purely criminalising view of this phenomenon. the way forward could have been different, by relying on preventive policies in the member states instead of repressive methods. instead, this legislation fails to protect the ordinary user and facilitates its criminalisation, as there is a wide variety of imprecise definitions that can risk extending the scope of application to ordinary users. secondly, it does not advocate the responsibility of the producers and operators of large it systems, who should be obliged to take measures to protect the reliability of the systems and to ensure the protection of the rights and guarantees of the users.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that data protection reform is underway at eu level through the revision of directive 95/46/ec and its replacement by the proposed general data protection regulation and data protection directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data. however, i express serious concerns, while reiterating my continued support for transatlantic efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime, with regard to prism and other similar programmes, as, if the information currently available is confirmed, it may involve a serious breach of the fundamental right to privacy and data protection of eu citizens and residents, as well as the right to private and family life, confidentiality of communications, the presumption of innocence, freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom of enterprise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on alleged spying by us authorities on the offices of eu institutions and on the emails and phone calls of officials. this kind of practice is completely unacceptable and, if confirmed, could seriously damage good transatlantic relations.
in writing. − in the field of the fight against terrorism and the prevention of organised crime, international judicial cooperation and transatlantic cooperation are essential, which in many cases involves the transfer of personal data, which should be carried out in accordance with the applicable legal rules. however, recent news reports have highlighted possible violations of the fundamental right to privacy and data protection of eu citizens and residents, as well as the right to private and family life, confidentiality of communications, presumption of innocence, freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom to conduct a business by nsa surveillance programs. these allegations, because of their fundamental importance, must be fully investigated and explained by the us authorities.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (4), replacing the proposals from the epp, s&d and alde political groups, concerns the surveillance programme of the united states national security agency, the surveillance bodies in several member states and their impact on the privacy of citizens of the european union. many internet users are not aware of how their data, many of it personal, is flowing along the information highways. the espionage continues and in more pronounced ways than we can imagine and often by those we consider friends. cases such as julian assange (wikileaks) and snowden show the extent to which information considered secret or confidential can eventually be disclosed and give this matter relevance. citizens are very concerned about the lack of protection of their private sphere. i voted in favour of this resolution because it draws attention to the international security - or lack thereof - of internet networks, since the fight against terrorism cannot be used as an excuse for citizens' breaches of their right to privacy.
in writing. the european parliament has been forced to take a stand on the report by the european parliament on the european union's relations with the countries of central and eastern europe. the european union has been accused of spying by the us authorities. its true meaning will only be known in the times to come. for now, inflammatory statements of indignation aside, the servility shown by the authorities of france, italy, spain and portugal in the case of the plane of bolivian president evo morales is illustrative of the posture of subservience to the us that continues to prevail on this side of the atlantic. will there be a serious follow-up to the calls for a suspension of the passenger name record (pnr) and terrorist financing tracking programme (tftp) agreements? are these positions to be seriously considered when, at the same time, the same majority expresses its support for the transatlantic efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime, that is, an almost unconditional support for the set of legal and political tools that fuel the spying, the arrest, the transport, the torture and the death of millions? many questions remain...
in writing. the eu has always supported transatlantic efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime. the controversy over prism and other similar programmes has again called into question the means of fighting this fight. although, if the information currently available is confirmed, these means may be a serious violation of the fundamental right to privacy and data protection of eu citizens and residents, as well as the right to private and family life, confidentiality of communications, the presumption of innocence, freedom of expression, freedom of information and freedom of enterprise, i believe that the fight against terrorism and the prevention of new and serious attacks must always be in the first place.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on the surveillance programme of the us national security agency, surveillance bodies in various member states and their impact on eu citizens' privacy, in which the european parliament mandates its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to conduct an in-depth inquiry into the matter, in collaboration with national parliaments and the eu-us expert group, and to report the results by the end of the year by: (a) collecting all relevant information and evidence from eu and us sources (finding facts); (b) investigating the alleged surveillance activities of us authorities as well as those carried out by certain member states (identifying liability); and (c) assessing the impact of surveillance programmes on the fundamental rights of eu citizens.
in writing. − this report instructs the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to draw up a study on the impact on the privacy of european union citizens of the surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and the intelligence services of several member states. the results are to be communicated by the end of the year and will be achieved in collaboration with national parliaments and the eu-us expert group. taking into account article 7 of the tfeu, which provides for the right of citizens to respect for their private and family life, their home and their communications, and also taking into account article 27 of the vienna convention on diplomatic relations, which obliges the accredited state to allow and protect the free communication of the diplomatic mission of the accredited state, parliament, while reiterating its support for transatlantic efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime, expresses serious concern at the recent revelations about these surveillance programmes, which, if confirmed, could imply a breach by member states of the fundamental right of eu citizens to privacy and data protection, as well as a breach by the united states of the convention.
in writing. - the revelations by edward snowden constitute a situation of extreme gravity. we now know that, in addition to the millions of european citizens who are spied on and whose data is transferred to the united states under the pretext of the fight against terrorism, the european institutions (commission, council and parliament) are also the target of espionage by that friendly country. the council and the commission have so far been timid and lax in their requests for explanations. i abstained on the joint resolution because, although it condemns the large-scale espionage to which europeans are being subjected, there was no courage to do the only thing that was necessary: to suspend immediately the negotiations on the transatlantic free trade agreement until the situation was clarified and the dismantling of the espionage network was guaranteed. europe, once again, is kneeling before the united states.
in writing. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a full part in the fight against terrorism. the security which the states must guarantee to their citizens must be accompanied by the protection of the fundamental rights of the citizens. such surveillance should be carried out by a limited number of competent authorities and data collection should only be carried out in the event of very serious suspicions. for these reasons, i think it is important that an inquiry into this issue be launched in the libe committee, in collaboration with the national parliaments and the us and eu expert group. finally, i would stress that it is essential that the free trade agreement between the united states and the european union guarantees the protection of the data of european and american citizens.
in writing. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a full role in the fight against terrorism. will the arrests or even condemnations voiced by the majority of the ep in relation to the allegation of espionage by the american authorities be followed up seriously? will there be any serious follow-up to the demands for the eventual suspension of the agreements on passenger identification registers (pnr) and the terrorist financing tracing programme (tftp), or for data protection not to be compromised in the context of the negotiations on the free trade agreement with the usa? are these positions to be seriously considered when, at the same time, the same majority expresses its support for the transatlantic efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime, that is, almost unconditional support for the set of legal and political tools that fuel the spying, arrest, transport, torture and death of millions of people in countries determined by us, nato and eu interests? the doubts remain but the record of whitewashing and acquiescence of the majority of the ep to us actions on this and other issues did not indicate a serious follow-up.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by asking european political parties to nominate their candidates for the presidency of the commission sufficiently in advance of the date of the elections, so that they can prepare an effective campaign at european level and focused on the european issues included in the party platform as well as in the programme of their candidates for the presidency of the commission. i also recommend that member states take all necessary steps to ensure that the agreed measures are effectively implemented in order to support citizens who wish to vote or stand for election in states other than their own. finally, and in view of the high abstention rate in the previous european elections and the period of political and economic crisis in the european union, i urge the member states to organise a public campaign to encourage citizens to take part in the elections in order to fight against the fall in the turnout.
in writing. - i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have contributed to the final outcome of this report. i welcome the closer link between national sovereignty and european sovereignty, between national parliaments and the european parliament, because these elections allow europeans to express their sovereignty by indicating their membership of europe. i would like to highlight the possibility of nominating a candidate for president of the commission who, although not on the ballot, contributes to increasing the european debate and the sense of european integration.
in writing. − next year will see the first elections since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which has strengthened the democratic legitimacy of the eu decision-making process, giving more powers to the ep and consolidating its role as co-legislator, and at the same time has sought to bring the citizens of the union closer together, notably through the introduction of the citizens' initiative. increasing transparency and deepening debate across the eu is essential to encourage and facilitate citizen participation in the 2014 european elections. according to eurobarometer data, more than 80% of european citizens say they would be more motivated to vote if they were given more information about the programmes and objectives of candidates and parties, the impact of the eu on their lives and the elections themselves. i support the recommendations that candidates for the ep and candidates for the presidency of the commission should be appointed sufficiently in advance to enable them to prepare a vigorous and effective campaign, which includes a european dimension in politics. it is necessary to increase citizens' awareness by keeping them informed before and during the election campaign, in particular through information campaigns, the use of airtime and the organisation of public debates, giving citizens the opportunity to make their voices and concerns heard.
in writing. − the low turnout at the european elections suggests that ways of improving the organisation of the elections and of promoting greater popular interest and participation in the elections should be assessed and decided upon. without the cooperation of all the political actors this improvement will not be possible. among these, the crucial role of political parties is growing, which should try to resist the temptation to make the european elections another opportunity to discuss essentially national politics and focus on the undeniable reality that european politics today does not just exist as it should be understood, its importance and a perspective of full participation in its conduct. i hope that the next elections will be a reversal of the negative trend we have seen and that the european elections will be a moment par excellence for the affirmation of a european public and political space in which everyone is invited and called upon to participate.
in writing. - next year, another election will take place to elect the new european parliament. as we know, the european elections are the ones which motivate citizens the least, and therefore have the lowest turnout. this fact leads eurosceptics to claim that this experiment in transnational democracy is a failure. as 2014 marks the start of a new cycle with a new multiannual financial framework, we must work to ensure that the elections are not seen as a failure. to reverse this situation, parties must be deeply involved in campaigns to clarify their electoral programmes. we must fight for our ideas for the development of the european union (eu) and explain the commission's options for what the eu should do. the aim is to bring the eu closer to citizens so that they feel that what the european parliament (ep) approves, despite being based in brussels and meeting in strasbourg, affects them more than they might think. i therefore welcome the practical arrangements for the 2014 european elections, in particular as regards the election of the ep president, whose campaign can bring a more interesting and motivating political debate.
in writing. - the ruling classes are using the eu crisis to try to legitimize the path of recession and destruction, to perpetuate the policies that are at its origin and to deepen its anti-democratic character. the next elections to the european parliament are part of this process. the formula chosen is: - a mystification of what is really at stake in these elections; concealing the fact that this is a process of choosing, in each country, the parties, their programmes and their candidates, adding to it the suffrage character of the candidate of each european party for the presidency of the european commission (ec); - to divert the debate from clarifying the proposals and alternatives of each party, on the pretext of promoting what they call a real debate at eu level, reproducing at european level the national farce of the election of the prime minister; - to impose a debate between supposed european parties, to legitimize these supranational structures, in what will also be an alleged suffrage of these same parties (created by the eu, subject to respect for its operating rules and programme and dependent on its funding), all this at a time when the break with the eu, its policies and orientations, is a fundamental condition for the emancipation of the peoples and the construction of another europe. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − the 2014 european elections will be the first since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. they will be of great importance and, as a result, the european union is taking important steps towards a genuine economic and monetary union, of which democratic legitimacy is a cornerstone. the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the union's democratic foundations. it reinforces the role of the eu citizen as a political actor in the eu, establishing a strong link between citizens, the exercise of their political rights and the democratic life of the union. the role of the european parliament as the union's representative democratic assembly was underlined by the treaty of lisbon. moreover, by introducing the citizens' initiative, the lisbon treaty allows eu citizens to participate more directly and fully in the democratic life of the union. we will make these elections the most competitive and the most identifiable for european citizens with their representatives in the european institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the duff report on practical measures to improve the organisation of the 2014 european parliament elections, which i have been working on as s&d group shadow rapporteur, because it sets out a set of measures which, if adopted, will be a strong impetus for the creation of a genuine parliamentary democracy in the eu by next year's elections. the presentation by european political parties of their candidates for president of the european commission and a political programme for the government of the union, the holding of public debates between the candidates for president of the commission to discuss political programmes, and the fact that ballot papers in european elections now include the identification of european political parties together with the corresponding national parties are measures which make a decisive contribution to the europeanisation of european elections. the european elections will be truly european, not only because they will be contested on the basis of european political agendas and with the involvement of european political parties, but also because they will be decisive for the choice of the european government. and this is an essential condition for strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the eu project in the eyes of the european people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on improving the organisation of the 2014 european parliament elections, which calls on all political parties at all levels to adopt democratic and transparent procedures for the selection of their candidates for the elections to the european parliament and for the presidency of the commission.
in writing. − at a time of crisis such as the one europe is currently experiencing, when it is necessary to move towards deeper integration, it is essential that the european institutions, and in particular the european parliament, strengthen their democratic legitimacy. to this end, it is essential that we create the conditions for european citizens to be able to participate actively and in an informed way in the political life of the union. the measures advocated here, which i was very keen to see adopted at afco, will certainly contribute to creating a genuine european political awareness, making the 2014 elections more transparent and more european: increasing the visibility of european political parties, the nomination by european political parties of their candidates for the presidency of the commission, the timely dissemination by national parties of their lists of candidates and the encouragement of the participation in the electoral process of european citizens of other member states. these are all proposals which i am sure will increase the turnout in the european elections and help to raise citizens' awareness of specifically european issues. i therefore welcome their approval.
in writing. − this own-initiative report contains a set of recommendations to be made to both member states and european political parties regarding the upcoming 2014 european parliament elections. i voted against proposals to dictate to political parties how to choose their candidates for the ep or for the commission presidency. i abstained in the final vote because, although some of the recommendations allow for a deeper debate on the various policy options at european level, there is a clear attempt to convey the message that this is a direct election of the president of the commission, which is not true.
in writing. − the next european elections have been brought forward to 22-25 may 2014 in order to facilitate the appointment of the new college of commissioners who will take office as soon as possible. i think it is extremely positive that the european political parties have already presented their candidates for president of the european commission and that these should be the subject of a fruitful debate in the various member states. i would also like to stress the positive aspect of the fact that the names of the political parties and their logos appear on the ballot paper. finally, i urge the european authorities and political parties to develop a broad european campaign to promote citizens' rights and the importance of voting in the next european elections, thereby increasing the level of participation of the 500 million europeans.
in writing. - the ruling classes are using the eu crisis to try to legitimize the recession and destruction and to deepen their anti-democratic character. the next elections to the european parliament are part of this process. it is not intended to hide the fact that this is a process of selecting, in each country, the parties, their programmes and their candidates, and that the candidate of each european party for the presidency of the european commission is a suffragette; the aim is to impose a debate between supposed european parties, to legitimize these supranational structures, and to impose a supposed suffrage for these same parties (created by the eu, subject to compliance with its operating rules and programme and dependent on its funding). we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that events such as the arab spring in the middle east and north africa have once again laid bare the problematic relationship between democratisation and human rights issues, which constitutes a liability when arms are traded with these countries, just as the events of the arab spring have once again demonstrated the absolute necessity and importance of the common position and its eight criteria, as well as of wider international agreements such as the arms trade treaty. i believe that a proactive approach should allow future initiatives and reports to draw on these lessons, especially when it comes to the spread of arms sold to non-state actors, as in the case of libya, and the possibility of direct transfers to rebels, as in the case of syria. in this context, i welcome the fact that the european union has a single, legally binding international framework capable of improving the control of arms exports, particularly to regions in crisis and to countries with a poor human rights record.
in writing. − arms exports and transfers have repercussions on human security, human rights, democracy, good governance and socioeconomic development. for this reason, it is important to strengthen the policy of control of exports of eu military technology and equipment, which should be integrated into a transparent, effective and commonly accepted and defined arms control system. the defence industry remains an important sector both industrially and in terms of job creation in the european union. the criteria of the common position must also be taken into account in the process of restructuring the european defence industry, which is essential for small and medium-sized enterprises, which create jobs. the developing countries remain the main target of arms sales abroad by their suppliers. events such as the arab spring in the middle east and north africa have once again laid bare the problematic relationship between democratization and human rights issues, which is a liability when trading arms with these countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it encourages the participation of european and non-european countries in the arms export control system, on the basis of the common position and the arms trade treaty. although the eu is the only union of states worldwide to have a single, legally binding international framework in this area, it remains a matter of concern that the eight criteria of the common position are not being interpreted and applied consistently in the member states.
in writing. - the control of exported arms is particularly complex because of the speed of transport and communications we are experiencing today and the increased portability and lethality of many of the weapons produced. this difficulty should not prevent the european union from seeking to control the destination and use of arms it exports and from doing so in a serious and rigorous manner, without this being a substitute for the specific competences of each member state in this respect. the particular sensitivity of this market and the implications for international security and stability call for caution and responsibility when exporting and for the ability to monitor the use and disposal of exported arms. these tasks are not easy and, despite the restrictive nature of the legislation in force, they are prone to neglect. it is the responsibility of the union and its member states to meet and live up to the standards of standards it has set.
in writing. - the export of arms is a matter which divides politicians and citizens. we all want to see the end of guns for the sake of peace. but the truth is that weapons often have a deterrent effect. at the level of the european union and other arms exporting countries , this is a multi-million euro business and employs millions of workers. if we cannot stop the international trade in arms - and we also know that they often end up where they should not - we must regulate this sector in a way that makes it more responsible and properly controlled. weapons are not commodities like other commodities, and they require risk assessment and monitoring of their progress. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on arms exports, and more specifically the implementation of council common position 2008/944/cfsp, as it clarifies and improves the rules of this trade by standardising procedures at the level of the 28 member states. the eu should assess arms exports outside the eu and ensure that they do not risk human rights violations or be used to promote regional instability.
in writing. - the control of arms exports is of the utmost importance. the establishment of legal instruments can be of the greatest benefit. the arms trade, and in particular its export, is still the most profitable business for the military-industrial complex and its existence is a condition that feeds the trafficking whose profits continue to flow through tax havens for their laundering. as the resolution endorsed by our group advocated, there is a need for greater transparency in the registration of arms exports and public knowledge of them, with regular information on licences issued by each member state, the goods, the category, the total number of products and the end user, as well as the need for member states to assess the risks of corruption before issuing an export licence. it is also of the utmost importance that more effective political and democratic control of these processes be put in place. this resolution follows a difficult procedure in a specialised committee, which did not allow the adoption of a report drawn up by a member of our group. the whole process and the result of the vote, with the rejection of the first resolution voted, shows that for the majority of this parliament the military-industrial complex is still in charge.
in writing. − the s&d group was forced to abstain in today’s vote on the motion for a resolution on arms exports put forth by the right-wing aisle of parliament. the motion presented by the s&d group, together with the greens and gue, was rejected by the right-wing ppe, alde and ecr because these groups, despite verbally committing to a transparent and accountable arms control regime, refrain from demanding a more compelling implementation, which is what the s&d, greens and gue called for in a joint motion voted down today. by failing to call for a more demanding regime, the right-wing frustrates the implementation of not only the 2008 council common position on arms exports but also the foundational european principles and values, and is undoubtedly invalidating the eu’s efforts in conflict resolution, peacebuilding, the rule of law and human rights in the world. the time has come for member states and the eu council to take responsibility for arms deals and that is why the s&d group decided to abstain in today’s vote.
in writing. − the european union must have a single, legally binding international framework capable of improving arms export control, particularly for crisis regions and countries with a poor human rights record. however, in addition to the participation of european countries, third countries must also be represented in the arms export control system established on the basis of the common position. we must bear in mind that the eight criteria of the common position are interpreted and applied with varying degrees of rigour in the member states of the union, and that a more uniform interpretation and application of the common position and all the commitments deriving from it is therefore necessary. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on arms exports, which calls on the commission and the member states to implement the eu's commitments to combat the illicit accumulation and trafficking of small arms and light weapons (salw) and their ammunition, and recalls that these commitments are aimed at assisting third countries in stockpile management and similar efforts to control salw and ensure the regular transfer of military goods, in order to prevent member states from supplying countries from which weapons originate for abusive uses.
in writing. − the implementation of council common position 2008/944/cfsp on the european union's contribution to combating the accumulation and proliferation of small arms and light weapons ensures minimum standards for member states in arms control. these provisions are intended to regulate the transfer of military goods, i.e. arms exports, in order to prevent supplies to countries where they give rise to abusive uses. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide monitoring mechanism for the implementation of the common position, which would be based on the principle of the free movement of goods and services, and would be based on the principle of the free movement of persons. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the european union now has a single, legally binding international framework capable of improving arms export control, particularly for crisis regions and countries with a poor human rights record. parliament welcomed the participation of european and non-european countries in the arms export control system and the conclusion of the arms trade treaty. however, i do not consider the request made in this joint motion for a resolution for an additional criterion to the eight already in place to be relevant and have therefore voted against the document.
in writing. - we consider that the control of arms exports is of the greatest importance and that the establishment of legal instruments can be of the greatest benefit. the arms trade, and in particular its export, is still the most profitable business for the military-industrial complex and its existence is a condition that fuels trafficking - the profits of which continue to flow through tax havens for laundering. as the resolution endorsed by our group advocated, there is a need for greater transparency in the registration of arms exports and public knowledge of them, with regular information on licences issued by each member state, the goods, the category, the total number of products and the end user, as well as the need for member states to assess the risks of corruption before issuing an export licence. it is also of the utmost importance to ensure that these processes are subject to more effective political and democratic control, which means respecting and valuing the sovereignty of the institutions of each country and their participation and control in these processes.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution, welcoming the opening of negotiations on a trade in services agreement and the eu's participation in these talks from the outset in order to promote its interests and defend its views on the format and structure of the agreement. i regret, however, that the council has given a mandate without taking account of the opinion of the european parliament. i believe that the critical mass has not been reached to extend the benefits of this future agreement on trade in services to all wto members and that therefore the most favoured nation clause of the gats should not apply to it. i also believe that keeping open the possibility for other countries, including emerging economies, to participate in these negotiations should not reduce the level of ambition of the agreement, since only a high level of liberalization and convergence of disciplines will be able to convince these countries to join the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it important to include the eu in the negotiations on a trade in services agreement in the wto in order to promote its interests and defend its views on the format and structure of the document. it is important that this agreement safeguards and differentiates services of general interest, as they provide vital safety nets for citizens and promote social cohesion at municipal, regional, national and eu level.
in writing. − on 15 february 2013, the european commission proposed to the council to open negotiations for a new international agreement on trade in services. the commission received a mandate to take part in the multilateral agreement on services on 18 march. currently, in addition to the eu and its 27 member states, 20 other wto members have agreed to take part in the negotiations. all service sectors will potentially be covered by this agreement. i agree with this opening of negotiations and i hope that this future agreement will bring benefits to the european economy and will lead to an increase in employment levels within the union.
in writing. the motion for a resolution tabled by mr vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade, following a statement by the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2), concerns the opening of negotiations on a multilateral agreement on services. services (e-commerce, tourism, construction, financial and cultural services, etc.) are the key sector of the european economy. they account for the largest number of jobs and more than half of our exports. one aspect to be taken into account is the need for trade liberalisation which can benefit our economy, although there are sectors such as water, energy, waste collection, among others, which are considered basic services and whose privatisation must be carefully considered. the opening up of the services market is a positive step, but it must be done with respect for all those involved. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it seeks to negotiate an ambitious agreement to enable the services sector to join the world trade organisation (wto). the european parliament, by adopting this resolution, takes another step towards aligning the eu's trade policy.
in writing. the resolution follows the opening of negotiations on an agreement on trade in services. it is argued that the eu plays an important role in trade in services as the world's largest exporter of services. it considered that all initiatives relating to this agreement should be properly framed within the wto framework and regretted that trade in services had been neglected by the doha round. it regrets that the brics countries are not part of these negotiations, because they are markets where trade and investment in services are growing and where obstacles, particularly to foreign investment, are more significant. it is moving with objectives that the commission should take into account when negotiating market access commitments: promoting an ambitious agenda for eu offending interests, notably in business services, ict services, financial and legal services, e-commerce, maritime and air transport services, environmental services, tourism and construction. the intentions of those who support this resolution are thus crystal clear: to defend the offensive interests of big business against the interests of the people. we are facing the challenge of the tedious and repetitive neoliberal argument about the wonders of free trade. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i believe that the multilateral trading system, embodied in the wto, remains the most effective framework for achieving open and fair trade worldwide. i believe that we should give greater importance to services, as they are one of the engines of the european economy in the 21st century, increasingly important for job creation and economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations for a multilateral agreement on services. the resolution stresses that the eu negotiating mandate was proposed without an impact assessment. the european parliament considers it essential that an impact assessment be carried out and calls on the commission to put into practice its intention to carry out a sustainability impact assessment and to consult relevant stakeholders on social, environmental and other concerns. it also called for the evaluation to be published in order to take account of its conclusions in the negotiations.
in writing. − the multilateral agreement on services, which is part of the wto, aims to develop multilateral rules to ensure that investment is conducted in a more systematic and uniform way between the contracting states. however, although the general agreement on trade in services (gats) has been amended by 129 wto members, most have not made the commitments envisaged. recognising the growing importance of trade in services for the development of the world economy in general and of the european union in particular, the commission proposed a negotiating mandate, adopted by the council, to promote the interests and defend the eu's views. the report also calls for the commission to set clear objectives when negotiating market access commitments. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because the agreement that is being sought will have the consequence of deregulating public services in europe, leading to privatisation, increased costs and lower quality of services provided, and subsequently to a decrease in accessibility to them by those who need them most.
in writing. - i believe that the multilateral trading system, embodied in the wto, remains the most effective framework for achieving open and fair trade worldwide. however, i acknowledge that new bilateral and multilateral initiatives were needed to boost trade negotiations in geneva, due to the impasse following the 8th wto ministerial conference in december 2011. however, it must be stressed that all initiatives must remain within the wto framework, which is why the future agreement on trade in services must be multilateralised. this agreement should follow the format and structure of the gats, including the notion of positive listing of commitments, and take up the gats's definitions, principles and core standards on treatment, market access and national disciplines. for the reasons i have mentioned, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by pointing out that the norwegian government proposed these measures without consulting its eu counterparts beforehand, as would have been appropriate in the context of the strong bilateral relations that exist. i therefore question the economic logic behind these measures, which may result in a reduction in trade, harming all parties involved, in particular norwegian consumers and, in the long term, also norwegian farmers. i therefore call on the commission to assess the potential negative effects of the tariff increase on eu exporters and farmers and i urge the norwegian government and parliament to withdraw the measures. finally, i ask the commission to specify the measures it intends to take in the event that norway refuses to reconsider its decision, in particular to protect, if necessary, employment and production in the agricultural sector of the union.
in writing. − the eea agreement lays the foundation for norway's equal access to the internal market. economic and political relations between the european union and norway are excellent. the bilateral agreement in force since january 2012 renewed the preferential, reciprocal and mutually beneficial legal framework for the granting of trade preferences for agricultural products, including meat and dairy products. through this agreement, the european union and the kingdom of norway have extended the mutual liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, granting duty-free access, establishing tariff quotas and reducing import duties for a wide range of agricultural products. the indicators of economic growth, employment and inflation show no sign of any negative impact of the global economic or financial crisis on the norwegian economy. i believe that negotiations should be opened with the norwegian authorities in order to find a mutually satisfactory solution for the import/export of agricultural products. i hope that norway will remain an integral part of the internal market and will not resort to further disintegrating and unilateral measures.
in writing. - while it is true that norway does not join the european union of its own accord, it is also true that the union has very close links with norway in a wide range of areas, including trade. i therefore regret that, instead of opening up even more to a close relationship with the union, norway has chosen to unilaterally increase customs duties on agricultural products. i hope that this situation can be reversed and that trade in agricultural products can flow more freely and mutually beneficial.
in writing. − norway is a country with a trade surplus which has signed a preferential agreement for customs goods so as not to impede trade flows between the european union and norway. however, as of 1 january 2013, it introduced a set of protectionist measures by imposing customs duties on imports of food products such as cheese and sheep and beef. this is not a new situation, for it has done the same with fish and oil. given the strong relations between norway and the european union and the fact that the eu is norway's main trading partner, we are obliged to denounce these protectionist measures, especially since the parties have committed themselves to a progressive liberalisation of trade. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, tabled following a question with oral answer by mr vital moreira and mr christofer fjellner, because the eu was not consulted beforehand on these measures, which not only violate international law but also cast a shadow over relations between norway and the eu at a time when the review of the existing agreement, scheduled for next year, is approaching.
in writing. − the agreement on the european economic area (eea) lays the foundations for norway's access to the internal market by providing for a gradual liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. in 2012, a bilateral agreement between the eu and norway renewed the granting of trade preferences for agricultural products, including dairy products and meat. in january 2013, norway increased customs duties to a level considered by this resolution to be very high, affecting eu exporters of certain types of cheese, sheepmeat and beef, and introduced a new import duty on hydrangeas. the resolution criticises the protectionist measures implemented by norway, which it considers harmful to trade, accusing norway of violating the letter and spirit of the bilateral agreement. it called on the commission to enter into negotiations with norway immediately in order to find a mutually satisfactory solution and to specify the measures it intends to take in the event of norway's refusal to reconsider its decision. the fundamentalists of free and unregulated trade do not accept that a country sovereignly adopts the measures it deems necessary to regulate trade and defend specific productive sectors. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − as a member of the european economic area (eea), norway benefits from the internal market, but agriculture and fisheries are excluded from free movement under the 1992 agreement on the european economic area. the latest agreement between the kingdom of norway and the european community on the basis of article 19 of the eea agreement entered into force in july 2003. between march 2008 and january 2010, further negotiations took place, culminating in the current draft agreement, which will increase trade in agricultural products between the eu and norway. i cannot therefore agree with norway's unilateral decision to oblige european exporters of certain types of cheese and sheep and beef to pay ad valorem customs duties of 277%, 429% and 344% respectively on the norwegian market as from 1 january 2013, given that this measure was preceded by the introduction of a new import duty of 72% on hydrangeas. although these measures are authorised by the world trade organisation list for norway, they violate the letter and spirit of the bilateral agreement. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the increase of norwegian customs duties on agricultural products, in which the commission is asked to continue negotiations with the norwegian authorities in order to find a mutually satisfactory solution for the import/export of agricultural products.
in writing. − the present motion for a resolution questions the logic behind the measures imposed by the norwegian government with the introduction of new, protectionist and trade-damaging customs duties between the eu and norway, which are in clear breach of the letter and spirit of the bilateral agreement in force since january 2012. given that recent socioeconomic indicators deny any sign of a slowdown in the norwegian economy, we conclude that the justification for these customs measures proposed by the kingdom of norway does not lie in the current crisis context. however, it would be expected that the norwegian government, within the framework of existing bilateral relations, would consult the member states in advance to justify the envisaged customs duties, even before they were applied. the norwegian government and parliament are therefore urged to lift the tariff quotas as of this date, in the hope that the political bodies involved will not resort to unilateral measures in the future.
in writing. − whereas, in accordance with article 19 of the eea agreement, the contracting parties undertake to pursue their efforts to achieve a progressive liberalisation of trade in agricultural products and whereas the bilateral agreement in force since january 2012 renewed the preferential, reciprocal and mutually advantageous legal framework for the granting of trade preferences for agricultural products, including meat and dairy products, the european parliament regrets the recent measures imposed by the norwegian government, which it considers to be protectionist and trade-damaging and which constitute a clear breach of the letter and spirit of the bilateral agreement; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' and to extend the scope of the term 'competition' to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the agreement on the european economic area (eea) lays the foundation for norway's equal access to the internal market. article 19 of the eea agreement states that the contracting parties undertake to pursue their efforts to achieve a progressive liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. in 2012, a bilateral agreement between the eu and norway renewed the granting of trade preferences for agricultural products, including dairy products and meat. however, in january 2013, norway increased the customs duties to a very high amount, affecting eu exporters of certain types of cheese, lamb and beef. this resolution criticises the protectionist measures implemented by norway. we believe that countries should be sovereign in deciding such matters.
in writing. − i support this report, considering that it is essential to exploit the full potential of the digital single market in order to make the eu a more competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, to the benefit of both its citizens and its businesses; and considering that the eu must act now to maintain its competitive advantage worldwide, particularly in high-growth sectors such as the internet platform and the it applications industry. in my view, ubiquitous connectivity, based on unimpeded access to broadband and high-speed internet networks, universal and equitable access to internet services for all citizens and the provision of spectrum for wireless broadband services, is an essential prerequisite for the development of the digital single market. furthermore, given that the eu economy is undergoing major structural change, which has repercussions on its global competitiveness and its labour market, the adoption of a true digital single market is therefore urgent.
in writing. - ict now plays a key role in promoting economic growth. they have promoted market restructuring, changed the way business is done and continue to offer a great opportunity for innovation. we need to invest in ict as one of the main pillars to promote growth and job creation, especially in the context of the economic crisis that the world economy is going through. more than building broadband or ict support infrastructure, europe needs to tap the potential of the internet in all sectors of the economy and harness it for economic recovery.
in writing. − the existence of a competitive digital single market is becoming more important and more inescapable in our society. technological developments, especially in terms of the provision of information, content and knowledge on the net, have been extremely rapid and, in just over a decade, have dramatically changed the digital landscape with the massification of the internet and mobile communications. it is therefore important to look to the future and to think about how these new facilities of the digital age can be put at the service of citizens and businesses, by modernising administrations and bringing them closer to those who are administered.
in writing. - the internet is a means of information and communication that knows no borders. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. this requires investment in the structures to promote broadband so that it is available across europe - which will create jobs and legal standardisation. in addition to strengthening confidence in the internal market, this is an opportunity to create an additional 25% of jobs in the digital sector. the new information and data transmission technologies are an accelerator of the development of the european union and consolidate the functioning of the european single market. it is a way of internationalizing small and mediumsized enterprises and modernising their operations. i voted in favour of the proposal which follows a statement by the commission on the need to strengthen confidence in the digital single market, which has unanimous support in this house because its advantages are more than obvious in terms of economic growth and job creation, as well as in the widespread free and universal access to online services by all citizens and businesses on equal terms.
in writing. − this resolution raises some concerns about consumer protection and trust in e-commerce, especially for more vulnerable groups such as the elderly and the disabled. these are positive and relevant concerns, but they cannot overshadow the broader context in which this resolution is being developed and its central and cross-cutting objective: the promotion of the liberalisation of the digital market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. as in other areas, the digital single market is developing to satisfy particular sectoral business interests, rather than being geared towards the defence of the general interest, the public domain and free access to the public.
in writing. - a single market is essential to establish a knowledge-based economy in the eu. e-commerce and online services are a vital force of the internet and are crucial to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy for the internal market. this motion for a resolution is intended to strengthen confidence in this market. the deepening of the digital single market will benefit both individual citizens and businesses through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this support is essential for 99% of all european smes, as they provide 85% of employment.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange systems, including the use of electronic data interchange systems, to the whole of the union. in this regard, member states and the commission are urged to make every effort to ensure the development of the digital single market as a general political priority and to present a holistic approach and an ambitious strategy covering both policy and legislative initiatives, making the digital single market a tangible reality.
in writing. − building confidence in the digital single market is dependent on a clear political commitment by member states to overcome market fragmentation in the relevant legal framework, vat, ensuring access to pan-european electronic payment services, electronic invoicing and delivery services. the resolution calls on the member states to implement fully and effectively the directives and regulations relating to the single market. since i believe that the fragmentation of the digital single market puts consumer choice at risk, which in turn hinders the competitiveness of the european economy, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which aims to promote a concerted european strategy for the benefit of citizens and their businesses.
in writing. − it is essential to exploit the full potential of the digital single market if the eu is to be a more competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, to the benefit of both its citizens and its businesses. the eu must therefore act now to maintain its competitive advantage worldwide, particularly in high-growth sectors such as the internet platform and the computer applications industry. in this context, exploiting the potential of the single market through the services directive and a digital single market could add €800 billion to the eu economy, which equates to approximately €4,200 per household. i voted for the document for these reasons.
in writing. − this resolution raises some concerns about consumer protection and trust in e-commerce, especially for more vulnerable groups such as the elderly and the disabled. however, we cannot depart from the central and cross-cutting objective of this resolution: the promotion of the liberalisation of the digital market. it is beginning to see the need to exploit the full potential of the digital single market to make the eu a more competitive and dynamic economy. to this end, member states should apply directives and regulations relating to the single market fully and effectively. the digital single market is being developed to meet business interests, rather than being geared towards the defence of the general interest, the public domain and free access to the public.
all austerity measures begin by affecting the most vulnerable in society first and most severely, and among all the social losses that are added up, one of the initial and essential is that of recourse to the provision of health care, both in terms of diagnosis and treatment and in the prevention and treatment of disease. in this context, i would like to stress that not only is access to health care a fundamental right of citizens, but health is also a fundamental condition for the well-being of the individual and the harmony of his personal life, for his professional activities and his contribution to society. it is therefore important to recognise that cuts in health care, so-called short-term cuts, may have long-lasting harmful effects, both personally and socially. among these, i would highlight the worsening of poverty among the most vulnerable and social inequality, but also the increase in risks to public health, for example from the increase in infectious diseases. i therefore welcome the initiative of this report, which i support.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that its aim is to identify a number of issues arising for groups considered to be vulnerable, for some groups where needs are becoming more and more evident and new, and for potentially vulnerable groups, in the context of current changing conditions, such as personal indebtedness. the committee thanks the various organisations which have provided it with up-to-date information. it is clear that the care sector for the elderly and people with physical or learning disabilities on the one hand, and those providing support for children or young people, or other individuals with special needs on the other, are increasingly under threat as costs are reduced and demands are increased. health care delivery faces similar challenges. such cuts, whether in services or benefits, affect not only those in need of care but also those who provide it. government budgets are being cut!
in writing. - poverty is an offence against human dignity. social inequality continues to develop in certain parts of the eu, due to the deterioration of the situation of already vulnerable groups, where many of the poor become even poorer. this trend has significant implications for the poverty reduction and inclusive growth targets of the europe 2020 strategy. some social security systems, especially those that assume a certain family-based structure, or those whose rights may be conditioned by certain working standards, also appear less able to cope with the growing pressures caused by the crisis, especially with regard to child poverty. troika interference in national budgets implies that the eu is seen as having a direct effect on areas that are primarily the responsibility of the member states. the eu should be seen as a promoter of solutions. comprehensive assessments of the social impacts caused by changes to social security systems and health service delivery are essential to prevent a bad situation from becoming worse, creating long-term problems and undermining other policy objectives.
in writing. − the dramatic increase in unemployment and uncertainty caused by the current economic and financial crisis has had disastrous consequences on health disparities, not only between member states but also within each member state: inequalities both between people living in different regions and between more and less favoured groups. those inequalities result from differences that are associated with factors such as living conditions, health behaviours, education, occupation and income, health care, disease prevention and health promotion services, and member states' policies, which influence the quantity, quality and distribution of those factors. with a view to achieving the eu's objective of economic growth and social solidarity set out in the lisbon strategy, it is essential to set up accompanying measures at eu level, which can support the actions developed by member states by fostering greater coordination and encouraging the exchange of good practices to eliminate such inequalities. it is important to help member states to make appropriate use of cohesion policy, the structural funds and the opportunities provided for under rural development policy and the cap market policies. they should also define effective policies, including actions to eliminate social disparities in health in general and actions specifically targeting the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. − the crisis we are experiencing, coupled with measures to curb health spending or reduce social support, has made it more difficult for the most vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and the disabled, to access health and medicines. it is therefore essential to make a balanced adjustment in the health sector, giving priority to cutting unnecessary expenditure and changing the paradigm so that we can support more those in need without overburdening the state. it is increasingly essential that states choose the right spending and implement reforms that create a fairer and more efficient model of health and medicines spending, without putting an undue burden on budgets and without hampering access for the most deprived. the way forward will be to promote equity in access by ensuring differentiated support for the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. − all people are born free and have the right to basic services such as health, food, education, etc. it is the responsibility of public services to ensure that these rights are respected. the economic and financial crisis has reduced the protection of people, particularly in relation to health. many citizens, after months of unemployment, renounce health insurance, which further worsens their quality of life. health care costs rise, wages fall, and problems pile up. in times of crisis, it is the most vulnerable who suffer most, especially children, the elderly and women, whose universal right to regular medical care is often called into question. i voted in favour of the report by jean lambert on the impact of the crisis on access to health care for vulnerable groups because, especially in times of crisis, we need to increase medical support for the most disadvantaged, provide quality health services for children and the elderly and fight against ethnic or religious discrimination against minorities.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is positive, highlighting a number of problems faced by vulnerable populations in accessing healthcare. the problem of access to health care is exacerbated by the consequences of the deepening crisis, as the report says. and what is more, the so-called austerity measures taken in the name of the solution to this crisis make matters worse. in this respect, the report fails to fully relieve eu policies and institutions of responsibility for the implementation of these measures in the member states. the report criticises the reduction measures implemented in the health sector, accompanied by the introduction of moderating rates, the increase in non-reimbursable expenditure and cuts in preventive health care. all very right. but i could and should have gone further. two amendments were adopted which we proposed and which valued public services publicly owned and managed, with democratic participation by their users and called for further consolidation of national health services to meet the needs of populations, especially the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. - the committee on employment and social affairs has for some time been concerned about the effect of these austerity measures on society in general and on vulnerable groups in particular. this own-initiative report seeks to identify a number of issues that arise for groups considered to be vulnerable, for some groups where needs are becoming more and more evident and new, and for potentially vulnerable groups, in the context of current changes in conditions, such as personal indebtedness. the need to have accurate, comparable and as up-to-date as possible data is a priority in order to find the right antidotes to minimise the impact of the crisis on these groups.
in writing. − the interference of austerity measures in national budgets is putting the european union at risk of losses caused by reforms under way in some member states. this implies that the union is seen as having a direct effect on areas which are primarily the responsibility of the member states, such as health and social care. in this context, the committee on employment and social affairs intends not only to identify a number of issues concerning the effects of austerity measures on groups considered to be vulnerable - migrants, children, precarious workers, the elderly and people with disabilities - but also to call for the responsibility of the union, which, with its potential for interference in national budgets, should also be a promoter of solutions. in fact, the removal of support for those who need it most, while it may lead to short-term spending cuts, ultimately creates lasting problems and should therefore be rejected.
in writing. - in view of the impact of the crisis, parliament called on the commission to require member states to provide information on the austerity measures implemented, to carry out social impact assessments of the austerity measures and to include in its country-specific recommendations recommendations which take into account the social and economic impact of such measures in the medium and long term. parliament also called on the commission and the member states to monitor, in cooperation with all relevant actors, and to address, in the context of national reform plans, national policies that go against the 2020 poverty reduction target. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is quite positive, highlighting a number of problems faced by vulnerable populations in accessing healthcare. the problem of access to health care is exacerbated by the consequences of the deepening crisis, as the report says. we believe, however, that the main problem lies in the measures taken in the name of the potential solution to this crisis. in this respect, the report fails to fully discharge european policies from the implementation of austerity measures in the member states. the report criticises the reduction measures implemented in the health sector, accompanied by the introduction of moderating rates, the increase in non-reimbursable expenditure and cuts in preventive health care. two amendments were adopted which we proposed and which valued public services - publicly owned and managed, with democratic participation by their users - and called for a further consolidation of national health services to meet the needs of populations, especially the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that hybrid television is an important technological step towards convergence of the media, which has the merit of calling into question important regulatory decisions in this sector. when adopting the audiovisual media services directive, it was decided that linear services would be subject to a coherent regulatory system, while non-linear services would be treated less restrictively, on the grounds that services have a different social function. in all member states, the linear services of public and private television stations assume, in addition to their impact as mass media, a high socio-political importance, which is often regulated by law. despite technological convergence, television has not lost its popularity or its socio-political importance. as linear media continue to reach a wider audience, they should be subject to strict regulatory requirements. this consequent differentiation, which has so far been achieved by means of progressive regulation under the scsa directive, is increasingly approaching its limits, especially with the development of hybrid television, or at least raises a number of issues and problems which must be solved by specific legislation.
in writing. − audiovisual media services are very important for society and democracy as carriers of identities, values and meanings, and require specific regulation in an increasingly convergent world. it is necessary to examine the need to review the audiovisual media services directive and other existing requirements in the media and networking regulation as regards the provisions on the location and non-discriminatory access to platforms for content providers and content operators by broadening the concept of platform in order to adapt existing mechanisms to new realities. we must be aware of the future challenges of connected tv in terms of the competitiveness of the sector, making it possible to relax more the quantitative constraints on advertising, and its advantages and disadvantages must be presented. i regret, however, that there are vast regions throughout europe with limited internet infrastructure. in order to exploit the potential of connected tv, it is essential that consumers have access to high-speed internet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for advocating the extension of the scope of the audiovisual media services directive to cover all operators of portals and hybrid platforms. it is necessary to ensure that devices, platforms and portals are designed on the basis of an open model, so that non-discriminatory and technologically neutral access to all content can be ensured.
in writing. - hybrid television is the type of television that combines access to the traditional television service and internet access on a single screen, thus promoting media convergence. this raises important issues in the field of competition law, economic law and privacy and data protection, but not only, as media are recognized educational, informative, entertainment and surveillance functions. european legislation must therefore be particularly attentive to these new realities and must adapt to new products placed on the market.
in writing. the report by mrs kammerevert on hybrid television is very timely, as the directive in force is outdated. the technological advance in this sector is enormous, not only because of the advent of digital television, but also because of the range of services and products that the television industry offers us. the reality of audiovisual media has changed and we must keep pace with its evolution and modernisation. we cannot treat the media as a commodity that sits in a warehouse waiting to be sold. hybrid television enables the citizen not only to access television programmes but also a range of products and services via the internet. this requires us to adopt a regulation which maintains the balance between what is offered to us and our freedom of choice. i voted in favour of this report, which calls for a revision of the audiovisual and social media services directive, because we need a regulation to protect consumers, especially children and young people, and to reorient the provision of content in the interests of citizens. we cannot let the providers tell us what's going to be on, because we have to guarantee the quality of the content.
in writing. - hybrid television is a major technological step which gives the user access not only to classic television programmes but also to the internet, irrespective of the technological platform used in the broadcast. the same screen thus brings together different services such as traditional television, video rental, internet and video-text, which in turn are covered by regulatory frameworks with very different degrees of regulation. the report encourages the commission to review the audiovisual media services directive and other existing requirements in the media and networking regulations by broadening the concept of platform to adapt existing mechanisms to new realities. an important and sensitive issue addressed is the protection of minors and protection against discrimination and hate-filled content. although the report addresses this issue within the existing liberalised framework for media and audiovisual services, concerns are raised about the provision of public services and ensuring respect for freedom of expression, information and the press. the report is also lacking in the firm defence of a public service of radio and television.
in writing. - hybrid television is an important technological step towards media convergence, which has the merit of calling into question important regulatory decisions in this sector. it is important to seek to establish an appropriate balance of power between market players, in particular device manufacturers and content providers, and especially in the case of integrated services. it is also necessary to prevent certain content providers from gaining an unfair advantage in relation to the dissemination of their content. i think there is still a lot to be discussed, but here is an important first step in the implementation of hybrid television.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on hybrid television (hybrid systems combining television with the internet and allowing users to browse between television channels and internet services, including illegal audiovisual content pages) which calls for respect for the provisions currently in force on the protection of minors, the prohibition of advertising certain products for health reasons, the prohibition of incitement to racial hatred, the distinction between news and advertising content, transparency in the fields of intellectual property and privacy, among other provisions which are part of the community acquis and cannot be circumvented on the pretext of technological developments. in particular, it is requested that providers of hybrid television services and equipment from non-eu countries be informed that the applicable law is that of the country of origin of the service provided and not that of the country where the provider has its head office.
in writing. the definition of hybrid television implies that the same television set can capture and display both programmes from the conventional linear service and audiovisual content via the internet connection. this ambivalent nature raises a legal problem with regard to the regulation, to very different degrees, of linear and nonlinear services. to date, media harmonisation in legislative matters has been successfully implemented by the audiovisual media services directive. however, this directive is increasingly reaching its limits, especially with the development of hybrid television, which is a problem that can only be solved by specific legislation. the european union must therefore ensure free and fair competition between services and content, by providing the necessary legislative instruments to guarantee uniform conditions of competition, the plurality of content, the diversity of opinions and freedom of information. i voted in favour.
in writing. - hybrid television is an important technological step towards media convergence which has the merit of calling into question important regulatory decisions in this sector. the audiovisual media services directive should be further developed to cover portal and hybrid platform operators globally. those that largely determine the diversity of content and opinions that reach the end-user should also be subject to such regulation in order to safeguard that diversity of content and opinions. parliament therefore urges the commission to examine the need to review the audiovisual media services directive and other existing requirements in the media and networking regulations, such as the telecommunications package, with regard to the provisions on location and non-discriminatory access to platforms. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - hybrid television is a major technological step forward which gives the user access not only to classic television programmes but also to the internet. the report encourages the commission to review the audiovisual media services directive and other existing requirements in the media and networking regulations by broadening the concept of platform to adapt existing mechanisms to new realities. for example, advertising on traditional television has a time limit, but not on the internet. an important and sensitive issue addressed is the protection of minors and protection against discrimination and hate-filled content. although the report addresses this issue within the existing liberalised framework for media and audiovisual services, concerns are raised about the provision of public services and ensuring respect for freedom of expression, information and the press. the report fails to mention the importance of defending a public service of radio and television and to slowly shift this responsibility, which is the responsibility of the states, to some private operators.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by stressing the purely technical nature of this amending budget, which is simply the result of the unanimous agreement on the treaty concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as the 28th member state of the union. i would stress that this amending budget has therefore been kept out of the current interinstitutional political debate on the arrangements for settling the 2012 outstanding payments and the negotiations on draft amending budget no 2/2013. i would remind you, however, that according to paragraph 29 of the iia, the resources earmarked for financing this amending budget must be covered by an adjustment of the financial framework, in particular by a revision of the ceilings for 2013 in commitments and payments. i also regret the difficulty with which the council reached agreement on this amending budget, even after the expiry of the eight-week deadline, which resulted in a delay in the availability of funding for croatia from 1 july 2013. i would stress that this situation must not become a precedent for future enlargements.
in writing. - the financial allocation for croatia will now pass over and become part of the eu budget. these resources are very important for the country to stimulate growth, development, employment and competitiveness.
in writing. − on 1 july 2013, croatia took its place as the 28th member state of the european union. i would like to begin by greeting this country and congratulating the efforts of the croatian people who have succeeded in overcoming the challenge of accession. as already mentioned at the time of the adoption of the draft budget for 2013, which was finally adopted on 12 december 2012 and which already includes an appropriation to cover the administrative expenditure arising from this accession, it is necessary to adjust the financial framework, in particular by revising the ceilings for 2013 as regards commitments and payments. i voted in favour of the report by mr giovanni la via on the council's position on draft amending budget no 1/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, because it is a purely technical amending budget arising from the treaty on the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu.
in writing. − this draft amending budget no 1/2013 is intended to incorporate in the 2013 budget the commitment and payment appropriations necessary to cover expenditure related to the accession of croatia to the european union. the report takes note of the draft amending budget drawn up taking into account the amendment to the interinstitutional agreement and the multiannual financial framework (mff), in particular as regards the 2013 ceilings on commitments and payments, related to the accession of croatia. the commission proposed to amend the mff for 2013 by increasing the amount of commitment appropriations by eur 666 million and payment appropriations by eur 374 million in current prices. the report regrets, however, that the council has decided to neglect the amount of commitments, ignoring the political and social importance of the increase in the mff, particularly the cohesion headings, which must be adjusted to real needs. it is the widely held principle of economic and social cohesion which is thus called into question, given that there have been continuous differences between member states and regions for decades, and that the amounts are still insufficient to deal with the serious economic and social crisis in which europe finds itself.
in writing. − this draft amending budget no 1/2013 is intended to incorporate in the 2013 budget the commitment and payment appropriations necessary to cover expenditure related to the accession of croatia to the union as from 1 july 2013. this amending budget is a purely technical situation, which simply results from the unanimous agreement on the treaty concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as the 28th member state of the union, and which does not entail any additional costs and was not already planned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii expenditure related to the accession of croatia to the european union, which decides, given the political importance and urgency of securing the necessary funding for croatia, to adopt the council position on this matter without amendment.
in writing. − the accession of croatia to the european union required the revision of the budgetary provisions, with the aim of incorporating the commitment and payment appropriations necessary to cover the expenditure related to the entry of this new member state. in view of these expenditure, the commission presented draft amending budget no 1/2013, which provides for an increase of eur 655,1 million in commitments and eur 374 million in payments. while regretting the difficulty of the council reaching agreement on this amending budget, which resulted in a delay in the availability of funding for croatia from 1 july 2013, and the fact that, as regards the revision of commitments, the council decided to disregard the political importance of adopting the commission proposal in its original version, opting instead for the offsetting of the requested appropriations, parliament decided, however, given the political importance and the legal urgency of securing the necessary funding for croatia, to approve without amendment the council's position on draft amending budget no 1/2013. i voted in favour.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 1/2013 is intended to incorporate in the 2013 budget the commitment and payment appropriations necessary to cover expenditure related to the accession of croatia to the union as from 1 july 2013, thus avoiding the need for a budgetary adjustment in the next programming period (2014-2020). i agree with the proposed increase of eur 655,1 million in commitments and eur 374 million in payments, which is reflected in the financial package agreed at the accession conference of 30 june 2011. i would like to express my displeasure that the council only reached agreement on this amending budget after the expiry of the eight-week deadline, which resulted in a delay in the availability of funding for croatia from 1 july 2013.
in writing. − i approve this report, firstly by regretting the difficulty with which, even after the eight-week deadline had elapsed, the council reached agreement on this review, which led to a delay in the availability of funding for croatia due from 1 july 2013. the report warns that this should not be a precedent for further enlargements. however, i welcome the fact that the council has finally agreed to a revision, without any compensation, of the 2013 ceilings for payments in the requested amount of eur 374 million. i consider that, given the limited amount involved and the current lack of payment appropriations in the 2013 budget, this is the right way to fulfil the obligation that member states assumed when they signed the accession treaty and to respect the provisions of point 29 of the iia of 17 may 2006. i regret, however, that in the context of the review of commitments the council has decided to ignore the political importance of adopting the commission proposal as it stands, opting instead for a compensation of the necessary appropriations.
in writing. − the report by reimer böge analyses the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework (2007-2013) to cover expenditure arising from the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. on 1 july 2013, croatia became the 28th member state of the eu. although the eu budget for 2013 already included an amount to cover administrative expenditure, the remaining expenditure actually implies an adjustment of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework. because this accession requires an increase of eur 603 million in commitment appropriations for 2013 and an adjustment of eur 374 million in the ceiling for payment appropriations for 2013, i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. − the accession process of a new country to the eu presupposes that the country receives adequate resources in view of the political decision taken. that is why we are voting on this report. however, in the face of enormous difficulties, including a 22% unemployment rate, which among young people is 50%, we believe that we are not facing a situation which takes into account the real situation of croats. in fact, to face new membership and to cope with the dramatic economic and social situation we are facing today, it would be necessary for the eu budget to be substantially increased and its redistributive function to be emphasised, with more appropriations for the cohesion fund and the structural funds, which is not happening quite the contrary. more money to support productive activity, especially in the countries facing the most difficulties, the creation of jobs with rights, the fight against poverty, research and development. this is particularly important in countries which, like croatia, feel the negative impact of the single market confrontation with stronger production systems. this enlargement is accompanied by a reduction, for the first time, of the eu budget in absolute terms. it is unacceptable and reveals the true nature of this eu.
in writing. − this draft amending budget no 1/2013 is intended to incorporate in the 2013 budget the commitment and payment appropriations necessary to cover expenditure related to the accession of croatia to the union as from 1 july 2013. this amending budget is a purely technical situation, which simply results from the unanimous agreement on the treaty concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as the 28th member state of the union, and which does not entail any additional costs and was not already planned. the commission has also decided to extend the period of validity of the financial corrections to the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework to take account of the expenditure needs arising from the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. − the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013 has made it necessary to adapt the present financial framework to take account of the financing of the same accession, which implies a revision of the ceilings for 2013 in commitments and payments. while regretting that the council did not respect the time limit for adopting its position on the necessary corrections, which compromised and shortened the time limit for adoption by parliament, and that the council did not accept the revision of commitments as proposed by the commission and opted for a compensation of the necessary appropriations, parliament decided, considering the political importance and the legal urgency of this matter, to adopt the decision amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework in order to take account of the expenditure needs arising from the accession of croatia to the european union. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 represents the european budget for the next seven years of the programming period, and is of tremendous importance given that 94% of its funds are directed to active policies to promote economic growth, job creation and wealth generation. i am voting in favour of this report because the financial perspective for the new member state needs to be adjusted, stressing that the resources for financing the accession of croatia should be covered by an adaptation of the financial framework, in particular by a revision of the ceilings for 2013 in commitments and payments. in this respect, i agree with the proposed increase of eur 666 million in commitments and eur 374 million in payments, which reflects the financial package agreed at the accession conference of 30 june 2011, with the exception of heading 5, as the administrative expenditure linked to croatia's accession is already included in the 2013 budget.
in writing. − the accession process of a new country to the eu presupposes that it will receive adequate resources in view of the political decision taken. that is why we are voting on this report today. however, in the face of enormous difficulties - unemployment rate of 22%, and among young people it is 50% - we consider that we are not faced with an agreement which takes account of the real situation of the croats. in fact, to face new accession and to cope with the dramatic economic and social situation we are facing today, the eu budget would need to be substantially increased and its redistributive function emphasised: more appropriations for the cohesion fund and the structural funds. the funds should be increased to support productive activity, especially in the countries facing the most difficulties, to create jobs with rights, to combat poverty and exclusion, to research and development and to protect the environment. less resources for external interventionism, immigration repression, militarism and institutional propaganda is what we advocate.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, starting by welcoming the commitment of the european council of 27-28 june 2013 to complete the construction of a genuine economic and monetary union, involving all the elements of the banking union, a more effective coordination of economic policies, the development of financial solidarity mechanisms and the strengthening of the social dimension, but regretting the inability to make further progress. this resolution calls on the commission to submit a communication on the social dimension of emu. i therefore urge the speedy completion of all the legislation necessary to create a single supervisory mechanism based on the european central bank. i also support the europe 2020 growth strategy, which aims to create the right policy framework to develop businesses, create jobs, raise living standards and develop a sustainable economy, and where i stress the need to improve the macroeconomic environment of industry by improving access to capital, creating better infrastructure, protecting property rights and supporting, in particular, smes in order to improve their competitiveness and access to new markets.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution which we have just voted on, tabled under rule 35 (3) of the rules of procedure, replacing the proposals of the epp, s&d and alde political groups, focuses on the european parliament's priorities for the commission's work programme for 2014. the economic and financial crisis, which is showing signs of slowing down, is forcing us to maximise all the resources available and to define a set of priorities that can meet the expectations of europeans. of course, economic growth and job creation, especially youth employment. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because economic governance, in addition to balancing public accounts, must seek to consolidate the functioning of the single market, develop a green economy by promoting biodiversity and combating climate change, build a europe of citizens through a more cohesive and inclusive society, develop an economy based on natural resources such as those from agriculture and fisheries, and boost international trade and external relations.
in writing. - the proposals contained in this resolution do not counteract the crisis. by deepening the course and policies that are at the root of the crisis, they are deepening the crisis itself. the class mark of the proposals made here is quite noticeable. proposals tailored to the interests of big business (many of which are claimed by its representative organisations) and contrary to the interests of the workers and peoples of europe. the attack on sovereignty and democracy, as expressed here, and the attempt to impose a neocolonial directive on countries like portugal, are part of this class offensive, making national oppression a form of class oppression. this resolution exposes the scale of the crisis and the destruction of productive forces as a solution which the ruling classes want to impose on the peoples of europe in order to maintain their privileges untouched and to regain ground in the world competition between capitalist powers and monopolies. deepening integration into the eu and the emu through the mechanisms of economic governance, banking union, europe 2020, the deepening of the single market in the energy sectors and all modes of transport and telecommunications will lead to the destruction of services, more business closures, redundancies, unemployment and greater precariousness and exploitation in labour relations, lower wages and pensions, more poverty and misery.
in writing. − the long crisis we are going through will never be overcome without a significant deepening of european integration. the financial, economic and debt crisis has highlighted the need to strengthen democratic scrutiny and accountability. i therefore believe that there should be a deeper democratic process in the area of economic governance, with greater involvement of parliament, which will help to improve citizens' confidence in the eu in managing the crisis. the commission should, as a matter of priority, ensure the smooth functioning of the new financial framework, including the new rules on flexibility agreed in the context of these negotiations. employment is a top priority, so existing resources at european level must be used to preserve existing jobs and create new jobs for young people, especially in the services, industry and digital economy sectors. investments to strengthen the eu's competitiveness will play a key role both in the coming year and in the years ahead.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the european parliament's priorities for the commission's work programme for 2014 which reiterates support for the europe 2020 growth strategy, which aims to create the right policy framework to develop businesses, create jobs, raise living standards and develop a sustainable economy.
in writing. the resolution makes a comprehensive assessment of the current european context, which places the union, which is suffering from a profound competitiveness crisis, in an increasingly challenging world economy. only competitive economies will be able to create jobs and improve the living standards of their citizens, and european competitiveness will only be possible if a growth strategy is adopted that ensures that there is an appropriate policy framework for businesses and entrepreneurs to thrive, creating jobs, generating wealth and promoting the well-being of citizens. i voted in favour.
in writing. − considering that it is imperative that, following the political negotiations on the mff 2014-2020, the commission ensures, as a matter of utmost priority, the smooth functioning of the new financial framework, including the new rules on flexibility agreed in the political negotiations, and that there is an urgent need for a banking union, a single supervisory mechanism and swift proposals on financial services, i voted against this document.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is an old trend which will further deepen the crisis and the class domination which big capital has been imposing on the workers and peoples of europe, its attack on sovereignty and democracy and its attempt to impose a neocolonial rule on countries like portugal. this resolution exposes the scale of the crisis and the destruction of productive forces as a solution which the ruling classes want to impose on the peoples of europe in order to maintain their privileges untouched and to regain ground in the world competition between capitalist powers and monopolies. deepening integration into the eu and the emu through the mechanisms of economic governance, banking union, europe 2020, the deepening of the single market in the energy sectors and all modes of transport and telecommunications will lead to the destruction of services, more business closures, redundancies, unemployment and greater precariousness and exploitation in labour relations, lower wages and pensions, more poverty and misery. it is urgent to break with the eu and make way for another europe of the workers and the people.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, starting by calling on the egyptian government to guarantee the safety of all citizens, regardless of their political affiliation, opinions and beliefs, to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to protect the right to freedom of association and expression, and to respect and fulfil its international obligations, and urging all parties to act responsibly in order to avoid violent actions and provocations that could compromise or impede the legitimate right of people to demonstrate peacefully. i also urge all political actors to start as soon as possible a dialogue for reconciliation based on tolerance, inclusion and non-violence with the aim of promoting the democratic transition and creating genuine democratic institutions in the country. i call for an immediate end to all acts of violence and sexual harassment, virginity testing and other forms of degrading treatment inflicted on female protesters, women's rights activists and the lgbt community, and call for all these cases to be seriously and impartially investigated and those responsible brought to justice.
in writing. − egypt is the largest country of the arab spring, a key country in the southern mediterranean region, an important trading partner of the eu and one of the main beneficiaries of eu aid. political, economic and social developments in this country have important consequences for the eu as a whole. egypt is in a critical period of transition to democracy, facing major challenges in the areas of the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and social justice. i express my solidarity with the egyptian people in this critical period of transition to democracy and i believe that those responsible for such acts must be brought to justice. the egyptian government must guarantee the safety of all its citizens. all political actors must start a dialogue on reconciliation as soon as possible, with the aim of promoting the democratic transition and establishing genuine democratic institutions in the country.
in writing. - in recent days, we have witnessed massive demonstrations against the egyptian government, which have not only paralysed several cities but have also led to a real carnage. the bloodless military detention of muslim brotherhood leader mohamed morsi - whose political wing, the freedom and justice party, won the last election - has sparked a wave of violence that has left 16 people dead. the situation in egypt is worsening day by day and the international community cannot remain indifferent to the real battles that are taking place in the camp, with dozens of dead and hundreds of wounded. the transition process that began about two years ago is going through dramatic hours with some already claiming that the egyptians are much worse off than they were two years ago. there is no stability, public services are declining, the social crisis is worsening and the country is sinking socially and economically. i voted in favour of this joint resolution, which is being tabled to replace the resolutions of several political groups, because the european union must appeal to calm and restraint, by bringing the parties to the same table, so that the voice of the people can be heard through an inclusive dialogue that will bear fruit in a democratic constitution that respects human and minority rights.
in writing. - after all the pressure, after all the manoeuvres, after all the attempts to change something and keep everything the same, the egyptian people continue to demonstrate remarkable dignity, combativeness, firmness and determination. it continues to fight for freedom and democracy in its country, for its right to decide its present and future in a sovereign way, free from any outside interference. after the defeat of the mubarak dictatorship, the egyptian people are not resigned and continue their march of liberation and against new forms of subjugation that arise from the sectarian power of the muslim brotherhood islamists and other forms of imperialist interference. the motion for a resolution was eventually replaced at the last minute by a minimalist declaration, agreed between the different political groups, in view of the latest developments in the country (removal of president morsi). what is at stake in egypt is the maintenance of the class power of the egyptian bourgeoisie and imperialism. significantly, the resolution advocated that egypt implement the requirements of eu and imf aid, i.e. the imposition of a well-known agenda.
in writing. - the recent events in egypt are very worrying. military power cannot kidnap a democratically elected president. the eu is concerned about the developments and will have to help, within the framework of international institutions, to find a peaceful solution to this conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the egyptian authorities to take responsibility for meeting the requirements for the availability of eu and imf aid, as the eu remains willing to help egypt to ensure that the reforms leading to economic recovery are carried out responsibly and swiftly.
in writing. − egypt received about €1 billion in aid from the european union between 2007 and 2012. this year, the eu has authorised new aid worth €5 billion, which can only be fully made available once the conditions attached to the loans have been met. these conditions are linked to the fulfilment of human rights requirements, which impel the country to make democratic progress in respecting the human rights, fundamental guarantees and civil liberties of egyptian citizens. given the role that the union has to play in the framework of the democratic transition, i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the egyptian authorities to take responsibility for meeting the requirements, recalling that the growing political tensions are exacerbating internal polarization and that the situation in the country under the muslim brotherhood government has not only not improved but has deteriorated.
in writing. the egyptian people continue to demonstrate to the world their dignity, combativeness, will and determination to fight for the improvement of their working and living conditions. it seems that their struggle for democratic rights, for their sovereignty and for their right to decide their present and their future, free from any outside interference, is unstoppable. after the defeat of the mubarak dictatorship, the egyptian people are not resigned and continue their march of liberation and against new forms of subjugation that arise from the sectarian power of the muslim brotherhood islamists and the external interference of imperialism. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to combat terrorism.
mr president, we have long been warning of the problem of land use change caused by various sectoral policies and of its social and environmental consequences, both in europe and on other continents, and especially in the developing countries. in the field of energy policy options, which includes the issue of biofuels, in addition to all that has been said here, the debate sometimes tends to evade a central issue: the unsustainability of energy flows and consumption associated with the current economic system, which is largely dominant on a world scale. the energy question facing mankind is undoubtedly a difficult and complex one, which discourages the commercial and propaganda voluntarisms which tend to shape policy choices in this as in other fields. the diversification of sources, the focus on renewables, research and development are certainly part of the way forward, but they are not a miraculous solution to environmental problems if we do not get to the heart of the problem, if we maintain an irrational economic system and the irrational energy demand associated with it.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation, which is to be introduced in the member states. this is the report that looks forward to the celebration that will follow the implementation of the third energy package - the celebration of liberalisation, of sacrosanct competitiveness and free competition. but who is celebrating, who is benefiting and has always benefited from the privatization of public energy services? it was not the workers and it was not the small and mediumsized enterprises. it was the big economic groups that came to dominate the sector. it was the large transnational monopolies, which accumulate enormous profits at the expense of a service which should be public and serve the real interests of the people. it is extraordinary how private interests have been masked in the liberalization process and how these interests have been tried to be imputed to consumers by talking about the option of active consumer choice. it is not the interests of consumers that will be protected by liberalization, but the guarantee of profits in price setting.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate mr buzek on his excellent report on the internal energy market and i would also like to stress the importance of the subject of micro-generation and thank mrs merkies for the initiative. i welcome the principles contained in the buzek report of creating an integrated, open, well-regulated and competitive internal energy market. an integrated internal market, together with investment in science and research to develop new technologies, will ensure clean, cheap and affordable energy for all european citizens. clean and affordable energy is a key objective for the competitiveness of european industry and for the well-being of people.
in writing. there are successive pressures for the accelerated deepening of the process of liberalization and privatization of services which, in many cases, are still public. liberal and commercial propaganda, explained to exhaustion, serves to support the offensive. the aim: to defend the implementation of the third energy package. the wonders of liberalization, of sacrosanct free competition and competitiveness - always propagated and always more and more denied by reality - are repeated to the point of nausea. they mask the private interests that determine the liberalization processes and try to make it appear that these processes are in the interests of consumers. it is not the interests of consumers that will be protected by liberalization but the guarantee of profits in price setting. the publicly funded infrastructure they advocate will, as always, be tailored to the needs of powerful private sector interests. interests defended in harmony by the european right and social democracy. what is needed is to restore democratic public control over this strategic sector of the economy, as a necessary step to put it effectively at the service of economic development and social justice, defending the interests of smes and families as well as workers in the sector.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about wage discrimination, but we should do more. it is necessary for member states to have adequate legislation, but also to have the means to enforce it. today, employers circumvent the law by feminizing occupational categories, setting lower wage values in these, although they are categories that can be equated with functions performed predominantly by men. only a close inspection can detect these cases. but today the labour policies promoted by the european union, the european commission, through the troika in which it participates, and even by the majority of this european parliament are totally contrary to the principle of equal pay. the fact that you want to promote flexible working hours, flexible contracts, individual contracts is to undermine the protection of women, it is contrary to the principle which you claim to defend.
mr president, commissioner, it is 30 years since the directive on equal pay for men and women was adopted, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, but the fact is that women still earn on average 16% less than men in the european union. many objectives, many campaigns and measures taken in recent years have not prevented gender pay gaps from persisting and being significant. to earn the same during the year, women would have to work two months longer than men. although my country, portugal, is doing better than the union average in this respect, the wage gap in portugal is still more than 12%. the crisis we are experiencing is, however, giving signs that this situation may deteriorate. because of this disparity, the risk of poverty for women has always been higher than for men, and the impact on pensions is also unfavourable for women. so, commissioner, i will end with the following question: will the commission continue to resign itself to this situation? how will the commission implement the recommendations and thus respond to one of the most persistent and pernicious problems in the field of equality between men and women?
mr president, last week paulo portas and maria luís albuquerque travelled to brussels to speak to the troika. was it to agree together on the next austerity measures or to negotiate the second bailout now? it'll all be a secret until the mayoral election. the troika and the government are complicit in the total failure of the adjustment policies, which only add austerity to austerity and recession to recession. we know they're going to insist on the same disaster policy, but until september 29th, they don't want the public to know. so the troika will wait. what he won't do is risk the ruling parties being punished at the polls. last july, an unprecedented political crisis erupted in portugal, with the resignation of two ministers. but the government didn't resign. the president didn't dismiss the government and didn't call elections. early elections are not permitted in the troika era. in the era of the troika, people have to eat and shut up. the troika is hijacking democracy.
mr president, the european parliament held a delegation to japan in the last week of august. we met with all the actors who were involved in the fukushima process and not surprisingly we found a huge discrepancy between the official optimism and the concerns of the evaluation committees. the accident started in 2011, but it's getting worse every day. radioactive water was stored in a hurry and now leaks are a part of everyday life, with deadly levels of radiation. in one hour there is five times more radiation than a person can tolerate in a year. ecosystems are destroyed, public health is irreparably affected. in the meantime, in europe, we are still playing with safety, and we are tired of knowing that nuclear safety can never be guaranteed. everything is being done to put nuclear back as a normal technology and the capitalist system will do everything to forget fukushima, even to question humanity itself. but we must learn when we delegate in this case we have an obligation to learn to put the common interest ahead of business.
mr president, this summer fires have again destroyed human lives and forests. i express my solidarity with the victims, their families and all those affected by this scourge. the strategic, economic, social and environmental importance of forests in the european union is unquestionable. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. i believe that the european funds for 2014-2020 should support and stimulate intervention and prevention measures, as well as the necessary reforestation policies, which bring economic and environmental value with the aim of making forests profitable and, at the same time, promoting biodiversity and combating climate change.
mr president, this summer in portugal, 940 square kilometres burned. these 94 000 hectares correspond to twice the size of the 34 municipalities of the two largest metropolitan areas of the country, lisbon and porto. 35% of the burned area occurred in ecologically sensitive areas. the costs amounted to eur 358 million. rural people are becoming poorer and abandoning their land, forests are disappearing and biodiversity is declining. portugal must work to reduce these numbers, from prevention to deterrence of those responsible for the fires. the european union is called upon to strengthen its forestry policy, the poor relative of agriculture, and to show recognition of the different types of forest in the european area, with geographically adapted measures, from the level of protection to reforestation. there is yet another number to add to the economic and social damage: it's the numbers of personal dramas. eight firefighters lost their lives young, very young. i want to leave you with the thanks of a country and the homage of all of us.
mr president, innovation is unquestionably essential to create, as the report says, a smarter and safer transport system, ensuring easy, sustainable and safe mobility. but it is a pity that in the more than 60 paragraphs of this report, the reality of many countries today is overlooked. this is a reality marked by an unprecedented attack on the public transport system, as is happening in portugal, by the hand of the external and internal troika. an attack which has led to a 20% decrease in the use of public transport over the last two years, which has worsened the quality of transport, reduced safety, comfort, regularity and speed, which has raised the price sharply, which has attacked the right of people to mobility, which has promoted the use of individual transport and thus increased energy consumption, thus calling into question the sustainability which this report claims to defend. and yet some of those who approve of these fine recommendations on sustainability are the same ones who support and promote this offensive against the populations and public transport. they will not go unjudged by their contradictions.
as cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support to get the eu back on track towards the energy efficiency target and while the eu budget negotiations are still ongoing, it is essential that the financial commitment comes out stronger if europe is to meet its energy efficiency targets. its benefits, already recognised in the eu, face the objective of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more prominent role. improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for europe's competitiveness and a win-win option in the fight against climate change. investment in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, job creation and growth opportunities for all regions of europe including the outermost and the outermost regions. it is also important to take account of the good practices with good results that some regions have applied in these areas.
mr president, madam rapporteur, this report is another step in the insidious attack on the principle of multilingualism in the european parliament. as always, budget cuts in recent years have been justified under the pretext of efficiency gains. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to use the language of the members of the european parliament. this report ignores the clear shortcomings that already exist in interpretation services, as well as in translation services. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. but not only are these shortcomings ignored, but they are pushed further. they want more cuts, which is unacceptable, just as it is unacceptable that under the pretext of these guidelines, workers in interpretation and translation services should be made to feel even more insecure, their jobs and their rights being jeopardized. they are essential to the functioning of this house. they must therefore be respected and valued, and they must be in sufficient numbers.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work, but i cannot help mentioning something that has surprised me throughout this debate, not only from the commission but also from some colleagues who have spoken of this situation in the field of credit for buildings as if we were talking about a natural disaster. and it wasn't a natural disaster that happened. there have been wrong political decisions that have allowed speculation, that have cultivated in europe an idea that wages must be kept low and unlimited access to credit, that housing has been forgotten as a right and not a commodity and that has led to bankers and banks making unbelievable and unacceptable profits at the expense of this business. and today we have tragic situations in families in many european countries, situations where families deliver the house and still have to continue to pay because all the risk has been on the families. it happens in spain, portugal, croatia, greece, in many countries, and so it is obvious that it is a matter of regulation that we are talking about (...) (the president cut the speaker off)
i would also like to thank my colleague arlene mccarthy for her work. it is exactly five years ago this september that we had the lehman brothers scandal, and we continue to live with the problems of market abuse, insider trading, market manipulation, opacity, lack of transparency, immorality every day. i think we can and should use that very word in this case: immorality. there are manipulations ranging from the altering of numbers, the interference with interest rates, the scandal of the benchmark indices and many more that we could identify. and it is quite true that in all the countries of the european union we continue to see every day news that appears on the front pages of newspapers, revealing individuals or institutions that had access to this information. and as hard as it is to prove, the truth is that no attempt is made to prove this crime and there is total impunity still going on. there are very few cases where these crimes have been punished. now, it's not because they're committed by individuals in suits or jackets, or by institutions that feel they're beyond what society's normal sanctions are, that they shouldn't be punished. they should be punished and they should go to prison if that is the case, because for criminals the result should be prison, regardless of what we are talking about. and only with concrete sanctions and concrete regulation can we finally talk about the financial market at the service of society, and not the shame we have been witnessing for five years now.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two points. the first one is about the reciprocity mechanism. i agree that complete reciprocity in visa matters must be our objective. when a member state notifies that a third country has decided to make its nationals subject to a visa requirement, all member states should react collectively by giving a common response to a situation affecting the union as a whole. we cannot allow citizens of the union to be treated differently. this is the approach of my colleague mr díaz de mera, and i agree with him completely. secondly, the question of the reintroduction of visas, i.e. the temporary suspension of the exemption from the visa requirement. i would stress that this mechanism should only be activated in very specific cases of urgency where there has been a substantial and sudden increase in the number of irregular immigrants or unfounded applications for international protection. i agree with the approach taken by andrey kovatchev in the committee on foreign affairs, who stressed that this mechanism cannot be automatic. and i agree with him when he stresses that the visa exemption is only one aspect of the wider relations between the union and a third country or region and that for that reason the reintroduction of the visa requirement cannot be dissociated from this wider process and should not call into question the coherence of the european union's external policies. i share with many colleagues the idea that the european parliament should have more than the information rights it has, but i am very sensitive to the argument of my colleague mr díaz de mera, whom i have respected for a long time. if a broader commitment is not possible, it is better to take this first step than to be left with nothing. it is better that parliament should participate in the right to information than that we should continue with the system that is in force at the moment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to amend the regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through certain technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms, as regards the proposals concerning only certain types of acts to be adopted and to ensure that the measures are not modified. the change of parts of the text of implementing acts to delegated acts is very positive.
in writing. - i welcome the report as it is adopted, as its main objective is to defend the role of the european parliament in relation to the commission's proposal to amend the adoption of delegated and implementing acts. in general, the proposed amendments relate only to the types of acts to be adopted and do not change the content of the measures. however, certain issues proposed as implementing acts do not concern uniform conditions for the application of the regulation and their use involves de facto exclusion of parliament.
in writing. the need to conserve fisheries resources by protecting juveniles of marine organisms has been felt for some time. the european union and the member states share this need and share the same concern about the risks of non-renewal of marine organism populations and the consequent depletion of available fisheries resources and irreversible damage to biological diversity and the environment. the commission's proposed amendments to council regulation (ec) no 850/98 aim to improve the capacity and speed of the european response to these challenges and bring it into line with the rules of the lisbon treaty. i believe that parliament's version improves on the original version of the european commission, in particular because it introduces into the text the need for the commission to be periodically accountable for the powers delegated to it.
in writing. - the proposal to confer implementing powers on the commission in respect of: technical standards for the measurement of mesh size, square mesh and wire mesh; technical standards for the manufacture of net fabric materials; the list of devices which may obstruct or otherwise reduce the effective opening of the meshes of a fishing net; the transmission of lists of vessels for which a special fishing permit has been issued for use of beam trawls; technical standards for the measurement of engine power and size of fishing gear; the obligation for member states to ensure that fishing effort levels are not exceeded in certain areas of ices division ixa; temporary measures whenever the conservation of stocks of marine organisms requires immediate action.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 850/98 provides for certain technical conservation measures, it applies to the taking and landing of fishery resources in maritime waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the member states. the commission proposal aims to align this regulation with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, concerning delegated and implementing acts. however, the rapporteur considers that articles 39, 40 and 41 of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy already provide a framework for the monitoring, certification and verification of engine power of fishing vessels and that these issues should therefore not be seen as implementing acts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − i agree that in order to allow certain provisions of this regulation to be updated to reflect effectively technical and scientific progress, acts should be adopted in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. such acts should be used for the procedures to be adopted for the conservation and maintenance of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to review regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through certain technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, regulation (ec) no 850/98 needs to be aligned with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which establishes a new regulatory hierarchy comprising three distinct levels of acts, namely legislative, delegated and implementing acts. in this context, the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in respect of the division of regions into geographical zones, the rules for the use of nets and the rules for determining the percentage of target species caught by vessels. the commission's powers in terms of implementing acts relate mainly to technical measures for the construction and measurement of the mesh size of nets and technical standards for the measurement of engine power and the size of fishing gear. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important element in improving the regulation on technical fisheries management measures to protect juveniles of marine organisms.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation is based on the new hierarchy of rules established by the lisbon treaty and aims to align regulation (ec) no 850/98 with the treaty. the commission proposes to be empowered to adopt delegated acts with regard to technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms, however, the rapporteur, while welcoming the proposals for amendments to the regulation drafted by the commission, notes that the implementing powers claimed in the text do not relate, as required by article 291 tfeu, to this third level of the hierarchy of rules. the rapporteur believes that the commission is moving forward with certain proposals for implementing acts, when in fact these proposals concern exceptions which supplement and amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act, and therefore they should be delegated acts, limited in scope to the extension of the delegation, in order to ensure regular evaluation of their usefulness. the lucidity of the argument, judged in conjunction with the political group i belong to, supports my vote in favour.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through certain technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms needs to be brought into line with the new treaty rules on delegated and implementing acts. with the exception of some slight adjustments to the powers conferred on the commission in the field of delegated acts, the document largely maintains the commission's proposals, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − regulation no 850/98 provides for certain technical conservation measures and applies to the taking and landing of fishery resources in maritime waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the member states. the commission proposal aims to align this regulation with articles 290 and 291 tfeu on delegated and implementing acts. however, the rapporteur considers that articles 39, 40 and 41 of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 establishing a community control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy already provide a framework for the monitoring, certification and verification of engine power of fishing vessels and that these issues should therefore not be considered as implementing acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that while all the member states of the european union have the institution of marriage, not all have the institution of registered partnership and that the subject of the choice of law applicable to registered partnerships would therefore necessarily have to be limited to those member states which have this institution.
in writing. - the increasing mobility of people in an area without internal borders is reflected in a significant increase in unions, whatever their form, between nationals of different member states or residents in a member state other than that of their nationality. the registered partnership system is a form of union other than marriage, which is defined by the national law of each member state. this system is enshrined in the legislation of four member states for opposite-sex couples and in the legislation of 12 member states for same-sex couples. the recognition in a member state of a decision on the property consequences of a registered partnership is intended only to enable the property consequences determined in that decision to be enforced, without requiring the member state concerned to recognise the partnership underlying the property consequences giving rise to the decision. i therefore support this proposal which seeks to ensure that all eu citizens can enjoy the same equality and property rights, irrespective of the nature of the union, but with due regard for the national law of the member state concerned. the creation of a clear and coherent regulatory framework will provide greater legal certainty for the citizens concerned and bring clear benefits to the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − it is essential that in the eu area registered partnerships with links to more than one member state can have their rights enforced in any of them. the aim is to achieve a degree of harmonisation of the schemes, which guarantees legal certainty for those involved, while maintaining the principle that the definition of such schemes is a matter for the member states.
in writing. − in 2007 there were some 211 000 registered partnerships in the eu, of which more than 41 000 had some link in terms of property regimes to more than one member state. of these unions, 8 500 (4%) ended in separation and 1 266 (0.6%) in the death of one of the partners. the institution of registered partnership is growing with the development of citizen mobility in europe. in the case of registered partnerships, even more so than in the case of marriages - the provisions vary greatly from one country to another, which creates legal uncertainty. in the event of a dispute, the partner who has the best advice available may - as in the case of couples united by marriage - decide to go to a court which applies the law which seems to him to be more favourable. this proposal substantially improves the legal situation of the couples involved.
in writing. − this report aims to contribute to the resolution of issues associated with the union of two partners, including disputes, in particular in relation to decisions to be taken in terms of property regimes (in more than one eu country). according to the report, the persons involved often face complex issues, especially as regards the law applicable to their case and the competent court. the laws vary widely from country to country in the case of registered unions, which creates legal uncertainty. to overcome these problems, the report proposes the legal recognition of certain rules for partnerships in property regimes with links to more than one member state. despite our well-known reservations about the harmonization of private civil law, the objectives pursued here seem to us to be fair and the proposal in the report acceptable.
in writing. − the increasing mobility of people in an area without internal borders is reflected in a significant increase in unions, whatever their form, between nationals of different member states, as well as in the presence of these couples in member states of which they are not nationals, often accompanied by the acquisition of property located in the territory of several countries of the union. this proposal aims, in particular, to create a clear legal framework in the european union covering the determination of the competent court and the applicable law for the property aspects of such partnerships and to facilitate the circulation of decisions and acts between member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in 2007, there were some 211 000 registered partnerships in the eu, of which more than 41 000 had some link in terms of property regimes to more than one member state. of these unions, 8 500 (4%) ended in separation and 1 266 (0.6%) in the death of one of the partners. when, in the context of litigation or during the union of two partners, there are decisions to be taken in terms of property regimes, the persons involved are faced with very complex issues, especially as regards the law applicable to their case and the competent court. it is true that - in the case of registered unions even more so than in the case of marriages - the provisions vary greatly from one country to another. this situation creates considerable legal uncertainty. in addition, in the event of a dispute, the partner who has the best advice available may - as in the case of couples united by marriage - decide to go to a court which applies the law which seems to him to be more favourable. in the interests of legal certainty, i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which seeks to change this situation by proposing the possibility of choosing the law applicable to registered partnerships.
in writing. − partnerships registered in the eu generate considerable legal uncertainty, especially because they raise complex issues in the context of the dissolution of the partnership or during the merger of two partners. the rapporteur considers the commission proposal to be relevant, but argues that a single document could contain the discriminatory regulation of two different regulatory objects, as she does not agree that there is a substantive difference in content between the two proposals. the main point of the text is that the proposal does not allow for the choice of the law applicable to registered partnerships, justifying to the commission that the differences in the law of the member states would be remedied by linking the law of the state of registration of the partnership. the rapporteur, however, asked the european agency for human rights for an opinion, which concludes that another justification is needed in relation to the possibility of choice of law by couples. the rapporteur therefore proposes a rule which would allow registered partnerships to choose the law applicable to their property rights. i voted in favour of the report because i consider the proposed adjustment to be appropriate, in a laudable effort to bring the law into line with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. − a registered partnership is a form of union other than marriage, the specific content of the notion of registered partnership being defined by the national law of the member states. in march 2011, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of the property consequences of registered partnerships. the proposal aims to create a clear legal framework in the european union covering the determination of the competent court, the law applicable to the property aspects of such partnerships and facilitating the circulation of decisions and acts between member states. i am in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for legal clarification of the issues relating to the property effects of registered partnerships, so that there are no different interpretations in the different member states.
in writing. − this report aims to help solve problems arising in the context of litigation or during the union of two partners, when there are decisions to be taken in terms of property regimes (in more than one eu country). the report explains that the persons involved face very complex issues, especially as regards the law applicable to their case and the competent court. the laws vary widely from country to country in the case of registered unions, which creates legal uncertainty. the report proposes that the legal recognition of certain rules should be introduced to overcome these problems in the case of partnerships in terms of property regimes with a link to more than one member state. we agree with the objective, although we have serious reservations about the harmonization of private civil law, considering that coordination of judicial institutions is preferable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, considering that this report is essential to ensure equal rights in the choice of law for different forms of legal union and for the purposes of cross-border recognition, without derogating measures, in line with the council conclusions on fundamental rights and the rule of law adopted on 7 june 2013 as well as the 2012 commission report on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. - freedom of movement and the increasing mobility of persons in an area without internal frontiers have contributed to a significant increase in the number of unions between nationals of different member states, or of couples residing in a member state of which they are not nationals, where this is often accompanied by the acquisition of property situated in the territory of several countries of the union. the number of couples in the eu who have a link with more than one member state is estimated at around 20 million and they face numerous obstacles and complex issues, including the applicable law and the competent forum. the aim of this initiative is to address the practical and legal difficulties faced by transnational couples in the union, both in the day-to-day management of the couple's property and at the time of sharing (in the event of divorce or death of one of the spouses), thus enabling these couples to know more easily which courts and legislation apply to their property rights, and to facilitate the circulation of decisions and acts between member states. i therefore support the creation of a clear and coherent regulatory framework and the establishment of simpler, clearer and more accessible procedures.
in writing. − one in seven marriages in the eu involve nationals from more than one member state. this raises relevant property issues, in particular the application of the law on married couples' property regimes. as i have said, there must be some degree of harmonisation of the systems of marriage, which guarantees legal certainty for those involved, while the definition of these remains a competence primarily of the states.
in writing. − in 2007, more than one in seven couples in the eu (16 million) had a link with more than one member state, as did more than one in seven marriages (310 000) and divorces (137 000). in total, some 637 000 transnational marriages ended in divorce or the death of one of the spouses. the persons involved are confronted with complex issues, in particular as regards the applicable law and the competent court. the question of property regimes also arises in the management of assets during the marriage. they may also have repercussions on third parties, as in the case of real estate transactions or credit operations. the legal provisions underlying matrimonial property regimes vary widely between member states, as do the rules on the choice of court. in practice, therefore, it may be the case that the court with jurisdiction in one member state will assess the case in matters of property regimes differently from the court with jurisdiction in another member state. the aim is to reduce legal uncertainty.
in writing. the proposal for a report aims to create a regulatory framework in the european union for the determination of the competent court and the law applicable to matrimonial property regimes, with the aim of facilitating the circulation of judgments and acts between member states. these legal actions often concern the settlement of property, when a couple separates or when one of the spouses dies. the report aims to clarify the matrimonial property regimes as regards the applicable law and the competent court. although we are aware of our reservations about the harmonization of private civil law (we believe that greater coordination and cooperation between the judicial institutions is preferable), we recognize that the objectives pursued by this report are fair and relevant.
in writing. − the increasing mobility of people in an area without internal borders is reflected in a significant increase in unions, whatever their form, between nationals of different member states, as well as in the presence of these couples in member states of which they are not nationals, often accompanied by the acquisition of property located in the territory of several countries of the union. this proposal aims in particular to create a clear legal framework in the european union for the determination of the competent court and the law applicable to matrimonial property regimes and to facilitate the circulation of judgments and documents between member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in 2007, more than one in seven couples in the eu (16 million) had a link with more than one member state, as did more than one in seven marriages (310 000) and divorces (137 000). 390,000 international marriages ended in the death of one of the spouses. in total, some 637 000 transnational marriages ended in divorce or the death of one of the spouses. in all such cases, it is important to discuss and clarify the matrimonial regimes. in may 2011, the commission presented two parallel proposals on matters of matrimonial property regimes and registered partnerships, which include provisions on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. i voted in favour of the proposal on matrimonial property regimes and succession rights. the legal situation of the couples concerned has been substantially improved. this proposal introduces simpler, clearer and more accessible procedures in the field of civil justice. the increase in mobility means that even more couples will be affected in the future, and this regulation is therefore welcome, since regulatory certainty and clarity, as well as consistency with other legal acts of the european union, are essential.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes a number of amendments to clarify the scope of the regulation, in particular by clarifying the demarcation between this regulation and other areas of law. proposals for the adaptation of rights in rem are aligned with the regulation on succession rights. as regards the amendments proposed in the context of the provisions on the election of the court, the report only supplements them with amendments of a technical nature. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. finally, in the field of recognition, enforceability and enforcement, it is proposed, in view of the complexity of the procedures, to maintain the procedure for the enforcement of a judgment and to incorporate the corresponding provisions of the regulation on the succession rights. the law on matrimonial property regimes does not provide for a counterpart to the certificate of succession and it therefore appears essential to regulate the recognition and enforceability of instruments of matrimonial property regimes in the member states. given the need to improve the legal status of the legal provisions underlying the eu's matrimonial regimes, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - article 67 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the union is an area of freedom, security and justice, with respect for fundamental rights and for the different legal systems. point 4 of that article provides that the union is to facilitate access to justice, in particular through the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters. this regulation does not cover the concept of marriage, which is defined by the national law of each of the 28 member states. on the contrary, this regulation takes a neutral position with regard to this concept, without affecting the definition of it in the national legislation of the member states. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that there should be rules of private international law applicable to matrimonial property regimes, especially at a time when there is a growing trend towards marriage between people from different countries. i also think it is important that the proposal covers jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters exclusively to situations of a transnational nature.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. these lawsuits often concern the settlement of property, when a couple separates or when one of the spouses dies. the report aims to clarify the matrimonial property regimes as regards the applicable law and the competent court. we agree with the objective, although we have serious reservations about the harmonization of private civil law, considering that coordination of judicial institutions is preferable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, stressing that it calls for the alignment of research and innovation in the european union's transport policy, calling attention to noise reduction and greater support for small and medium-sized enterprises. in my view, the importance of optimising transport flows and their logistical networks is of vital importance in encouraging a change in behaviour on the part of citizens in relation to the use of public transport. fair pricing and integrated ticketing are key factors for competitiveness in the transport sector.
in writing. - mobility is an increasingly relevant issue in the lives of europeans. long gone are the days when the local community was the main horizon for most citizens. the increasingly fluid nature of economic and cultural activities calls for an intelligent interpenetration of national transport systems at the disposal of users and an integrated view of them that avoids duplication, maximises supply and enhances quality. intra-european mobility must seek to reconcile passenger comfort, technological research and innovation, environmental balance and the promotion of job creation in the transport sector. the ageing of europe's population, the desertification of large areas of its territory and the specific nature of certain types of regions such as mountainous or outermost regions must also be taken into account when we consider the steps we will take in the future in this field.
in writing. − the transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility in europe should promote quality of service, comfort for passengers and businesses and the use of sustainable mobility, building on the union's objectives and legislation on reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants and greenhouse gases. an alliance between research and innovation (r&i) and transport policy is desired. i believe that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) deserve special attention and should be given greater research opportunities, especially through standardised procedures and reduction of administrative burdens when using research funding schemes.
in the light of the commission communication, parliament is moving forward with guidelines for a transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility. a strategy to promote quality of service, passenger comfort and the use of sustainable mobility, based on the objectives of reducing energy consumption, noise and air pollution, as well as improving health and quality of life and enhancing safety. that is what the report says. however, the ongoing attacks on the public transport service, in which the eu has blatant responsibilities through the eu-imf programmes under way in countries such as portugal, are ignored. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the excellence-based approach underlying horizon 2020 expressed here is likely to promote discrimination and concentration of funds in a limited set of projects and countries of excellence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. there is a lack of clear advocacy for public transport and the importance of its management and ownership being kept in the public sphere.
in writing. − we should all be concerned with achieving the union's objectives in terms of reducing energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, ghg emissions, accidents, and land use, thereby reducing the impact of transport on climate change and contributing to improving the health and quality of life of eu citizens. there are still major challenges ahead in terms of better aligning research and innovation (r&i) with transport policy. it is urgent to make europe's transport technology strategy as efficient as possible in order to achieve economic, environmental and social gains, promoting sustainable growth and job creation. only with a large investment in research and innovation will sustainable mobility in europe be possible, with its inherent benefits at all levels, including in terms of economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − this report deals with the commission communication on research and innovation for europe's future mobility - outlining a european technology strategy for the transport sector. it is necessary to reduce the impact of transport on climate change, contributing to improving the health and quality of life of eu citizens. however, this must be done in a balanced manner and taking into account the geographical discontinuity of certain regions, in particular the outermost regions. there are many challenges in aligning research and innovation (r&i) with transport policy. a coordinated policy at this level is needed to eliminate the duplication of research efforts at national and eu level, which could undermine the urgently needed progress. efficient and coherent use of r&i resources is key to ensuring that the eu does not lose its leadership in research and technology to other international players. i voted in favour of this report which also calls for special attention to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) by creating more research opportunities, especially through standardised procedures and reducing the administrative burden when they use eu funding schemes.
in writing. − the report assesses the commission communication on research and innovation for europe's future mobility, recognising that the commission has identified weaknesses in the transport innovation system in europe that delay the union's response in the context of a low-carbon transport economy, a safer transport system, and the reduction of noise and air pollutants, which have such an impact on the health and quality of life of european citizens. the rapporteur therefore calls on the commission to take account of the priorities set out in the report when drawing up the european strategic plan. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. only a coherent and efficient use of resources can avoid duplication of effort at national and eu level. the role of smes is also appreciated, and the need to ensure easier access to eu funds and reduce administrative burdens is mentioned in this context, in order to help these companies to fully unlock the potential for innovation in the transport sector. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the priorities set.
in writing. − transport is one of the most important factors in the fight against climate change, due to its high co2 emissions. the coordination of research and innovation with transport policy is essential for the future sustainable mobility of the union. the report stresses the need for coordination of policies and resources between national research and innovation strategies and those of the union in the face of international competitors. innovation and research projects must move from paper to commercialisation. it also stressed that the union's fabric is composed mainly of smes and that, therefore, union funding schemes should be streamlined and made easier for them. i am in favour of the adoption of this report.
in writing. − following the european commission's communication, parliament is moving forward with guidelines for a transport technology strategy for a sustainable future of mobility. a strategy that aims to promote quality of service, passenger comfort and the use of sustainable mobility, based on the objectives of reducing energy consumption, noise and air pollution, as well as improving health and quality of life and enhancing safety. however, the ongoing attacks on the public transport service, in which the eu has blatant responsibilities through the eu-imf programmes under way in countries such as portugal, are ignored. the excellence-based approach underlying horizon 2020 expressed here is likely to promote discrimination and concentration of funds in a limited set of projects and countries of excellence, causing inequalities with which we cannot agree.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering first of all that clear common rules on access to a lawyer represent another step towards making the protection of fundamental rights a reality throughout the european union. i would also stress the efforts of my political group in ensuring that the principle of confidentiality was included in the directive in the negotiations without any possible derogation, and in establishing clear rules on the use of derogations under this directive so that all derogations were proportionate, strictly limited in time, so that it was not based solely on the seriousness of the alleged offences and so as not to prejudice the overall fairness of the procedure. we have also succeeded in ensuring that all suspects and accused persons have access to a lawyer in both member states of the proceedings.
in 2009, it was decided to start a phased approach, in which procedural rights in criminal proceedings should be dealt with in stages, and a roadmap was adopted, setting out six measures as a basis for future action. the progress made in the last three years is notable, with the adoption of the first two directives, which aim to guarantee the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings and the right to information respectively. this next step aims to address the divergences between member states as regards the provisions governing access to a lawyer, as well as their practical application, which raises doubts as to whether there is an adequate level of access to an effective defence in criminal proceedings and also calls into question the principle of mutual trust and mutual recognition. it thus provides that all suspects or accused persons shall have the right to access a lawyer as soon as possible and in a manner which enables them to exercise their rights of defence effectively. it also guarantees the right to communicate with family members, employers and consular authorities. i congratulate the rapporteur on the agreement she has been able to reach on the principle of confidentiality without any derogations. i support the commitment reached and hope that member states will swiftly implement it.
in writing. − i am a lawyer by profession and am fully aware of the irreplaceable role of lawyers' participation in the administration of justice, the importance they play in defending the most vulnerable and the need for their involvement in legal proceedings from the earliest stages. the fact that a person is detained under a european arrest warrant inevitably raises questions as to the detainee's actual ability to understand a trial that will be conducted in a language that may not be his or her own, and exacerbates the feeling of unprotectedness and alienation inherent in the deprivation of liberty. it therefore requires special attention and care. this misunderstanding and conditioning may compromise the fairness of the trial and the right to an effective defence. i am not unaware that the backlog of fundamental rights may increase the cost of justice, but i believe that fundamental rights should prevail over a purely financial perspective on this issue. that said, i believe that the union and the member states must cooperate to provide national courts with the human, technical and budgetary resources necessary to fully implement these rights, which, because of their importance, cannot risk being merely semantic.
in writing. − this proposal establishes the basic principle that all suspects or accused persons should be granted the right of access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a manner which enables them to exercise their rights of defence effectively. it also specifies that in any case these rights must be granted before the commencement of any interrogation, in the performance of any procedural act or in the taking of evidence and in the case of deprivation of liberty. it also identifies the content of the right, stresses that meetings between the suspect or accused person and his lawyer must be confidential, lists the derogations allowed from the general principles and provides for rules in the event of waiving the right to a lawyer. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report defends the right of all suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, whether or not they have been deprived of their liberty, to have access to a lawyer in a timely manner, so as to enable the person concerned to exercise his right of defence. in addition, member states shall ensure that suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty have the right to communicate without delay with a third person, such as a family member designated by them, or to be visited by their consular authorities; the right to speak and correspond with them and to obtain legal representation through them. this is a set of fundamental rights which are enshrined in this proposal and which deserve our full support. that is why we voted in favour of the report. however, we cannot fail to stress that this process is taking place in the context of other advances in the supranationalization of key aspects of justice, in particular the european arrest warrant, with which we disagree.
in writing. - the european parliament has long called for stronger protection of the rights of victims of crime on the one hand and of the suspect and accused on the other. this proposal establishes the basic principle that all suspects or accused persons should be granted the right of access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a manner that enables them to exercise their rights of defence effectively. it also specifies that in any case these rights must be granted before the commencement of any interrogation, in the performance of any procedural act or in the taking of evidence and in the case of deprivation of liberty. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the provisions of the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights are not uniformly implemented and respected by the member states, which gives rise to divergent rules in the european union. parliament has repeatedly stressed the need to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, stressing the need to strike the right balance between freedom, justice and security. the need to strengthen mutual trust has become even more imperative with the implementation of the programme on mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal proceedings. legislation adopted at eu level over the past few years has improved the efficiency of prosecutions and the enforcement of sentences across the eu, yet there is a consensus that the lack of measures at eu level to promote the rights of citizens as suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings in another member state has created a sense of imbalance in eu justice policies. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this proposal which seeks to make up for this lack of measures to promote the rights of citizens as suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings.
in writing. − the proposal for a european parliament and council directive aims at implementing a convergent normative standard, in line with the provisions of the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights, which, in the area of the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the right of communication after detention, ensures that citizens' rights are fully respected and their safety guaranteed when travelling. the directive should be implemented in all member states irrespective of their case law. the approach to the legal instrument now moves away from the ambitious claim of the framework decision on procedural rights put forward by the commission in 2004 and instead proposes a more realistic approach. given the urgency of guaranteeing minimum rights to a fair trial throughout the european union, in particular when suspects are detained as a result of a european mandate, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - article 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) enshrines judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the european union. it is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. i would point out that on 30 november 2009 the council adopted a roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, calling for measures to be taken on the right to translation and interpretation, to receive information on rights and on the charge, to receive legal advice and assistance and to communicate easily with family members, employers and consular authorities. i am in favour of this amendment to the directive because i believe that those involved in judicial proceedings should have the right to be equally protected and to receive special support if they are outside their country of origin, thus allowing for close monitoring by the authorities.
in writing. - this report deserved our support because it defends the right of all suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, whether or not they have been deprived of their liberty, to have access to a lawyer in good time, so as to enable the person concerned to exercise his right of defence. in addition, member states shall ensure that suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty have the right to communicate without delay with a third person, such as a family member designated by them, or to be visited by their consular authorities, the right to speak and correspond with them and to obtain legal representation through them. this is a set of fundamental rights which are enshrined in this proposal and which deserve our full support. however, we cannot fail to stress that these rights could be enshrined by strengthening cooperation between states, without resorting to supranationalization of the central aspects of justice, in particular through the european arrest warrant, by removing them from the sovereignty of states and their duty to safeguard the rights of their citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as this directive is the first european legislation in the area of bank loans for house purchase and the first legal text on financial reform focused on the retail banking product. housing loans are the most important financial commitment in the lives of european households and this market represents 52% of the gdp of the european union. the agreement reached by the council will help to revive the economies of many member states, while avoiding the irresponsible bank lending for housing that was at the root of the last crisis. in addition, in my view, this directive sets out the path and principles for a thorough reform of the european bank housing loan market to be implemented by the member states over the next two years.
in writing. the european parliament's report sets out new rules for the housing mortgage market, with the aim of ensuring greater transparency for all citizens who wish to buy a house with bank credit. given the high indebtedness of households, this legislation will help to combat this chronic problem. the new legislation aims to ensure that consumers do not take on risks to which they will not be able to respond appropriately. in this sense, from now on, anyone who wants to buy a house will get detailed information on the conditions of the loan to be acquired, with impartial advice on credit conditions, a cooling-off period, as well as a long-term analysis of the sustainability and solvency of the bond. in the event of default, the debtor will have more guarantees that his income is not fully seized in order to maintain a decent life, and the possibility of surrendering the property for full settlement of his obligations to the bank is ensured, if the parties so agree in advance. in view of the benefits and protection which this new law will bring to portuguese families, i support this report.
in writing. − this european parliament report aims to approve new rules for the housing mortgage market, with the aim of ensuring greater transparency for all citizens who intend to buy a house using bank credit. given the high indebtedness of households, this legislation could help to combat this chronic problem, one of the causes of the current crisis. the new legislation aims to ensure that consumers do not take on risks to which they will not be able to respond appropriately. in this sense, from now on, anyone who wants to buy a house will receive detailed information on the conditions of the loan to be acquired, with impartial advice on the credit conditions, a cooling-off period, as well as a long-term analysis of the sustainability and solvency of the bond. in the event of default, the debtor will have more guarantees that his income is not fully seized in order to maintain a decent life, and the possibility of surrendering the property for full settlement of his obligations to the bank is ensured, if the parties so agree in advance. in view of the benefits and protection which this new law will bring to portuguese families, i support this report.
in writing. − this directive seeks to improve the rules on credit agreements for the purchase of residential immovable property in order to make them fairer and more transparent for the contracting parties, in particular for the debtors. in portugal, 82% of credit granted to private individuals is for the purchase of residential property and since 2008 there has been an increase in bad debt in this same sector. the european parliament has therefore introduced new rules aimed at giving private individuals greater protection in this type of contract, in particular the prohibition of such contracts being dependent on the purchase of other insurance or financial products from the same bank, the possibility, by agreement, of the property covered by the contract being sufficient collateral for the payment of the loan and the termination of the contract, a period of at least 7 days for the debtor to reflect on accepting the contract, among others. the market for credit for house purchase, given its importance for households, should be properly regulated and transparent, allowing for a truly informed choice that reflects households' ability to pay.
in writing. - this proposal aims to limit the risks involved in buying a house, to better inform the consumer before the contract is concluded and to avoid the irresponsible granting and taking of loans which were one of the causes of the financial crisis. mortgages are often the most important long-term financial commitment a family makes. in 2009, mortgage lending accounted for 52.3% of eu gdp. the aim is to ensure that consumers are better informed about the risks and costs of taking out a mortgage before buying a house and are better protected in the event of non-payment. the new provisions also strengthen the transparency requirements on floating rate and foreign currency loans. lenders will have to provide clear and comprehensible general information on credit agreements, for example the range of different options available for repayment of the credit and any consequences of default. the consumer will be entitled to a seven-day cooling-off period before signing the mortgage contract, so that he can compare offers, assess their implications and make an informed decision. after the conclusion of the contract, you will also have a seven-day period for exercising the right of termination.
in writing. - this report seeks to introduce greater transparency into the process of granting loans for the purchase of housing, in particular: the provision of clearer, more detailed and properly explained information; an adequate check of the solvency of the individual or a family before credit is granted to them; and the need to properly adjust loan/value ratios, loan/income, debt/income. in essence, the report ends up keeping intact the mechanisms that allow banks to accumulate fabulous profits by extorting individuals and families. the main responsibility for credit problems continues to lie with the borrower, not the lender - the banks, who will continue to control the mechanisms of spreads and interest rates and to operate with impunity. in addition to the problems with credit agreements, there is also a desire to erode the power of the institutions of national sovereignty to define policies for the granting of credit, particularly in public banks, by centralising and harmonising these decisions, while also continuing the policies of replacing wages by credit. these are policies and guidelines that do not guarantee the fundamental right to housing as established by the constitution of the portuguese republic.
in writing. - with this proposal we are taking the first steps towards the creation of an internal market in mortgage credit. the mortgage market in the eu accounts for almost 50% of gdp, thus revealing its importance. on the other hand, taking out a mortgage is one of the most important financial decisions in anyone's life, involving a financial commitment that may last for decades. it is therefore important to combat irresponsible lending and borrowing in order to avoid a repetition of the conditions that led to the current financial crisis. that is the direction this proposal is going, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. − mortgages are often the most important long-term commitment a family makes. they are essential for access to homeownership (about 70% in the eu) and are of great economic importance. in 2009, mortgage lending amounted to €6 126 billion 52.3% of eu gdp. between 1998 and 2009, the market grew in almost all member states, although due to the crisis, there has been a decline since 2008. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to regulate mortgage markets in the eu to ensure that, before buying a house, consumers are better informed about the risks and costs of taking out a mortgage and better protected in the event of non-payment. the new provisions also strengthen the transparency requirements on floating rate and foreign currency loans. lenders will have to provide clear and comprehensible general information on credit agreements, for example the range of different options available for repayment of the credit and any consequences of default.
in writing. − this european parliament report aims to approve new rules for the housing mortgage market, with the aim of ensuring greater transparency for all citizens who intend to buy a house using bank credit. given the high indebtedness of households, this legislation could help to combat this chronic problem, one of the causes of the current crisis. the new legislation aims to ensure that consumers do not take on risks to which they will not be able to respond appropriately. in this sense, from now on, anyone who wants to buy a house will get detailed information on the conditions of the loan to be acquired, with impartial advice on credit conditions, a cooling-off period, as well as a long-term analysis of the sustainability and solvency of the bond. in the event of default, the debtor will have more guarantees that his income is not fully seized in order to maintain a decent life, and the possibility of surrendering the property for full settlement of his obligations to the bank is ensured, if the parties so agree in advance. in view of the benefits and protection which this new law will bring to portuguese families, i support this report.
in writing. − the current financial crisis has shown the irresponsible behaviour of some market players, which has damaged the foundations of the financial system, creating a certain degree of distrust among all parties, including markets, banks and customers, with serious economic and social consequences. i believe that financial literacy needs to be improved, in particular by providing more and better information on the interest rates that are available to citizens, the exchange rate risks involved in transactions or changes in the economic climate that ultimately harm the businesses concerned. i support this report in its efforts to improve the conditions for the establishment and functioning of the internal market by approximating the laws of the member states and by creating new standards for certain services. finally, i believe that it is essential that a system of good practice be adopted between the different member states and financial institutions so that the information made available to customers is always better.
in writing. − by introducing some aspects of greater transparency into the process of granting loans for the purchase of housing, namely the provision of clearer, more detailed and properly explained information, an adequate check on the solvency of the individual or a family before they are granted credit and the need to adjust appropriately the loan/value, loan/yield, debt/yield ratios, this report ends up keeping intact the mechanisms that allow banks to accumulate fabulous profits by extorting individuals and families. the main responsibility for credit problems continues to lie with the applicant and not with the banks, which will continue to control the mechanisms for the formation of spreads and to act with impunity. in addition to the problems with credit agreements, there is also a desire to erode the power of the institutions of national sovereignty to define policies for the granting of credit, particularly in public banks, by centralising and harmonising these decisions, while also continuing the policies of replacing wages by credit. these policies will not ensure the fundamental right to housing that the constitution of the portuguese republic establishes through the adoption of income policies compatible with family income and access to housing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that under the new rules aimed at combating insider dealing and market manipulation, the same requirements will be imposed on all member states which must ensure uniform market conditions and investor protection in the european union. i think this is the beginning of a long journey in european and world financial reform.
in writing. − the abuse of inside information and market manipulation cause many distortions in financial markets, causing instability and putting the functioning of a system at the mercy of private interests, which is deprived of its role in financing the real economy efficiently and fairly. insider trading occurs when someone uses information that is not publicly available to trade for their own benefit or that of another. it can happen when a market maker uses confidential information to buy shares in a company and gain illegitimate gains. this lack of transparency in the market destroys the confidence of economic operators in the market and undermines its functioning. the regulation extends the market abuse control legislation to all instruments traded on over-the-counter markets, multilateral trading facilities and other organised trading facilities. at the same time, it will tighten controls on the flow of information and allow access to information exchanged in the course of investment firms' activities, imposing sanctions on the perpetrators. this will improve investor protection, preserve the integrity of markets and ensure greater control of market manipulation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the abuse of inside information and market manipulation cause many distortions in financial markets, causing instability and putting the functioning of a system at the mercy of private interests, which is deprived of its role in financing the real economy efficiently and fairly. insider trading occurs when someone uses information that is not publicly available to trade for their own benefit or that of another. it can happen when a market maker uses confidential information to buy shares in a company and gain illegitimate gains. this lack of transparency in the market destroys the confidence of economic operators in the market and undermines its functioning. the regulation extends the market abuse control legislation to all instruments traded on over-the-counter markets, multilateral trading facilities and other organised trading facilities. at the same time, it will tighten controls on the flow of information and allow access to information exchanged in the course of investment firms' activities, imposing sanctions on the perpetrators. this will improve investor protection, preserve the integrity of markets and ensure greater control of market manipulation. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − this directive aims to list and delimit what is to be understood as market abuse in financial markets. in particular, from today, criminal authorities will only need to prove that there has been an improper sharing of information, rather than having to prove that there is a direct and explicit link between a particular sharing of information and the effect of it on a particular financial product. another relevant point will be the obligation for all member states to implement a criminal law which is truly coercive in such situations. this directive is part of a series of initiatives which have been taken by the european institutions to better regulate the financial services market and to prevent further economic crises such as those we are still witnessing today.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a common regulatory framework on market abuse in order to ensure the integrity of financial markets in the union and to promote investor confidence in those markets. indeed, a transparent, efficient and integrated financial market requires market integrity. the proper functioning of securities markets and public confidence in markets are essential conditions for economic growth and prosperity. market abuse situations undermine the integrity of financial markets and public confidence in securities and derivatives. market abuse is the umbrella concept of all unlawful behaviour in financial markets and for the purposes of this regulation it should be understood as consisting of insider dealing or insider trading and market manipulation.
in writing. − the current financial crisis has highlighted the importance of a transparent and integrity-based capital market. it is therefore necessary to strengthen financial supervision and regulation and to establish a framework of high standards, agreed at international level. the evaluation of the market abuse directive (mad) currently in force has revealed a number of problems that have had a negative impact on the transparency and integrity of the market. the initiative thus aims to increase market integrity and investor protection, while ensuring a single set of rules and a level playing field and making securities markets more attractive for raising capital. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse). the proposal for a regulation establishes a specific definition of inside information in respect of emission allowances. the commission considers that the conditions for the use of the financial instrument are met, and that the conditions for the use of the financial instrument are met. the information to be disclosed will normally relate to the physical activity of the reporting party, such as capacity and use of facilities. the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to include emission allowances in the market abuse framework, to ensure that organised trading is always carried out in regulated trading facilities, complying with virtually identical requirements of transparency, organisation and market surveillance.
in writing. − the abuse of inside information and market manipulation cause many distortions in financial markets, causing instability and putting the functioning of a system at the mercy of private interests, which is deprived of its role in financing the real economy efficiently and fairly. insider trading occurs when someone uses information that is not publicly available to trade for their own benefit or that of another. it can happen when a market maker uses confidential information to buy shares in a company and gain illegitimate gains. this lack of transparency in the market destroys the confidence of economic operators in the market and undermines its functioning. the regulation extends the market abuse control legislation to all instruments traded on over-the-counter markets, multilateral trading facilities and other organised trading facilities. at the same time, it will tighten controls on the flow of information and allow access to information exchanged in the course of investment firms' activities, imposing sanctions on the perpetrators. this will improve investor protection, preserve the integrity of markets and ensure greater control of market manipulation. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − when an individual has inside information and uses that information to acquire or dispose, for his own account or for the account of a third party, directly or indirectly, of financial instruments to which that information relates, it is considered that there is a change in the normal market rules. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the abuse of inside information eventually becomes a disruption of the normal functioning of the market and a serious blow to the principle of transparency which should be applied. i believe that measures are needed to deepen the market, since this is essential if europe is to return to a new phase of economic growth, job creation and wealth creation.
in writing. - this proposal does not create the conditions necessary to deal seriously with illicit - in many cases even criminal - behaviour on financial markets. instead of putting an end to the growing financialisation of the economy, the free movement of capital and financial speculation in the capital markets - which are largely responsible for the crisis we are facing - only a few palliatives with limited effect are defined. the proposal excludes from its scope monetary activities and the management of public debt, maintaining this haven which has served speculation and through it the imposition of the destruction of social and labour rights of a civilizational dimension in countries like portugal. it also promises to grant national supervisory authorities a number of discretionary rights, such as access to private premises and the seizure of documents and records of electronic communications, data transmission and telephone conversations, both of investment firms and of communications operators, excluding such validation activities by entities, including judicial entities, which verify the objectivity of their justification and the good faith with which they are conducted. it sets out as one of its methods of investigating these illicit activities the use of internal whistleblowers from the organisations to which it proposes to pay incentives. the notorious buffoons are paid for their activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that the adoption of a basic regulation will have a direct impact on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the straits and the oresund and will bring about significant changes to the regulation under discussion. proposing such amendments at this stage raises the risk that these amendments will not be in line with the provisions of the basic regulation. however, we believe that the commission should propose new and amended regulations on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the straits and the sound.
in writing. − the need to bring existing legislation into line with the lisbon treaty's dictates as to the type of acts to be adopted by the european commission has led to several changes to these diplomas. council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 did not escape this rule. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i consider this a prudent approach and one which seeks to facilitate the achievement of possible consensus in the important debates on a subject of such importance to the member states as fisheries and the conservation of fishery resources.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 of 21 december 2005 on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea and the great belt, small belt and øresund straits through the application of technical measures confers on the commission powers to implement some of its provisions. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. implementing powers should be conferred on the commission in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 as regards measures adopted by member states applying exclusively to fishing vessels flying their flag. the powers to adopt detailed rules for the implementation of regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 are no longer necessary. the provision conferring such powers should therefore be deleted. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 lays down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources in the waters of the baltic sea and the great belt, small belt and øresund straits. that regulation provides, inter alia, for specific provisions on the size and type of all components of fishing gear, including the mesh. the commission proposal aims to align this regulation with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, concerning delegated and implementing acts. it proposes the introduction of delegated acts in the following areas: to amend the rules on the construction of certain gears, such amendments to reflect changes in the standards of selectivity of fishing, new technical knowledge in construction materials or modifications in gear fittings that may increase the selectivity of gears. furthermore, implementing powers are conferred on the commission in order to ensure uniform conditions for the application of regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 as regards measures taken by member states applying only to fishing vessels flying their flag. the rapporteur, giving his general agreement to the commission's proposal, proposes that the delegation of powers to the commission should be limited in time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal from the european parliament and the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005. however, i would point out that since 2010 the commission has had the opportunity to use the delegation of power provided for in article 290 tfeu in several of its proposals for regulations and directives. in this way, a number of delegated acts have already been adopted. i think it is time to examine the use of this procedure and draw conclusions about the way in which the monitoring system has worked, so as to prevent or correct any excesses or abuses which might obstruct the democratic rules of the community of law which is the european union.
in writing. - the purpose of this report is to review council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 on the conservation of fishery resources through the application of technical measures in the baltic sea, its straits (belts) and the sound, in view of the need to align it with the new comitology established under the lisbon treaty. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) establishes a new regulatory hierarchy consisting of three distinct levels of acts, namely legislative acts, delegated acts and implementing acts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with most of the amendments to this regulation.
in writing. − the numerous disputes surrounding the application of the regulation at hand compel the rapporteur to propose a new draft regulation which is profoundly amended, the effectiveness of the measures defined being reviewed in order to ensure their full compatibility with regulation (ec) no 2187/2005. however, at this stage, when the commission, parliament and council are still negotiating the future of the common fisheries policy, it would be unwise to go beyond the normal process of adapting the rules to the changes required by the treaty of lisbon. the rapporteur therefore accepts the proposal to align the regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea by replacing the current council decisions with implementing decisions, while introducing a provision on the need for the commission to propose a new draft regulation to control the use of technical measures. in considering the advantages of giving the eu the possibility to react quickly to the application of measures in accordance with the directives, by means of implementing acts provided for in the lisbon treaty, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the purpose of this document is to align council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 on the conservation of fishery resources in the baltic sea and its straits (the belts) and the øresund by means of technical measures with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards delegated and implementing acts. the adoption of a new regulation on the common fisheries policy will have a direct impact on the use of technical measures in the waters of the baltic sea, its straits and the sound, which will require further adaptations of the regulation on this area. the rapporteur, however, considered it premature to move forward with such changes at this stage. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document in parliament.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 lays down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources in the waters of the baltic sea, its straits (the belts) and the sound. that regulation provides, inter alia, for specific provisions on the size and type of all components of fishing gear, including the mesh. the commission proposal aims to align this regulation with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, concerning delegated and implementing acts. it proposes the introduction of delegated acts in the following areas: to amend the rules on the construction of certain gear, new technical knowledge in construction materials or changes in gear fittings that may increase the selectivity of gear. the rapporteur, giving his general agreement to the commission's proposal, proposes that the delegation of powers to the commission should be limited in time. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which calls for the need for a complete integration and interconnection of the energy market, in order to reduce costs and focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency and smart buildings. in my view, a stronger european internal energy market will result in security of supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry and, in the end, contribute to a more sustainable economy. in my view, it is up to the member states to implement it fully on the ground.
in writing. − an open, competitive, integrated and flexible european energy market will maintain security of supply and achieve lower and more transparent prices, improving european competitiveness and contributing to economic growth and consumer welfare. end-users are at the heart of the internal energy market and must be adequately protected and informed through facilitated access to information in order to enable them to fully exercise their rights and to encourage them to play a more active role in stimulating market competitiveness. the lack of full implementation of legislation relating to the internal energy market remains one of the main obstacles to the completion of this market. in this regard, member states should fully transpose and implement all relevant eu legislation, in particular the third energy package, as soon as possible, and the european commission should take action against member states where implementation has been unduly delayed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the principles included in the buzek report of creating an integrated, open, well-regulated and competitive internal energy market. an integrated internal market, together with investment in science and research to develop new technologies, will ensure clean, cheap and affordable energy for all european citizens. affordable energy for all is a key objective for the competitiveness of european industry and for the well-being of people.
in writing. − sustainable growth without undermining competitiveness requires a consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the internal energy market and the development of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence and clean energy production. the proper functioning of the internal market, which is more open and transparent, has the potential to maintain security of supply and lower prices for consumers.
in writing. − member states have committed themselves to meeting the deadlines for the full completion of the internal energy market by 2014 and for the abolition of energy islands in the eu by 2015. indeed, a completed internal energy market is indispensable for the union's energy security and sustainability and is also key to competitiveness, economic growth and job creation in the union. the aim is to improve coordination and cooperation of energy policies between member states in a spirit of solidarity and to create efficient and secure cross-border energy systems, which will represent a major european added value. there is no doubt that the development of domestic resources will give rise to new trading platforms in the eu, as well as to the spot markets for gas and electricity, which represents a real opportunity for the eu and the member states to determine their own energy prices, including at regional and local level.
in the case of the commission, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the liberal and commercial propaganda is here explained to the last detail in defence of the implementation of the third energy package. the wonders of liberalization, of sacrosanct free competition and competitiveness - always propagated and always, but always denied by reality - are repeated to the point of nausea. but who is celebrating, who is benefiting and has always benefited from the privatization of public energy services? it was not the workers, it was not the small and medium-sized enterprises, it was not the households, who were dealing with substantial increases in their energy bills. it was the large economic groups that came to dominate the sector, it was the large transnational monopolies that accumulate enormous profits at the expense of a service that should be public and serve the real interests of the people. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − the european internal energy market and the respective national energy markets must be competitive and offer genuine choice and transparent information to all consumers, who play a central role in the energy market. the completion of the internal energy market is also essential to reduce energy prices and costs and to achieve affordable and competitive prices in the short, medium and long term. there can be european added value through better coordination and cooperation of energy policies between member states in a spirit of solidarity and through the creation of efficient and secure cross-border energy systems, thus generating synergies through better management of energy supply and demand, facilitated by smart technologies at the distribution system level. the internal energy market must function properly if final consumers are to derive the greatest benefit from it. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the buzek report on the internal energy market because there can be no single european market without an integrated energy market, given the importance of energy. only an internal energy market can guarantee access to energy for eu businesses and citizens on equal terms throughout the union. for the union to fully achieve these objectives, it is essential to ensure the completion and deployment of fully connected cross-border energy networks and efficient energy transmission infrastructures that eradicate energy islands in the eu. this applies from the outset to the iberian peninsula and to cross-border energy connections. the eu should explore the possibility of creating a european investment fund, as proposed in the report, financed by a compulsory contribution from energy consumption, a point which, however, did not receive the necessary majority. the single energy market requires direct involvement of the union and sources of own financing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on the functioning of the internal energy market because i agree with most of its premises. an open, competitive, integrated and flexible european energy market will maintain security of supply and lower and more transparent prices, enhance european competitiveness and contribute to economic growth and consumer welfare, and it is therefore urgent to remove the remaining physical, regulatory and administrative barriers that hinder the open and efficient functioning of the market. however, only a stable regulatory framework will be able to attract the investments needed for the continued development of this market.
in writing. − considering how essential the completion of the internal energy market is for the union's energy security and sustainability, the roadmap outlines an energy policy based on three fundamental pillars: reducing dependence on fossil fuel imports, which exposes countries to the market power of their sole supplier, whose pricing policy does not always follow a market logic; promoting energy efficiency, including the modernisation of the distribution network, fully integrated in a european context, and intelligent cross-border; and investing in technology and innovation, leading to the development of cheaper, more effective and simpler technologies. to this end, it is imperative to make sufficient funding available for the development of the internal market, whether through the use of regional development funds, cohesion funds or other structural funds to help with future energy and climate challenges. northern and eastern europe are dependent on gas imports from a single source, the member states remain an energy island due to insufficient infrastructure links with the rest of europe, and investment in the energy sector is at historically low levels. i voted in favour.
in writing. − an internal energy market is only possible if member states fully transpose and implement union legislation, in particular the third energy package. the report calls for the union and the member states to take a stand to make this market more transparent, competitive, easy to manage and to offer european citizens a free choice and competitive prices. the union must also take account of the outermost regions, which, as islands, are cut off from the rest of europe by gas and electricity networks. for this reason, consumers pay a higher price for the same access. a more effective effort and coordination by the union, the member states and third countries is therefore needed for a genuine internal energy market.
in writing. - this report is a clear demonstration of how the majority of this parliament is following, supporting and promoting, as enthusiastically as the european commission, the deepening and acceleration of the process of liberalisation and privatisation of services which, in many cases, are still public. this is the report that looks forward to the celebration of the implementation of the third energy package. the feast of liberalisation, of sacrosanct competitiveness and free competition. but who is celebrating, who is benefiting and has always benefited from the privatization of public energy services? it was not the workers, it was not the small and medium-sized enterprises. it was the big economic groups that came to dominate the sector, it was the big transnational monopolies that accumulate huge profits at the expense of a service that should be public and serve the real interests of the populations. we do not agree that public funds are invested only to satisfy private interests when energy resources should be in the public domain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, supporting all necessary and effective measures to be taken to ensure that the european union's 2020 objectives can be achieved. i also believe that energy efficiency measures within cohesion policy represent a great potential for this objective, contributing in the long term to the sustainable economy of regions and member states and in the short term to economic growth through investment in energy.
in writing. − energy efficiency, a key priority for the european commission and the member states, is at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, with one of its objectives being to increase energy efficiency by 20%. reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, leading to a reduction in imports of around 25%. thus, local and regional authorities must be given appropriate powers and responsibilities, not only in relation to energy supply and use, but also in relation to the achievement of energy efficiency objectives. member states should introduce simple and non-bureaucratic procedures in their operational programmes for the use of funds intended to improve energy efficiency in households. they should also share best practices in designing national energy efficiency funds, where european structural and investment funds can be used as capital contributions. the european commission should continue to improve the quality and dissemination of practical information on energy efficiency available to local and regional authorities. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − in a region of the world with a large energy deficit, the issue of energy efficiency is of strategic importance and cannot therefore fail to be seriously considered by european and national policy-makers. the energy available to the union should be used prudently and efficiently in order to prevent and prevent, as far as technically possible, its waste and misuse. europe's potential for energy efficiency is not being realised. energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy have not had a uniform effect throughout the union and are far from being considered an absolute success. the commission has therefore decided to continue with the work already started and to maintain and strengthen the energy efficiency measures under this policy. national, regional and local authorities, as well as businesses and citizens' groups, must be actively involved in this challenge for all.
in writing. − at the heart of the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in the eu. however, the eu faces a huge challenge in meeting its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more decisive role. energy efficiency requires the use of fewer means of energy production for an equivalent level of service or economic activity. reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, thus leading to a reduction in imports of around 25%. the european structural and investment funds should contribute to encouraging private investment in energy-efficient products, transport modes, buildings, industries, works and services, and can also help to reduce the costs of energy bills for public authorities and allow for a more efficient use of public resources.
in writing. − the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is very important and the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in the eu. the challenge to meet its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020 is great, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more active role. improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for europe's competitiveness and a win-win option in the fight against climate change. investment in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, the creation of employment and growth opportunities, and an incentive to transition to a low-carbon economy. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised in the eu. however, the eu faces a huge challenge in meeting its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, in which policies to promote energy efficiency can and should play a more decisive role. improvements in energy efficiency are crucial for europe's competitiveness and a win-win option in the fight against climate change. investment in energy efficiency measures can bring immediate and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, the creation of employment and growth opportunities, and an incentive to transition to a low-carbon economy. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with these objectives and the proposals to achieve them.
in writing. − in the synthesis report on the implementation of the european semester, the president of the council concludes that the observations of the national delegations suggest that the negative factors in the development of energy efficiency were more practical than regulatory in nature, in particular inadequate information and financial incentives, low profile of energy efficiency and inadequate implementation of existing legislation. the report on the implementation of energy efficiency measures thus meets the eu's commitment to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 through timely and cost-effective implementation, which has the potential to significantly reduce energy consumption and dependence on fossil fuel imports, create new jobs, provide social protection and eradicate energy poverty. i voted in favour of the report which proposes a clear exercise of the obligations of energy efficiency measures in the implementation procedures, that is, of operational programmes which ensure tangible results.
in writing. − a part of the european union's structural funds is allocated to energy efficiency aspects, mainly at the level of buildings. this is indeed a cohesion policy vector that is becoming increasingly important, and this will be confirmed in the next programming period from 2014 to 2020. in the next period up to 2020, cohesion policy should not only take into account the effects achieved so far in the field of energy efficiency, but also deliver on the objectives in this field in line with the european, national and regional objectives under cohesion policy. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the report aims to encourage more projects in the area of energy efficiency under cohesion policy. this is an important subject, and it is useful and necessary to deal with it. unfortunately, the report is largely a lost opportunity. instead of a serious reflection on the problems of cohesion policy, a critical approach to its limitations and shortcomings, and the many contradictions between eu policies and the objective of cohesion, the report opts for a superficial approach. it advocates the concentration of public resources in large private groups, in public-private partnerships, the result of which is clearly visible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that multilingualism and interpretation are essential for parliament to be transparent to the public and for its legislators to work with highly technical information in their own language and in the language of the people of their member state. efficiency and cost-effectiveness are extremely important, although we believe that these aspects should not erode the availability of live and accessible information in the language of the listener and the viewer throughout the european union. consideration of these users and their needs is central to addressing this issue, as the european parliament is the institution that represents european citizens through its universal suffrage with representatives from all member states.
in writing. − promoting the establishment of a union strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basin could provide an important stimulus to the development of sustainable economic activities in that region, which could have a positive impact on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. the fact that not all the states bordering these seas are members of the union should not deter them from making this effort, but should encourage them to use more imagination in defining actions and commitments aimed at effective crossborder cooperation for the benefit of all and which do not restrict but rather encourage their interaction.
in writing. − this report aims to promote the development of a new european union strategy in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the adriatic and ionian seas basin, in order to give a substantial boost to the development of sustainable activities with positive effects on coastal communities and inland border areas. the adriatic and ionian seas constitute an important maritime zone covering seven countries: three member states (italy, greece and slovenia), one member in the near future (croatia), one candidate country (montenegro) and two potential candidate countries (albania and bosnia and herzegovina). although there have always been strong economic and social relations between these countries - now strengthened by the eu accession process - the adriatic and ionian area has remained economically, environmentally and culturally heterogeneous.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of developing economically sustainable activities for the benefit of coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. we agree with the general approach of the report to greater and better cooperation between the countries and regions bordering the adriatic and ionian seas. however, we do not support the rapporteur's proposals for the commission to put in place an appropriate legislative framework to promote closer cooperation between these countries and regions. we also oppose proposals that make it possible to use project bonds and public-private partnerships as appropriate funding instruments for the actions and objectives of this strategy, and sanction measures for member states that do not comply with their obligations to collect and transmit data.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to promote the development of a new european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas basin, with the aim of substantially boosting the development of sustainable economic activities with positive effects on coastal communities and inland border areas. the adriatic and ionian seas constitute an important maritime zone covering seven countries: four member states (italy, greece, slovenia and croatia), one candidate country (montenegro) and two potential candidate countries (albania and bosnia and herzegovina). although there have always been strong economic and social relations between these countries - now strengthened by the eu accession process - the adriatic and ionian area has remained economically, environmentally and culturally heterogeneous. riverside countries currently share many resources, including fisheries resources, and therefore face a number of challenges directly or indirectly linked to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, such as sea pollution, coastal erosion, differences in economic development of coastal areas and increasing urbanisation. there must be a joint effort to develop a common strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian seas.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to promote a new european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian sea basins, which will substantially boost the development of sustainable activities with positive impacts on the coastal communities of these sea basins. this important maritime zone encompasses seven countries with strong social and economic links, although with considerable environmental, cultural, social and economic heterogeneity. this group of countries shares a range of resources and faces similar challenges in their fisheries and aquaculture sectors, which makes it absolutely vital to foster international cooperation between neighbouring countries to promote sustainable exploitation and joint and coherent management of fisheries and aquaculture activities. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed can promote a balanced and sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture activities in this important geographical area.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has become a full-fledged co-legislator for the fisheries and aquaculture sector and therefore intends to play its role in defining the new eu macro-regional strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas. the objective is to promote the development of sustainable and responsible economic activities whose beneficial effect does not compromise the protection of fishery resources and the specific geomorphological and bathymetric characteristics of the adriatic-ionian basin. although there are some examples of good interregional cooperation (such as the establishment of special zones), much of the adriatic sea basin remains part of international waters, which determines the need for closer cooperation with neighbouring countries with a view to concluding bilateral and multilateral agreements, which will advance the harmonization and standardisation of fisheries management rules. in this respect, my vote supports parliament's report on the strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian seas and calls on the commission to promote the measures envisaged.
in writing. − this report seeks to promote a new european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian basin, capable of promoting the development of economic activities that are viable in the long term and have a positive impact on coastal communities and related activities. the strategy shall define feasible actions and joint initiatives to address existing challenges and the opportunities to be taken into account in the cross-border dimension of the strategy. it is a strategy which will be developed and take on the contours of a macro-regional strategy, covering several areas and making the most of the synergies between the various activities and programmes, which is why i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of developing economically sustainable activities for the benefit of coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. we agree with the general approach of the report to greater and better cooperation between the countries and regions bordering the adriatic and ionian seas. however, we do not support the rapporteur's proposals for the commission to put in place an appropriate legislative framework to promote closer cooperation between these countries and regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that multilingualism and interpretation are essential for parliament to be transparent to the public and for its legislators to work with highly technical information in their own language and in the language of the people of their member state. efficiency and cost-effectiveness are extremely important, although we believe that these aspects should not erode the availability of live and accessible information in the language of the listener and the viewer throughout the european union. consideration of these users and their needs is central to addressing this issue, as the european parliament is the institution that represents european citizens through its universal suffrage with representatives from all member states.
in writing. - the right of each member to be able to express himself in his own language and the right of citizens to have direct access to parliament's legislative work also in their national language cannot be called into question. to do so would mean accepting the existence of first-class and second-class european citizens. the european parliament and its services must therefore be equipped to respond positively to the challenge of making the maximum amount of information available in the maximum number of languages in the minimum amount of time. this legitimate and fully justified translation and interpretation effort is being done at the expense of taxpayers' money. it is therefore called for to be used seriously and efficiently. the counterpart to the right to speak and read in one's own language is precisely the duty not to require resources and services which will not be used, so as not to place an unnecessary burden on the community budget.
in writing. − one of the main aims of this report is to raise awareness of the need to improve the efficiency of multilingualism, without compromising the overall quality and without calling into question the right of members to use in parliament the official language of their choice. the european union (eu) is the only entity in the world to have an official multilingualism policy based on 24 official languages. in 2011, there were 5263 days of sitting and approximately 100 000 days of interpreting, of which 47,74% were provided by external interpreters and 52,26% by actual interpreters. parliament's interpretation service is of a high quality. despite the measures taken by the bureau in the context of full multilingualism in interpreting with efficient use of resources, costs remain considerable and resources are not always used efficiently. in 2010, an amount of eur 6,05 million was made available, which was not used due to late cancellations. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary was limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the project. over the past three years, €15.93 million was wasted due to late applications and cancellations.
in writing. - this report is intended to strike a further blow at the principle of multilingualism. in addition to the cuts made in previous years (in this year's budget they were over 20%) they advocate further cuts in the future, even with the addition of an official language, with the entry of croatia, and taking into account the additional costs that this entails. as always, the cuts are justified on the pretext of increasing the efficiency of interpretation services. the effects of the cuts already made in the quality and scope of services and in the limitation of the right of members to express themselves and to work in their mother tongue are ignored. there are already clear shortcomings in interpretation services, such as the absence of interpretation for some languages in committee and delegation meetings where the respective members are present, or in numerous working meetings such as meetings of shadow rapporteurs and others. this report also sets out the way forward for the promotion of precarious employment among interpreters, putting their jobs and their rights at risk. this is unacceptable. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. - interpretation costs in the european parliament are very high and should be used more efficiently to achieve savings, which are very important in these times of crisis. the court of auditors' report on the effective use of interpretation services has shown that improvements can be made, particularly in organisational matters, by ensuring that members have the right to speak and to hear other speeches in the official language of their choice. the report revealed an inefficient use of interpretation services and a need for greater awareness of the costs of interpretation and the waste of resources. only by using services effectively can we have a service of excellence at acceptable costs. this report sets out solutions for obtaining a more efficient and more economical interpreting service, hence my vote.
in writing. − in 2005, the european court of auditors presented to the committee on budgetary control its special report no 5/2005 on interpretation expenditure incurred by the parliament, the commission and the council. as regards parliament, the special report aimed to explore possible improvements, focusing on organisational issues and ensuring that members had the right to speak and hear other speeches in the official language of their choice. the report revealed an inefficient use of interpretation services and a need for greater awareness of the costs of interpretation and the waste of resources. i voted in favour of this report, one of whose main aims is to raise awareness of the need to improve the efficiency of multilingualism, without compromising the overall quality and without calling into question the right of members to use in parliament the official language of their choice. multilingualism is one of the european parliament's distinguishing features.
in writing. - the european union works in the 23 official languages. this diversity has a high cost, but it remains a sine qua non condition for its members to be able to express themselves in their own languages. the aim of this report is to raise awareness once again of the need for more efficient management of resources, which will allow a substantial reduction in the costs associated with interpretation.
in writing. - this report is intended to give a further blow to the principle of multilingualism. in addition to the cuts made in previous years (in this year's budget they were over 20%) they advocate further cuts in the future, even with the addition of an official language, with the entry of croatia, and taking into account the additional costs that this entails. there are already clear shortcomings in interpretation services, such as the absence of interpretation for some languages in committee and delegation meetings where the respective members are present, or in numerous working meetings such as meetings of shadow rapporteurs and others. for these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which goes against the european commission's intention to launch an action plan including a set of common actions and principles to be applied with regard to online games in the internal market. i should like to highlight some of the positive achievements already in defining and clarifying that gambling is not a normal economic activity and the principle of subsidiarity must be applied in this area. it was also considered that the protection of consumers and human health, as well as the fight against crime and tax evasion, should be the main principles of recommendations to be made at european level.
in writing. − online gambling is one of the fastest growing service activities in the eu, with annual rates of almost 15% and an estimated annual revenue of €13 billion by 2015. it continues to develop in parallel with the rapid evolution of online technologies. the online gambling sector differs from other markets due to the risks involved in terms of consumer protection and the fight against organised crime, as recognised on several occasions by the court of justice of the european union. in this regard, it is recommended that common uniform and pan-european security standards be established for electronic identification and cross-border electronic verification services. strengthen the exchange of best practices between member states on enforcement measures, the development of secure and traceable payment solutions, and consider the feasibility of measures to block financial transactions to ensure that consumers do not fall into the hands of illegal operators. operators should also warn minors on their websites - in a clear and unambiguous manner and in prominent characters - that their participation in online gambling is illegal. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the online gambling market is growing steadily and, although its turnover is in the millions, it is still largely unregulated, with all the dangers this poses to consumers. this is therefore an area which lacks attention and self-regulation. however, in line with what is advocated by the vast majority of states, the powers in the field of gambling should remain with the member states, and the eu may establish guidelines and guidance in respect of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − gambling is not a normal economic activity because of its potentially negative social and health impacts, notably compulsive gambling, the impact and costs of which are difficult to quantify. gambling can be highly addictive and should therefore be addressed in the legislative proposal for the benefit of consumers and the integrity of this sport. online gambling may pose a higher risk of addiction than traditional face-to-face gambling, in particular due to easier access and the absence of social control, although further research and data are needed in this area. a high level of consumer protection, in particular for the most vulnerable, needs to be ensured. in addition, the provision of gambling services defined by each member state has to comply with union law in order to reduce the social costs and harmful effects of gambling activities. the commission and the member states should take action against illegal gambling services. in this context, member states are called upon to take repressive measures against illegal gambling offers.
in writing. - this report expresses concerns which we believe are justified with regard to online gaming. the commission has already stressed that these can lead to serious gambling addiction problems; it has stressed that access to these types of games is easier, particularly for young people; and it has pointed out that they can be used as a means of money laundering. we follow these concerns and some of the solutions that are proposed, such as the right of any customer to self-exclude from all dealers; the need for greater regulation of advertising; and the obligation for all companies providing these services to register as authorised entities in the eu. we do not share some of the report's views on the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on gambling are respected.
in writing. - online gambling is a fast-growing service activity in the eu, with annual growth rates of almost 15%. the economic importance of the sector is well demonstrated by the high level of innovation in the sector in the eu and the increasing amount of tax revenues generated in the member states. member states are free to set the objectives of their gambling policy and to define in detail the level of protection they seek. in any case, national regulatory frameworks must comply with eu law and the principles and rules governing the internal market. ensuring that national legislation is in conformity with the treaty is therefore an indispensable condition for the success of eu policy in the field of online gambling. that is the intention of this report, so that we can have community legislation to enable the sustainable growth of this economic activity, which may prove very important in terms of tax revenue for the member states.
in writing. - i know . i voted in favour of the fox report on internet gambling because i believe that it is essential to strengthen the regulation of this activity in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection, given the addictive nature of gambling, given the transnational nature of this sector and the risk of its exploitation for money laundering and profit-driving. it was also in this spirit that i voted in favour of a provision which would allow member states to cooperate in banning access to illegal websites. however, unfortunately, this amendment was not approved by the ep plenary. the internet cannot be accepted as an oasis for economic activity outside the laws of the union and the member states. the enshrinement of an anarchist-libertarian tendency that seeks to ensure legal immunity or general amnesty for illegal economic activities carried out on the internet is absolutely unacceptable. the rule of law is incompatible with sectors or activities exempt from compliance with the law and therefore the union and the states cannot fail to enforce compliance with it, regardless of the environment in which such activity is carried out. the ep has once again sent the wrong signal to society and its citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which advocates compliance with community legislation in this area and stresses that providers of online gambling services must always respect the national laws of the member states in which they operate and that, at the same time, member states should have the right to impose restrictions which they consider necessary and justified to tackle illegal online gambling in order to implement national legislation and exclude illegal providers from market access.
in writing. − the european commission has presented a communication on the main challenges of online gambling within the internal market, in which it identifies several areas that need to be considered and some actions towards having a european framework. among its recommendations are cooperation between member states and the strengthening of measures, a high level of consumer protection throughout the european union and the fight against money laundering and the manipulation of results. however, no legislative measure is considered by the commission. the report by parliament deals with the specific nature of gambling, highlighting some concerns such as respect for the principle of subsidiarity in the regulation of online gambling and responsible advertising alongside the other measures presented by the commission. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report expresses legitimate concerns about online games. of course, because gambling can cause serious problems of addiction, because it is easier to access, especially for young people, and because it can be used as a means of money laundering. we are following these concerns and some of the solutions that are being proposed, such as the right of any customer to self-exclude from all dealers, there being more regulation of advertising, and all companies providing these services having to be registered as authorised entities in the eu. however, we do not think that it makes sense to apply internal market rules in this area of gambling control. the member states must retain their autonomy and have full legitimacy to legislate in this area, following the traditions of their countries, ensuring the most appropriate level of protection for consumers and the interests of the population.
in writing. - i wish mr luigi berlinguer every success in the performance of the duties entrusted to him.
mr president, in july this year parliament adopted by a large majority, by the three largest groups in this parliament, a resolution on the multiannual financial framework. my group voted against this agreement because we felt, of course, that it reduced the multiannual budget for the next seven years, even in absolute terms compared to the previous financial framework, and it did not have the right options. i think the result is in sight. the council has just confirmed to us today that there will be cuts in the first budget for this multiannual financial framework, which is the 2014 budget. what happens now is that we still have, we are discussing the 2013 amending budget in september 2014, that is, a whole set of payments that are overdue, and it is only in question that we vote on the first tranche. it is essential that we do so, but this reflects a successive over-budgeting in several budget years. and this is impossible. this europe cannot go on. this parliament cannot allow this consecutive over-budgeting.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, commissioner, a stronger, deeper and more effective response to the scourge of unemployment is imperative. bringing millions of young people who are excluded - by unemployment or precariousness - into the world of work, giving them hope in a life project to which they are entitled is the greatest challenge we face and one we cannot fail to overcome. what future europe can we build if young people are excluded from its construction? we need to stimulate the economy, we need to urgently correct education and employment policies, we need a new generation of more attractive pedagogical strategies and greater regional integration, we need a forward-looking approach that anticipates labour market developments, we need a strong link between school and the world of work and a more efficient transition to active life, and we need this approach to be developed on a regional basis, the size of which allows for more efficient mechanisms for understanding and solving problems and where skills needs are most perceptible. let us do this for our young people and for the future of the european union.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament madam president, commissioner, there is no harder statistic on what is happening to young people in europe at the moment than the asymmetry between certain countries where half the young people are unemployed and the other half in precarious, poor quality underemployment and countries like germany where less than 10% of the young people are unemployed. this means that we are experiencing a supranational crisis that is cutting our continent in half and to which, for the most part, our states have been trying to give national answers. that is not the right way of responding to this crisis, as commissioner andor has stressed on several occasions. we need a community response more than an intergovernmental response, which is what we are still talking about. the funding we have from the multiannual financial framework is affected by this. countries basically want to use only funds that were already allocated for other purposes and we ended up with a funding of 6 billion euros for 7 years which is clearly insufficient for the needs of economic recovery, in particular in the youth sector. we are also pursuing policies which are aggravating the problem, such as austerity policies in the southern countries. if we want austerity not to be stupid austerity, it is essential that the commission, the european central bank, the troika institutions and eurostat itself stop considering certain expenditure - investment in education or youth - as expenditure which is equivalent to others. we can't stop this spending. the result of the cuts in these areas, we've been seeing in countries like mine, portugal, young people are emigrating en masse to brazil, to angola, to many other countries and many of these young people don't return, making us lose decades of investment. europe, finally, also has a serious problem with its higher education. if you look at the latest shanghai ranking of world universities, in the top 50 there are very few universities from the european union and very few from the eurozone, and here i want to say something very clearly to our colleagues from the epp: it is very sad that you have come here crying crocodile tears because of the situation of young people, but when it was necessary to choose between a report on education and another on gastronomy, the epp colleagues chose the report on gastronomy and that also means that there is a huge hypocrisy in this debate.
the question is why has unemployment increased exponentially in the european union since the start of the crisis? because the nature of this crisis is the system itself, the capitalist system, it's a crisis of overproduction and overaccumulation and the system is trying to ensure capital accumulation by deliberately destroying jobs that also allow for greater exploitation of workers and by transferring wealth directly from the pockets of workers to the banks. unemployment is not accidental. the european semester, economic governance, the policies of the european union, the european commission, through the troika, are policies that advocate more or less covertly the promotion of unemployment, the reduction of wage values and the withdrawal of social and labour rights. that is the problem with this parliament. it is not worth trying to defend job creation when policies are being adopted which lead to the daily and massive destruction of jobs, policies which put young people in the dramatic situation they are in today. we are not opposed to a european youth guarantee or a similar mechanism, but we will never support a model which replaces actual work and which acts as a mechanism for companies to confuse the labour factor. young people have the right to decent, quality work, which will enable them to build their life projects in safety, but as long as there is no structural break with the economic policies which are the answer of capitalism, therefore the european union's response to this crisis, unemployment will continue to grow and this discussion will be only an ironic discussion of appearances, with no concrete results in the lives of young people.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my fellow rapporteur for her good work in tackling this very important and serious issue - youth unemployment in the european union - which has reached alarming levels, with six million young people out of work and more than seven and a half million young people not in work, education or training. southern europe is being particularly hit. in greece and spain more than half the young people are unemployed. in my country, portugal, the youth unemployment rate remains above 37%. youth unemployment has a profound impact on people, society and the economy. we cannot therefore resign ourselves to the fact that the most qualified generation is always being excluded and not allowed to participate in the economic growth that europe so badly needs. we cannot abandon our young people and we cannot waste our human resources and our talents. we can't afford to lose this generation. the situation calls for a swift response by the european union. i therefore welcome the plan to combat youth unemployment, which must be implemented with great political vigour and adequate financial means. i would stress the youth guarantee so that all young people up to the age of 30 who are not in education, employment or training can return to work or to education or training within four months. i also stress the reform of the eures portal to support mobility in the union and the creation of a quality framework for traineeships and the apprenticeship alliance to facilitate the transition from education to work. in addition, education systems in the member states need to be more agile in filling gaps and anticipating labour market needs in terms of skills.
mr president, the management of the european eel population faces an unavoidable difficulty: the enormous scarcity of scientific data to support such management. a problem which is aggravated by the shortage of recruitment for this species in several important countries, such as portugal, whose public research institutions with responsibilities in this field are suffocated and almost paralysed. in this context, it is of little use to produce demanding regulations if they are not accompanied by the financial resources to implement the necessary measures. the threat factors to the eel are diverse. all must be considered and guarded. the fishermen cannot be the only ones to pay the costs of the urgent recovery of this species. the illegal fishing of hake, stimulated by the uneven european framework currently in place, places a very strong strain on the resource. it is this phase, the younger phase, rather than a possible ban on fishing for yellow or silver eel, which in our view is not justified. it is the stage of the movement that should be the focus of concern and action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the internal market has been achieved in other areas, or, to put it another way, we have crushed the weakest productive systems and conquered their markets, particularly in the peripheral countries, in several other areas of economic activity, and the major european economic groups have long wanted to take over the services sector as well. the rapporteur recalls that this amounts to 70% of the gdp of all the countries of the european union. they also want to promote in this sector the monopolistic concentration which always results from free capitalist competition in the single market. they want to promote competition among workers by forcing the general devaluation of the workforce, the attack on rights and wages. on this path they face some difficulties. difficulties that force them to moderate their pace and even force some retreats. it is worth remembering that it was because of the services directive that in 2006 there were great demonstrations in several european countries that culminated in large european demonstrations. demonstrations rejecting the opening to the market of areas where historically the states have exercised their social function through public services. demonstrations that have had to face, and will have to face in the future, refusing to dismantle public services, a civilizational achievement of the people and that are now attacking to provide good business for some large economic groups at the expense of rights, progress and social justice.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr reul and president barroso forgot to measure the state of the union by the growth of inequality between rich and poor countries and between rich and poor citizens in each member state. what does mr reul have to say to the german citizens who are going to vote this month, very concerned about what they are spending on the bailed-out countries, while germany is gaining on loans and has even saved 41 billion euros on low or negative interest rates, while the bailed-out countries are financing themselves at exorbitant interest rates and their public debt keeps growing? what do you think the greek, portuguese, irish and spanish citizens think of this blatant denial of what the euro and the union should be?
mr president, mr president of the commission, i would also like to welcome the lithuanian presidency, as this is the first occasion that i have had to be in contact with the lithuanian presidency of the council. mr president, i would like to say at this point, which is the time before the elections to the european parliament, when there is a state of the union address, that as a portuguese and as a member of the epp, i am proud of the work that the commission has done and, in particular, of the presidency that dr durão barroso has had here over these ten years, and in particular also over these five years. a non-arrogant pride, just like the one you have defined here that we europeans should have. i just wanted to make two points. firstly, what i think is fundamental for this commission to leave as a legacy is the idea that there should be more solidarity and more cohesion. i think that at the moment the countries which are in economic and financial crisis, particularly the peripheral countries and the countries of southern europe, have set an example of great determination in carrying out structural reforms and need signs of cohesion from the european union and the strongest countries in the european union. and so it is essential that this line be followed. and the second point i would like to make here, which for me is a great source of hope and should be a great goal for the future: the european union is a serious partner of the united states. i think that the example that the syrian case gives us is also an example of the strengthening of western values. when the solution we have to choose between dictatorship and terrorism, western values are reinforced, and therefore a serious economic partnership, opening markets with the united states, reviving the centrality of the atlantic, i think it is the project that can also revive european solidarity.
the economic and financial crisis that has hit the world has put the european institutions at the centre of the solution to the crisis. economic integration has since become a pillar of the eu2020 strategy and member states are now closer on economic, monetary and financial policies. despite some progress in economic growth in the european countries, we are facing a huge social crisis with 26 million unemployed, the vast majority of them young people with qualifications. we cannot ask for more without creating a framework for future growth. it is therefore urgent to approve the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, as this will be the source of investment for many european regions. we must support and facilitate access to european finance for smes, the basis of the european market. we must complete the banking union so that we have preventive and corrective measures for a future crisis like the one we are experiencing today. we want more europe where there is added value. we want more solidarity when situations are negative for some member states and positive for others. a political union which makes the decision-making and institutional process faster and more effective.
the president of the european commission has tried to mythologise the european union project in a somewhat triumphant tone, proclaiming the union's project and values, the heroic way it has stood up to adversity and the need to defend it. but why do we have to defend it? why is the eu a vehicle for ensuring people's rights and a life of dignity? no, on the contrary. we must defend it because it is the european union. a common project in barroso's rhetoric, a project of creating inequality in the daily reality of workers. barroso's speech was thus devoid of concrete content and heavy on abstract mystifications that are far, far away from the real world. barroso also bet on the argument that change is here, the signs of economic recovery are finally appearing after our efforts. portugal has been an example - growth returned to the country after a series of negative quarters. the portuguese economy, as we know, has not grown, what has happened is that the pace of the recession has slowed down slightly and circumstantially. the portuguese are living through a real social drama, with the prospect of worsening through the already announced measures of redundancies and pension cuts. but barroso's rhetorical demagogy ignores the concrete.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, taking into account that there is a growing number of languages at risk of extinction, and that there is a need to assess the situation of these languages to raise awareness at european level of the implications of their disappearance and the need to reactivate them in order to prevent their disappearance and preserve their richness in our society. in my view, the promotion of the union's languages, as well as those at risk of extinction, is a vital challenge that europe must face for a real future, in order to promote its wealth and attract new customers around its heritage, especially among the younger generations.
in writing. - linguistic and cultural diversity is one of the basic principles of the european union, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights which states that the union will respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. endangered languages should be understood as an integral part of europe's cultural heritage and not as a vehicle for political, ethnic or territorial aspirations. all languages, including endangered languages, reflect historical, social and cultural knowledge and expertise. in this regard, member states that have not yet done so should ratify and implement the european charter for regional or minority languages, pay increased attention to and support the pursuit of higher education and research, with particular emphasis on endangered languages. the european commission should propose concrete measures for the protection of endangered languages and support research into the acquisition and revitalization of endangered languages. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that all languages, including those threatened with extinction, reflect historical, social and cultural knowledge and skills, as well as a mentality and a kind of creativity that are part of the richness and diversity of the european union and the basis of european identity. i therefore believe that linguistic diversity and the presence of endangered languages in a country should be seen as an asset, not a burden, and should be supported and promoted.
in writing. − linguistic diversity is part of europe's heritage and as such must be preserved and promoted. all people have the inalienable right to speak their own language and each is a separate set of historical, social and cultural knowledge as well as a human experience. however, a large number of the languages spoken in europe are seriously endangered and some of them may disappear in this century. a language may be endangered for a number of reasons, including the difficulty of transmitting the language between generations, the reduction in the number of speakers or the fact that a language is confined to a small and/or remote geographical area. that is why i am in favour of all european languages being used, preserved and promoted, as is done in this house.
in writing. - linguistic and cultural diversity is one of the basic principles of the european union, enshrined in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights, which states that the union shall respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity. all european languages are equal in value and dignity and are an integral part of their respective cultures and civilizations, contributing to the enrichment of humanity. cohesive multilingual societies that manage their linguistic diversity in a democratic and sustainable way contribute to plurality, are more open and have better conditions to integrate the richness represented by linguistic diversity. all languages, including those threatened with extinction, reflect historical, social and cultural knowledge and skills, as well as a mentality and a type of creativity, which are part of the richness and diversity of the european union and the basis of european identity. i therefore support this report and call on the european union and the member states to become more aware of the extreme threat to the future of many of europe's languages, which are classed as endangered, and to commit themselves vigorously to the creation of a policy to safeguard and promote the unique diversity of the union's linguistic and cultural heritage.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty reinforced the objective of safeguarding and promoting the cultural and linguistic heritage of the european union in all its diversity. the european union and the member states should therefore be aware of the real threat to the future of many of europe's languages, which are classified as endangered, and should be actively engaged in creating a policy to safeguard and promote the unique diversity of the union's linguistic and cultural heritage. ambitious policies for the proactive revitalisation of these languages should thus be supported, with a reasonable budget allocated to this end. it was important that member states develop action plans for the defence of endangered languages based on the exchange of good practices already existing in a number of linguistic communities in europe. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on endangered european languages and linguistic diversity in the european union. the notion of linguistic diversity in the european union covers both official and co-official languages, regional languages and languages not officially recognised by the member states. this report draws the attention of the governments and regional authorities of the member states to the fact that the survival of an endangered language is a pre-requisite for the survival and development of the community which uses it and that, therefore, in formulating policies for its safeguarding, account should be taken not only of the cultural and educational aspects but also of the economic and social dimensions.
in writing. - linguistic diversity is an important part of the cultural heritage of the european union and a fundamental element of our cultural diversity. the report is unanimous in its emphasis on the need for the union and the member states to safeguard cultural heritage and preserve linguistic diversity. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that linguistic diversity must not only be preserved but also promoted.
in writing. − we welcome the recognition that all european languages are equal in value and dignity and that they are an integral part of their respective cultures and civilizations, contributing to the enrichment of the human being. we also support the view that all languages, including those threatened with extinction, reflect historical, social and cultural knowledge and expertise. when we say that speaking is how we understand each other, what we mean is that it is with language that we build or deconstruct ourselves - as individuals, as communities or as peoples. we know that language has often established itself as a fundamental pillar of resistance to various forms of oppression. let us remember that the roma people have found in their language an amazing factor of unity and courage that even the concentration camps of nazi-fascism could not crush. we therefore understand that there are no minority languages - there are languages. the disappearance of any one of them makes us all poorer. this is why it is urgent to adopt measures to revitalize the language, accompanied by the necessary funding, in order to reverse the situation where the death of the last speaker of a language usually leads to the extinction of that language.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering that the european environment agency is the only european agency in which the european parliament is not asked to give its opinion on the appointment of its directors, and this report is intended to rectify this situation so that the appointment is also put to the european parliament's prior consideration.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i think that the european parliament should have the formal right to hear the candidate selected for this post by the management board of the european environment agency before his appointment.
in writing. - i think it is appropriate that the executive director of the european environment agency should be heard before the european parliament as part of the dignity of this parliament, which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to ask the commission, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty, to submit a legislative proposal amending article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 on the european environment agency. the first subparagraph of article 9 (1) of that regulation describes the procedure for the appointment of the executive director of the eea and does not currently provide for any requirement that the candidate selected by the management board of the eea must appear before the competent body of the european parliament before his appointment. the requirement is, however, contained in the regulations establishing other agencies, namely the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, which also fall within the remit of parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − the appointment of anyone to carry out functions at the level of the various agencies that exist in the eu area must be transparent and governed by very clear rules. the european parliament should have a say in these appointments. the report is simply intended to allow the future nominee for the european environment agency to be heard by the competent body of the european parliament, in this case the environment committee.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to ask the commission, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty, to submit a legislative proposal to amend article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 on the european environment agency, as that regulation describes the procedure for appointing the executive director of the eea and does not currently provide for any requirement that the candidate selected by the eea board of directors appear before the competent body of the european parliament before his appointment, which needs to be amended. for these reasons i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report intends that, before the appointment of an executive director for the european environment agency, the candidate should be heard in parliament, in the committee responsible. this rule is already established for other european agencies. in addition, this position should also be published in the official journal of the european union and other media. i am in favour of these amendments and therefore of the report.
in writing. − the european environment agency is headed by an executive director who is appointed by the management board on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the commission following a call for expressions of interest published in the official journal of the european union and other written media or on the internet. the aim of the proposal is to harmonise the procedure for appointing the executive director of the european environment agency with other procedures used in other agencies. the aim is to give the european parliament the formal right to hear the selected candidate, giving him the opportunity to make a statement and then subjecting him to a question period by members. the involvement of the european parliament in the appointment of this post will certainly make the process more democratic, and we are therefore not opposed to what is proposed in this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, starting by recalling that, in the context of the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework of the european union, the european parliament made it clear that it would not approve a financial framework unless it had an absolute guarantee that there were no outstanding payment claims and that these would be met in full, in order to avoid a structural deficit in the budget of the european union in 2013. the new financial regulation, as amended, will allow the union budget in 2013 to be increased by eur 7,3 billion in payments immediately, while insisting on an extra change in the autumn.
in writing. − whereas parliament, the council and the commission committed themselves in a joint declaration of december 2012 to cover all payment requests for 2012 through an amending budget at the beginning of 2013 and whereas the council formally committed itself, in the framework of the political agreement on the mff 2014-2020 and following the express request of parliament, to also ensure the coverage of the second tranche of outstanding payments, which will allow for the payment to be settled before the start of the new mff; i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − given that parliament, the council and the commission committed themselves in a joint declaration in december 2012 to cover all payment claims for 2012 through an amending budget at the beginning of 2013, i support the rapporteur's position. i would remind you once again of the need to adopt the next multiannual financial framework as soon as possible, taking into account all the implications of this impasse, both at european and national level.
in writing. − the overall amount of payment claims outstanding at the end of 2012 relating to cohesion policy (2007-2013) was eur 16.2 billion. this amount has been carried over to 2013, which has resulted in a reduction of the level of payments available in the 2013 budget to cover the current year's payment needs. this amending budget no 2/2013 to the general budget for 2013 proposes an increase of eur 290 million in the estimated revenue from fines and penalties and an increase of eur 11,2 billion in the payment appropriations under heading nos 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual financial framework in order to meet payment needs by the end of the year. the commission proposed this overall increase of eur 11,2 billion in order not to call into question the ceiling for payments in 2013 and thus avoid a revision of the current mff. however, this amount is not sufficient to cover all payment claims submitted until the end of 2013.
in writing. − this draft amending budget aims to safeguard the future payment of the cohesion policy appropriations (2007/2013), which were due to be paid in 2012 and will be carried over to be paid in 2013. let us hope that these payments are made so that there are no delays in the cohesion policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, in which the european parliament declares that it takes note of draft amending budget no 2/2013 proposed by the commission and of the council position on it, which reflects the political commitment made by the council during the negotiations on the mff 2014-2020. the european parliament considers the overall increase of eur 11,2 billion originally proposed by the commission at this level to avoid undermining the 2013 payment ceiling and thus avoiding a revision of the current mff to be a good measure, but fears that it will not be sufficient to cover all payment applications submitted by the end of 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this amending budget aims to increase the amount available for payments in the eu budget to cover part of the deficit of some eur 11.2 billion resulting from the implementation of eu programmes and projects under the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the regional development fund. this amending budget corresponds to the first instalment, eur 7.3 billion. the european council is expected to approve the second tranche in october. the approval of the two tranches by the european council is a sine qua non condition for the european parliament to consider giving its consent to the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it is regrettable that the european council only made available the funds needed to settle the outstanding 2012 member states' claims for reimbursement in the third quarter of 2013, which could jeopardise the implementation of the 2013 programmes and projects. this is money owed to the member states to pay for expenditure already incurred on social measures and programmes.
in writing. − on 27 june 2013, the european institutions agreed on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020, which included a political commitment by the council to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's 2013 obligations are fully respected. draft amending budget no 2/2013 of eur 7,3 billion was also adopted, as was a new draft amending budget to be proposed by the commission in early autumn, which should be adopted as soon as possible to avoid any justified shortfall in payment appropriations. i am voting in favour of this report which reminds the council that the european parliament will only approve the mff for 2014-2020 when the council commits itself to paying the balance of the balance by the end of 2013, which, according to the commission's estimate, is eur 11.2 billion.
in writing. − as mentioned in the report, the parliament, the council and the commission committed themselves in december 2012 to meet all payment requests for 2012 through an amending budget in early 2013. on 27 june this year, an agreement was reached between the president of the ep, the council presidency and the commission on the mff 2014-2020 and the fulfilment of outstanding obligations for the current year. however, less than four months remain until the end of 2013 and the current amending budget remains insufficient in relation to the expected payments. the need for this and at least one more amending budget is the consequence of an incomprehensible and unacceptable delay on the part of the council, which has not yet taken over the coverage of the 2013 budget deficit (which includes payments not made in 2012 and carried over to 2013). we are facing another step on the road to imposing reductions in transfers from the so-called net contributors, the countries that have benefited most from the eu integration process, the internal market and the euro, and the common policies. we voted in favour of this amending budget to cover the payments that have not been made, but it is clear that the king - the eu - is naked.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, taking into account that the 2012 budget led to a record low surplus of 1,023 billion entering the 2013 budget. this surplus, resulting from expenditure, extra revenue received in 2012 and exchange rate differences, reduces the contributions to be paid by the member states to finance the 2013 budget. it is therefore vital that this surplus is carried over to 2013 and prevents a downward pressure on member states' contributions, especially at a time of economic crisis and austerity that economically weaker member states are facing.
in writing. − the adoption of this draft amending budget will reduce the share of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget and therefore partially offset their contribution to the financing of amending budget no 2. i would therefore stress that the two dossiers are subject to a common timetable for adoption, since they are closely linked from a political point of view. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 3 aims to return the surplus of the previous year to the member states by proportionately reducing their contribution to the union budget for the following year and by alleviating the additional burden this represents for national budgets. i obviously support this return.
in writing. − this draft amending budget no 3/2013 aims to enter in the 2013 budget the surplus for the financial year 2012, amounting to eur 1 023,3 million. the main components of this surplus are eur 244,3 million of under-implementation of expenditure, eur 719,1 million of positive differences resulting from the implementation of revenue and eur 59,9 million of positive exchange differences. on the revenue side, the increase was mainly due to repayments and contributions linked to eu agreements and programmes (eur 350 million), an increase in own resources actually collected compared to those already budgeted (eur 231 million) and fines and interest on late payment (eur 159 million), the under-implementation of expenditure amounts to eur 244 million, of which eur 168 million relates to appropriations from the 2012 budget and eur 76 million relates to appropriations carried over from 2011.
in writing. − this report intends to record and transfer certain unused appropriations for the financial year 2012 to the financial year 2013. amending budget no 3 will reduce the share of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget and therefore partially offset their contribution to the financing of amending budget no 2 as approved in report a7-0287/2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, which seeks to enter in the 2013 budget the surplus of the financial year 2012, amounting to eur 1 023,3 million, which will reduce the share of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the union budget.
in writing. − this amending budget aims to integrate into the union budget for 2013 the amount of eur 1 023.3 remaining from 2012. this surplus corresponds to an amount of eur 244.3 million that was not implemented, an amount of eur 719.1 million corresponding to fines collected for infringements of the european legal framework and an amount of eur 59.9 million resulting from positive exchange rates. this surplus will cover part of the member states' outstanding refund claims until the end of the current year. i voted for it, of course.
in writing. − this amending budget is exclusively dedicated to budgeting the 2012 surplus of eur 1 023,3 million, which will reduce the share of the gni-based contribution of the member states to the european union budget, with this partial compensation to be made through their contribution to the amending budget no 2/2013. the major powers and the so-called net contributors are forcing a path whereby programmes and policies financed by the eu budget are increasingly designed to meet their interests and those of their monopolies, and are creating political and financial expedients to reduce their contribution to the eu budget. instead of reducing the contributions of the countries in accordance with their proportional distribution and with a view to introducing some elements of effective solidarity, the remainder should be allocated to the budget of the following year, particularly to specific programmes to support national production and job creation with associated rights in the countries facing the greatest economic difficulties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, since the aim of amending budget no 4/2013 is to strengthen the plans for the establishment of the gnss agency, the eacea agency and the court of justice of the european union. i believe that a 2013 budget should be completed without structural deficits and without payment requests that have not been paid. the european parliament will continue to be uncompromising in this respect.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that this amending budget takes up only part of the court of justice's initial request, based on declaration no 38, and does not take account of the nine referenda requested by the court, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the draft is budget-neutral and does not merit any particular comment, except that the staff movements and the staff lists must be clearly understandable. i hope that the increase in the staff of the european gnss agency and the court of justice will have a positive impact on their ability to exercise the powers conferred on them and to achieve their objectives.
in writing. − amending budget no 4/2013 aims to amend the staff of the european gnss agency by adding 20 posts, due to the new tasks entrusted to the agency, of the eacea implementing agency by adding 2 temporary agents and 13 contract agents, due to the extension of its mandate, and of the court of justice by adding 7 posts which are necessary for the new advocate general of the court. these proposed reinforcements are presented as having no budgetary impact, since they should be fully compensated by equivalent reductions in the commission section of the budget and, as regards the court of justice, by appropriations available in its own section. the provision of the 20 proposed seats for the european gnss agency is urgent in order to enable the agency to prepare for its new tasks as from january 2014.
in writing. − this report on amending budget no 4/2013 aims to amend the establishment plans of the european gnss agency by adding 20 posts due to the new tasks entrusted to the agency, of the eacea implementing agency by adding 2 temporary agents and 13 contract agents due to the extension of its mandate, and of the court of justice by adding 7 posts which are necessary for the new advocate general of the court. the corresponding reduction in staff in the commission must, however, be safeguarded in the future to compensate for the current admissions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, section iv court of justice of the european union, in which the european parliament expresses its concern at the misleading presentation of the reduction of staff in relation to the commission's establishment plan and notes that the 13 contract staff and the 2 posts released in the commission's direct services are added to the establishment plan of the eacea executive agency. however, since all the executive agencies are part of the commission's administration, nothing is taken from the commission's budget - contrary to what is said. parliament is aware that the staff of the executive agencies are paid entirely from operational funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour. this request for an amending budget by these union bodies is budgetary neutral. it aims to amend the staff structure plans of the european global navigation satellite system (gnss) and education, audiovisual and culture supervisory agencies and of the court of justice of the european union, in line with their new responsibilities.
in writing. − amending budget no 4/2013 aims to amend the establishment plans of the european gnss agency by adding 20 posts, due to the new tasks entrusted to the agency, of the eacea executive agency by adding 2 temporary agents and 13 contract agents, due to the extension of its mandate, and of the court of justice by adding 7 posts, which are necessary for the new advocate general of the court. i believe that the recruitment of new staff will be positive in mitigating the additional workload faced by the court due to the council's inability to approve, to date, a system to increase the number of judges at the court and to have these posts included in the draft budget presented by the commission for 2014. i am therefore in favour of this report which aims to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the european agencies and the court.
in writing. − amending budget no 4/2013 aims to amend the staffing of the european gnss agency by adding 20 posts, allegedly due to the new tasks entrusted to it, of the eacea executive agency by extending its mandate by adding 15 posts, and of the court of justice by adding 7 posts for the new advocate general of the court. the commission claims that the budgetary impact of the new posts is nil, since the new posts are compensated by equivalent reductions in the commission section. our abstention is justified by our doubts about the political options underlying this decision, in particular the european gnss agency and the practical impacts of devoting more staff to projects such as the global navigation satellite system (gnss), the european version of which is galileo, and which may have implications for the process of militarization of the eu and its link with nato. doubts are all the more justified as the newly created places presuppose the extinction of others whose impact is unknown.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it gives the green light to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for croatia, slovenia and austria following the floods that affected these member states in autumn 2012. in addition, it is worth noting that the commission presented an amending budget so that this payment is included in the appropriations and payment commitments for 2013.
in writing. the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund (the fund) to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. the provisions allowing for the possible mobilisation of the fund are laid down in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. the heavy rains in late october and early november 2012 caused river flooding and flooded large areas of the sava, kupa, mura and drava rivers in slovenia and the mura, drava and lavant river basins in austria, as well as the territory of croatia. following these disasters, slovenia, croatia and austria submitted applications to mobilise the fund. the request in question meets the eligibility criteria of that regulation and i therefore supported this report which proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the tune of eur 14 607 942 for the three countries concerned.
in writing. - having regard to the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (1), and in particular point 26 thereof,
in writing. − the floods of october and november 2012 severely affected regions of austria, slovenia and croatia. european solidarity is fully justified in view of the scale of the damage. the european union solidarity fund is the appropriate instrument to help to deal with them. as i have said on many occasions, europeans must show that they are united in adversity rather than 'united in diversity'. this is another example of that.
in writing. − heavy rains in late october and early november 2012 caused river flooding and flooded large areas of the sava, kupa, mura and drava rivers in slovenia and the mura, drava and lavant river basins in austria, as well as the territory of croatia. the floods caused damage to public and private buildings, water distribution and wastewater treatment infrastructure, businesses, and agricultural and forestry land. subsequently, slovenia submitted a request for financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund under the criterion on major disasters, while croatia and austria submitted their requests under the so-called neighbourhood criterion. after verifying that the application in question meets the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the total amount of eur 14 607 942. slovenia receives eur 14 081 355, croatia eur 286 587 and austria eur 240 000 and the other countries are the following: i would like to stress once again that the solidarity fund should be mobilised quickly, but unfortunately this is not the case.
in writing. − the eu is a space of solidarity, having set up the solidarity fund to help member states facing natural disasters. in the past, this fund has been used to help various regions affected by such disasters. in this case, slovenia, croatia and austria submitted requests to mobilise the fund in relation to a flood disaster which caused heavy damage to the population.
in writing. − the commission proposes to mobilise the eusf for slovenia, croatia and austria in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the interinstitutional agreement allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is the first proposal to mobilise the fund in 2013. heavy rains in late october and early november 2012 caused rivers to overflow and flooded large areas of several rivers in slovenia and austria, as well as the territory of croatia. the floods caused damage to public and private buildings, water distribution and wastewater treatment infrastructure, businesses, and agricultural and forestry land. slovenia has submitted a request for financial assistance from the eusf under the criterion on major disasters, while croatia and austria have submitted their requests under the so-called neighbouring country criterion. the commission's analysis showed that the damage caused was caused by a single meteorological event and could be accepted as a single event. i have voted in favour of this report, subject to the approval of the committee on budgets.
in writing. the european union has set up the solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. i am voting in favour of this report, which seeks to mobilise the solidarity fund to help slovenia, croatia and austria to cope with the disasters caused by the floods. at a time when solidarity between member states must be deepened, i believe that this support of eur 14 607 942.00 represents the ideal of the european project, in particular the fact that, in times of difficulty, european countries are available to contribute actively to the reduction of the disasters that occur. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate my colleague, mr josé manuel fernandes, on his work, which has done much to increase solidarity between european countries.
in writing. - we have agreed to the decision of the european parliament and the council to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the people of slovenia, croatia and austria, regions affected by the heavy rains that occurred between late october and early november 2012, which caused the rivers to overflow and flooded large areas of the sava, kupa, mura and drava rivers in slovenia and the mura, drava and lavant river basins in austria, as well as the territory of croatia. the direct damage from the floods was estimated at eur 359 535 million for slovenia, eur 11 463 million for croatia and eur 9 600 million for austria. the commission, having verified that the application complies with the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) 2012/2002, has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the total amount of eur 14 607 942. it is therefore proposed that this amount be entered under the budget heading created for the purpose of mobilising the fund. we supported it. finally, we call attention to the need to speed up this type of financial assistance. in fact, this catastrophe occurred 11 months ago.
in writing. - having regard to draft amending budget no 5/2013 concerning the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) corresponding to an amount of eur 14 607 942 in commitment and payment appropriations following the heavy rainfall and subsequent floods in slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012),
in writing. − the draft amending budget aims to formally enter in the budget the amounts mobilised by the solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to austria, slovenia and croatia, which were hit by very serious floods in october and november 2012. i believe that both the formal budget entry and the substantial support from the union are fully justified.
in writing. − this amending budget no 5/2013 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) corresponding to an amount of eur 14 607 942 in commitment and payment appropriations following the heavy rainfall and subsequent floods in slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. it is intended to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2013 budget.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to deal with the floods in slovenia, croatia and austria was approved by report a7-0286/2013. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and austria, the commission presented a draft amending budget (oj no 5/2013 of 2 may 2013) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2013 budget, as provided for in point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement. that is the amending budget which we have now adopted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 11 september 2013 on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, which confirms the commission proposal without amendments, thus ensuring that amending budget no 5 is covered by new appropriations, thus addressing the urgency of releasing financial assistance through the eusf to the countries affected by this natural disaster.
in writing. - i voted in favour. the purpose of this amending budget and of the report supporting this request is to enable the european solidarity fund to be mobilised for a total amount of eur 14 607 942 in credit commitments and payments. this amount will provide financial assistance to slovenia, croatia and austria in response to the severe floods which occurred in october and november of the previous year. it is regrettable that only a year after the events the european council finally made it possible to mobilise the fund.
in writing. the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. i am voting in favour of this report which seeks to mobilise eur 14 607 942.00 from the solidarity fund to help slovenia, croatia and austria to cope with the disasters caused by the floods. i also believe that it is urgent to make funds available to countries affected by the natural disaster, and that we should not have the same situation as that which occurred with the catastrophe of 20 february 2012 in the autonomous region of madeira, where aid took too long to reach the affected population. i also find it incredible and deeply regrettable that the council has decided, once again, not to shorten, for reasons of urgency and in accordance with article 4 of protocol no 1 to the treaty, the eight-week deadline for informing national parliaments before adopting its position on this amending budget.
in writing. − the promotion of biofuels has been one of the key elements of eu policy as they not only increase the sustainability of transport but also improve the security of energy supply and support economic development. the amendment to the renewable energy directive aims to minimise the impact of indirect land use change on greenhouse gas emissions. i welcome the agreement reached which supports a gradual transition from conventional to advanced biofuels, provided that technological progress allows it, while minimising the harmful effects on european industry.
in writing. − the renewable energy directive set the objective of achieving an overall 20% share of energy from renewable sources in the eu and a 10% share of this type of energy in the transport sector by 2020. such targets are ambitious but necessary to consolidate greater independence from fossil fuels. today we have adopted a balanced text which, while not undermining the clean energy objectives, does not place too much pressure on european industry.
in writing. − with this vote, the european parliament is arguing that the share of energy from conventional or first generation biofuels, produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops and sugar, oil and other energy crops grown on land, should not exceed 6% of final energy consumption in transport by 2020. the target for 2020 is currently set at 10%. the share of energy from advanced or second-generation biofuels, such as those produced from algae or waste, shall represent at least 2,5% of the final energy consumption in the transport sector in 2020. i am calling for the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the increasing use of agricultural land for biofuel production to be taken into account.
in writing. − the renewable energy directive set a target of 20% of energy from renewable sources in the eu and 10% of energy from renewable sources in transport by 2020. at the same time, the fuel quality directive sets a binding target of 6% reduction in the greenhouse gas intensity of fuels used in road transport and non-road mobile machinery. these two directives are of the utmost importance if we are to achieve the objectives set for 2020.
in writing. - i voted for the lepage report on amendments to the renewable energy directive to reduce the mandatory quotas for first generation biofuels (produced from food species such as maize) and to favour second generation biofuels (waste, for example), because the regime in force so far has proved to put pressure on food prices and on harmful land use (deforestation and environmental degradation). the promotion of non-fossil fuels cannot sacrifice other, more important values and interests. the need to correct that directive shows the costs and the damage that can be caused by a certain ecological fundamentalism, based more on dogma and fashions than on informed judgement and informed choices.
in writing. − the promotion of biofuels has been one of the key elements of eu energy and climate change policy. the reasons for this are varied and sensitive: biofuels not only increase the sustainability of transport but also improve the security of energy supply and support economic development by creating new sources of income in rural areas. the main driver of its development has been the fight against climate change. on the basis of these assumptions, i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution of 11 september 2013 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, in line with the line of the epp group.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy aims to have around 20% of the total energy consumed in the european union come from renewable sources, and it should be noted that in the automotive sector this figure should represent at least 10% of final energy consumption. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to diversify renewable energy sources and to focus more and more on different energy sources, as they contribute to greater environmental sustainability and to reducing greenhouse gases. it should also be stressed that the automotive industry must have time to adapt to these changes in the energy sector and that the european investment bank should be particularly important in providing finance for the industrial changes that will need to be developed in the future.
in writing. − member states are obliged to use 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020, coupled with a 6% reduction in ghg emissions, leading to increased demand for biofuels. this increased demand is also translated into increased demand for land, resulting in land use change, including fragile ecosystems, forests, peatlands and grasslands on cultivated land. this phenomenon is called aius. the commission recognises the reality of the aius phenomenon but, instead of proposing the integration of the aius factor in the calculations for reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, it proposes a 5% limit for biofuels from food crops. it also proposes a rapid switch to advanced biofuels from waste and waste products for which land use change is considered to be nil. data on raw materials for the production of these biofuels are still scarce and there is a backlog of safeguards and sustainability criteria to avoid negative economic and environmental consequences. given that demand can make it more profitable to produce agrofuels than food, the key issue in biofuel production is to advocate for food reserves and food production to be safeguarded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to protect and increase the species.
in writing. − european eel populations have been declining sharply, raising concerns about the survival of the species and the possibility of measures to reverse this trend. the ones currently in force have not demonstrated the ability to do so. moreover, like other regulations, it must be adapted to the existing provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the many unknowns surrounding this species warn against maximalist solutions and against options that are too soft to protect it properly. attention and continuous monitoring of future developments in this matter and frank collaboration by member states and key players in the sector are recommended.
in writing. − the european eel stock is facing a multitude of problems: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents as a result of global climate change, etc. the latest scientific advice from the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices, 2012) on the european eel is that the state of the stock unit remains critical and urgent action is required. the stock is outside safe biological limits and the current fishing activities are not sustainable. as a consequence of the entry into force of the eel management plans, restocking increased with around 22 million mussel and 10 million yellow-eels mostly used for restocking in 2012 and the landing data of mussel in 2010 and 2011 were higher than in 2009 (wgeel, 2012). despite the widespread and growing use of restocking as a conservation measure, ices (2011) has harshly criticised its effectiveness. we consider it of the utmost importance that the commission should examine the implementation of the restocking measures in order to determine whether or not they have actually contributed to the increase in the biomass of the breeding population of european eel.
in writing. − the conservation of species is one of the eu's major concerns, as this is the only way to maintain a sustainable and economically viable ecosystem. the european eel population is facing a multitude of problems: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents as a result of global climate change, etc. therefore, the solutions are not easy, just as there is no one person in charge. we must therefore find solutions that restore the eel population levels, otherwise the eel will become extinct. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the objective of this report is to review regulation (ec) no 1100/2007 laying down measures for the recovery of the stock of european eel in order to bring it into line with the comitology (reclassification into delegated and implementing acts) established by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) following the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. in this reclassification of acts into delegated and implementing measures, it is essential to find a solution that is based on a sound legal basis and safeguards the rights of parliament as established by the tfeu. the rapporteur generally agrees with the attribution of implementing acts to the commission for the approval of the eel management plans, but considers that this regulation is not sufficiently comprehensive to ensure an effective recovery of the eel population. for this reason, the rapporteur went far beyond the comitology issues for compliance with the tfeu, introducing numerous substantive amendments to the report relating to management plans, reductions in fishing effort, restocking operations, various obligations (technical and monitoring measures, data collection and reporting) and sanctions for member states, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal is to align council regulation (ec) no 1100/2007 laying down measures for the recovery of the stock of european eel with the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards delegated acts and commission implementing acts. the european eel stock is currently facing a range of problems: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents due to climate change, and others related to the eel's own biology and management, all of which require a response from the european union, as highlighted in the document. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council, establishing the union customs code by recasting the modernised customs code adopted by regulation (ec) no 450/2008, constitutes the most far-reaching reform of the customs legislation of the european union. the union customs code seeks to ensure the necessary balance between the aspects of supervision and control by the customs authorities of the member states, which is important for the protection of the financial interests of the european union and its member states and the safety and security of the eu and its residents, human and animal health, the environment and consumers. given the full computerisation and dematerialisation of customs procedures and the necessary development of computerised systems, a transitional period until 31 december 2020 is established for the full development and implementation of such systems and, consequently, for the full application of the new rules. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i approve the following first reading position, taking into account the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - the customs union is an essential element in the functioning of the internal market and the single market. it can only function properly when there is a common and consistent application of common customs rules. the reform of the union customs code aims to improve the customs system and cannot ignore new technologies and the need to simplify procedures. without a customs system sufficiently free from bureaucracy and overprotectionist tendencies, the european economy will suffer from unnecessary conditioning, which should be avoided, especially in a period of economic and financial crisis. i hope that the union customs code will make a positive contribution to this objective.
in writing. − in the recast of the union customs code (ucc), the commission proposed adapting certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 to developments in customs and other relevant legislation, aligning the regulation with the procedural requirements arising from the lisbon treaty and postponing the date of application. most of the provisions of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 establishing the union customs code (ucc) have therefore been amended due to the impact of the alignment measures with the treaty of lisbon or the need to make adjustments due to the evolution of eu legislation in the area concerned. the customs union is an essential element for the functioning of the single market, and the single market can only function properly if common and consistent application of common and modern customs rules and systems is ensured. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to modernise customs legislation and procedures, and the use of computerised systems for customs clearance and procedures, in order to facilitate interaction with customs and to ensure the safety and security of trade in goods within the european union. the amendments proposed here will make the customs procedure easier, more user-friendly, with the consequent economic benefits. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code (recast), in which i stress parliament's concern to insert a rule stipulating that compliant and eligible economic operators should benefit from international agreements providing for the mutual recognition of the status of authorised economic operator. the conclusion of cooperation agreements on the mutual recognition of authorized economic operators should be one of the priorities of the ongoing trade negotiations, in particular those concerning broad and comprehensive trade agreements between the european union and third countries, as this is part of a growth policy desired by all.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to adapt certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 450/2008 to developments in customs and related legislation, to align the regulation with the requirements resulting from the lisbon treaty and to postpone the date of application. the european parliament's report is intended to reinforce the commission's ideas and respects the interinstitutional agreement on the recasting of legal acts. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the customs union is seen by those who advocate it as an essential element for the functioning of the single market and will therefore only function properly if there is a common and coherent application of common and modern customs rules and systems. the report calls for full harmonisation in such areas as: the use of common electronic systems by all member states; the creation of an integrated and common system for the collection of duties; the use of electronic data processing techniques; the use of common levels and modes of control over goods. the harmonisation of the union customs code (ucc) raises specific concerns relating to the safety of citizens and the economic aspects of the code. for example, there is no clear explanation of how and under what conditions the use of electronic systems applied in all member states will be made. who's going to control these systems and the information that can be shared by these systems? in addition, the creation of a unified system of customs duties raises concerns about who will be responsible for the collection and use of revenue, but also about how to find a common price in the context of harmonisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contains rules on the verification of incomes on agricultural holdings, while chapter iii lays down rules on the analysis of the economic functioning of agricultural holdings. both types of investigation are essentially subject to the same rules; therefore, for reasons of simplification, it is appropriate to group those provisions into a single chapter applicable to both types of investigation.
in writing. the agricultural accounting information network (aran) was set up to assess farm incomes and the impacts of the common agricultural policy. as the only harmonised microeconomic database, it is an important tool both for the development and evaluation of agricultural policies. in view of its importance, i support the position that this data should be made more easily available and compulsory for all interested parties. the proposed amendments to council regulation no 1217/2009 are mainly aimed at aligning the commission's powers with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and are therefore not particularly controversial.
in writing. - this proposal concerns the agricultural accountancy information network (aran), set up in 1965 to meet some of the requirements of the common agricultural policy (cap), in particular as regards the certification of yields and the analysis of the economic performance of agricultural holdings. over time, fadn has evolved and the network has spread to all eu member states. to date, it is the only harmonised microeconomic database, as a similar approach has been followed in all member states. it is an important tool for framing and evaluating agricultural policies, as it collects data on income, production factors and output from a sample of farms, representative at eu level, on an annual basis. therefore, the fitd allows the commission to analyse the economic and structural situation and to assess a whole range of indicators related to income, productivity and production costs. the rica is thus a key tool for assessing the performance of agricultural holdings. with the new cap, it will have to make some adjustments which will be discussed in this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to update the requirements and criteria associated with the agricultural accountancy information network, so as to make it possible to analyse the economic and structural situation and to assess a whole range of indicators relating to the income, productivity and production costs of european agricultural holdings, with a view to gaining greater knowledge in order to be able to draw up new agricultural and rural development policies. aspects such as income, factors of production and production itself are essential to this design. i also share the rapporteur's view on the amendments to the treaty which will make it possible to transform outdated, duplicated and obsolete legislation into a genuine, practical and representative mechanism for collecting information, while at the same time retaining the autonomy of the member states in drawing up the plan for the selection of accountancy holdings. finally, i also believe that a specially designed website containing icao data and reports should continue to exist.
in writing. - the amendments to this regulation relate to the definition of the rules for the thresholds for economic size, the plan for the selection of accounting holdings and the calculation of the reference period for gross standard production, the definition of general and main classes of technical and economic guidance and the specification of the main groups of accounting data to be collected for the agricultural accounting information network (arin). the network is considered necessary to meet the needs of the cap and, after the data have been transmitted to eurostat, it will serve as a basis for the commission to draw up reports on the situation of agriculture and agricultural markets and agricultural incomes in the union, which will be made publicly available on a dedicated website. the commission shall adopt delegated acts laying down the rules according to which member states are to draw up plans for the selection of returning holdings and defining, by means of implementing acts, the models and methods for calculating the production of holdings, the form and content of the data to be reported to the commission, and the classes and economic size of holdings, also with a view to making the accounting data collected through the returning holdings comparable irrespective of the returning holdings observed. we voted yes.
in writing. − this report lays down the general principles and standards of food law, establishes the european food safety authority and lays down food safety procedures which apply to all stages of production, processing and distribution of food and feed at union and national level. the general provisions of the union on foodstuffs are directly applicable to products covered by directives 1999/4/ec, 2000/36/ec, 2001/111/ec, 2001/113/ec and 2001/114/ec. consequently, it is no longer necessary for the commission to have the power to adapt the provisions of those directives to the general provisions of the union on foodstuffs. on the basis of these principles, i approve this report.
in writing. - i consider it essential that, several years after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the directives of the so-called breakfast package be amended to give the commission powers in accordance with the provisions of the treaty.
in writing. - i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending the directives in the field of food safety, as regards the powers to be conferred on the european commission. under the new rules implemented by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the adaptation of directives in the field of food safety is necessary in accordance with the powers conferred on the commission, in particular article 290 tfeu delegated acts (meaning powers delegated to the commission to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of legislative acts).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament presents a new wording of the amendments to the directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of goods and services. however, this explicit delegation of the power to amend characteristics affecting the descriptions, definitions or names of products - which are essential elements of the directives - goes beyond the scope of delegated acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty, which limits the delegation to the power to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the delegated acts to include the definition of products, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, the definition of the products covered by the delegated acts, and the provisions of the delegated acts.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'food additive' in the definition of foodstuffs. these powers allow the commission to adapt or update the technical elements of the annexes, which take account of developments in international standards and technical progress. the commission proposal has been slightly amended by the rapporteur, which limits the commission's implementing powers, particularly with regard to product descriptions, definitions and names. it also proposes a renewable five-year period and the submission of a report at the end of the five years. i am in favour of this report because i agree with these amendments.
in writing. the proposal aims to align the breakfast directives with the treaty as regards the delegation of powers to the commission. it thus amends five directives concerning coffee extracts and chicory extracts, cocoa and chocolate products, certain sugars, fruit jellies and confectionery, citrus fruit juices and chestnut cream, certain partially or fully dehydrated preserved milk intended for human consumption, in order to adapt or update promptly the technical elements of the annexes in order to take account of the evolution and technical progress of the applicable international standards. the commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in respect of adapting or updating the technical characteristics related to the product names and definitions in the annex. in order to include only non-essential elements and to avoid any ambiguity as to the scope of the commission's power to adopt delegated acts affecting essential elements such as the definition of products, the rapporteur proposes to limit the delegation of power as regards the power to adopt delegated acts concerning technical elements affecting the descriptions, definitions, sales denominations or characteristics of products. we voted yes.
in writing. − the directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive) is one of the cornerstones of european environmental law. it allows numerous public projects, such as the construction of bridges, ports, motorways or landfills, to take environmental impacts into account. in 28 years of application, this directive has proved to be effective and balanced, but it is urgent to adapt it to the new political priorities of the union, such as the soil strategy, the roadmap for a resource efficient europe and the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore important to update and modernise without distorting the original spirit and maintaining the balance between a high level of environmental protection and an investment-friendly attitude and sustainable development.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/eu, which concerns the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment, covering a wide range of projects in the environmental impact assessment (eia), is central to the union's environmental policy. the commission proposes a number of amendments which i support, including: only projects with significant environmental impact are subject to eia; broadening of the criteria and deadlines for decision; clear and transparent timetables at all stages of eia; possibility of public participation in the different stages of environmental impact assessment; independence of experts in the analysis of reports; promoters are obliged to provide corrective action. for a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, natural resources must be preserved and safeguarded.
in writing. - a further step has been taken to simplify the issuing of short-stay visas for citizens of the republic of cape verde and the eu. i welcome this report and voted in favour.
in writing. - as a member of the european parliament representing portugal, i can only be very pleased with the facilitation of the issuing of short-stay visas for cape verdean and european union citizens. the visa agreement aims to facilitate travel for cape verdean citizens to the eu and for european citizens to cape verde on a reciprocal basis. the agreement consolidates the eu-cape verde relationship on a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship. the republic of cape verde is a democratic and stable country. like the european union, cape verde upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the high standards and practices of governance that this country can be proud of are a good reason to further develop its relations with the european union.
in writing. − relations between the european union and cape verde are governed by the revised acp-ec cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005, by the eu-cape verde special partnership and by the eu-cape verde mobility partnership, signed on 5 july 2008. in the framework of the eu/cv special partnership, the european union has adopted a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship. the republic of cape verde is a democratic and stable country. like the european union, cape verde upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. nothing is more natural than this agreement, which will make it easier for cape verdean citizens to obtain short-stay visas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas for citizens of the republic of cape verde and of the european union.
in writing. the european parliament approved the conclusion of the negotiated agreement between the european union and cape verde on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas for the citizens of both parties. the agreement provides for a set of simplified conditions for issuing multiple-entry visas, a visa exemption for certain categories of persons, visa extension facilities, among other proposals. i therefore voted in favour of the document in parliament.
in writing. − the european parliament approved the conclusion of the agreement on the facilitation of short-stay visas on a reciprocal basis between the european union and the republic of cape verde, which provides for improvements for cape verdean citizens with regard to an intended stay of 90 days in each 180-day period. this facilitation will reduce the time and costs associated with travel to the schengen area. however, we cannot fail to stress the elitism in the granting of visas. the agreement introduces simplified conditions for the granting of multiple-entry visas valid for five years for members of governments or permanent members of official delegations and for one year for scientists, journalists and students. this agreement is in line with the application of the so-called blue card, which is part of the eu's immigration policy, which divides, classifies, selects and discriminates against immigrants according to their level of education, their social and economic status and the definition of labour needs.
in writing. - a further step has been taken towards the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, i welcome this report and have voted in favour.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament representing portugal, i am very pleased with the implementation of the agreement on the readmission of persons residing in the eu without authorisation, in parallel with the facilitation of the issuing of short-stay visas for the citizens of cape verde and the european union. relations between the european union and cape verde are governed by the revised acp-ec cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005, by the eu-cape verde special partnership and by the eu-cape verde mobility partnership, signed on 5 july 2008.
in writing. − relations between the european union and cape verde are governed by the revised acp-ec cotonou partnership agreement, signed on 23 june 2005, by the eu-cape verde special partnership and by the eu-cape verde mobility partnership, signed on 5 july 2008. in the framework of the eu/cv special partnership, the european union has adopted a policy that goes beyond the traditional donor-recipient relationship. the republic of cape verde is a democratic and stable country. like the european union, cape verde upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the agreement will allow the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, which will be another step in the strengthening of relations between the eu and cape verde.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation in the eu. the readmission obligations are defined on a basis of full reciprocity. they apply to nationals themselves as well as to third-country nationals and stateless persons. the obligation to readmit nationals also covers family members, i.e. spouses and minor unmarried children. for cape verde, this agreement constitutes progress and an incentive to deepen its relations with the european union, which is to be encouraged and supported. i would add that measures such as these require a proportional follow-up to measures of full integration in the adoptive communities.
in writing. the european parliament approved the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. the agreement determines the terms and conditions under which third-country nationals and stateless persons may be readmitted, provided that the respective obligations do not apply to persons in transit through an airport, or to persons to whom a visa or residence permit has been issued. for these reasons i voted in favour of parliament's document approving the council decision on the said agreement.
in writing. - this recommendation refers to the first readmission agreement concluded between an acp country and the european union on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, which is part of the so-called fight against illegal immigration. as we have been denouncing, it is basically a matter of expelling all the workers who, in the hope of a better life, emigrate to another country, but who are confronted with a human resources management that is screening, dismissing those whom it considers unnecessary. that is, a policy in which immigrants are only desired if they are considered necessary to the economy. this is a procedure which is part of a logic of exploiting the workforce in a global way, of which this agreement is only one of the visible faces. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering it of the utmost importance during this period of crisis that the european union continue to inspire young people by providing more opportunities in education and training, supporting the entrepreneurial and innovative spirit and fostering european citizenship in young people. in this way, with the funding programmes for youth and education and employment initiatives, the european union can make a difference and turn this inspiring effect on young people into a multiplier effect on the economic and social growth of the european union.
in writing. − on 27 april 2009, the european commission published, for the first time, a communication setting out a new european union strategy for youth. according to the commission, the next cycle, 2013-15, will continue to focus on youth employability through the full use of eu funding and will mainly target those who are out of work, out of education and not in training. to overcome this challenge, member states should make full use of available eu funding and make the most of the solution options offered by the youth opportunities initiative. in this regard, the adaptation of these instruments, starting with the new multiannual financial framework and the new eu programme for education, training, youth and sport and ending with new initiatives such as the youth guarantee, is of the utmost importance in order to ensure the best outcomes for young people. a youth strategy should also take account of new technologies and the role of the media in the lives of young people. i therefore gave my support to this report.
in writing. - whereas young people are facing increasing difficulties in transitioning from education to the labour market due to a mismatch between the educational programmes available and the labour market; whereas lifelong learning initiatives and intergenerational projects are useful tools for young people across the union to acquire the skills needed to enter the labour market, this report aims to support young people, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - europe, with particular emphasis on the southern countries, is going through a crisis which has exposed young europeans to unprecedented levels of unemployment and the risk of social exclusion and poverty. reducing the huge youth unemployment rates is a major priority at both national and european level, as it is endangering the social fabric and mortgaging the future of the eu. it is for the eu to support, including through the mobilisation of appropriate programmes and funds, all possible efforts to stimulate employability, learning mobility and participation of young people. i recognise that the first cycle of the eu youth strategy was a good start, but it must be strengthened, particularly with regard to improving access to employment, education and training, because only in this way will we be able to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is important to broaden and deepen the dialogue with young people, as their participation in democratic life is fundamental to enhancing the quality and legitimacy of youth policy. i also believe that the future eu youth programme should make a very positive contribution to the pursuit of the objectives of the eu youth strategy.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the most terrible aspects of the crisis we are experiencing, with some 5.5 million young people unemployed in the eu, concentrated mainly in greece, spain, italy and portugal. it is therefore welcome that the second cycle of the eu youth strategy (2013-2015) focuses on the employability of young people, focusing on training and qualifications, but also on concrete measures, such as the youth guarantee already launched, which make it possible to create jobs for young people and their employability.
in writing. − this report aims to highlight and propose appropriate solutions to the issues that currently pose the greatest challenges to the younger generations, and to contribute to the discovery of these solutions. the main objective remains to strengthen the policies pursued by the member states so that they achieve the best possible results and achieve their objectives. in addition, this report aims to highlight issues not covered by the current eu youth strategy. for example, the role of new technologies and the media cannot be relegated to the background, as their contribution to all aspects of young people's lives (from employment and participation to entertainment and expression) is increasing significantly today. the youth will play a key role in the process of overcoming the crisis that we all want. we must therefore continue to implement the strategy defined for youth in order to achieve the objectives proposed.
in writing. − i welcome the work of my colleague, georges papanikolaou, and voted in favour of this report, which states that it is of the utmost importance that, during this period of crisis, the eu continues to inspire young people by providing more opportunities in education and all forms of training, by investing in young people and supporting the spirit of innovation and entrepreneurship, by courageously funding programmes for young people and by believing that every euro spent on the new generations will have a multiplier effect on europe's growth and the strengthening of its social cohesion. the eu has the policies and instruments to do so, but nothing can be achieved without the determination of the member states. with the eu youth strategy, the union is sending a clear message by setting priorities and developing guidelines. however, the full, urgent and effective implementation of these guidelines is up to the member states, especially those facing the most serious problems. we need to act more quickly, to correct ineffective measures and to subsidize new measures, while remaining true to the eu's historic mission.
in writing. − the ongoing economic crisis is profoundly affecting young people's lives in terms of their well-being and social inclusion and is creating an unprecedented lack of opportunities for young europeans. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must take a more active stance in order not to lose an entire generation who decide to emigrate to other geographical areas in search of new job opportunities. i believe that this situation deserves a concrete commitment from the member states too, through greater investment in education, training and personal development in order to prevent a brain drain and encourage economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − the report recognises a considerable part of the problems facing young people today, such as unemployment and its alarming levels at youth level (23.5% in the eu in march 2013), the problem of school inequalities and absenteeism and the need to reduce early school leaving rates, the increase in poverty and social exclusion, extreme cases of malnutrition and mental health, the problem of informal, temporary and precarious jobs, unrelated to vocational training and qualifications. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in other words, it is not by achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, nor by more labour flexibility and facilitating dismissals, nor by increasing the precariousness of labour relations (which the eu 2020 advocates), that the scourge of youth unemployment can be combated. the report contains contradictions which we cannot ignore.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider youth unemployment to be one of the greatest challenges facing the european union and one which requires an urgent response. thanks to the socialist group, this report makes it clear that the member states and the commission need to provide more money to combat youth unemployment. in this way, member states that do not have a youth guarantee are encouraged to acquire one, and i think it is inevitable not to deny that there is a link between austerity and the level of unemployment, and this, as stated in this report, makes me personally happy, because it is necessary to be aware of the consequences of austerity in many member states. i also think that the obligation to pay for the traineeship is a good measure and that it cannot be used as a substitute for labour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that young people have a right to quality employment commensurate with their skills; that quality employment is fundamental to the dignity and autonomy of european youth.
in writing. − the prolonged effect of the crisis is aggravating an already difficult situation for many people, with unemployment levels rising sharply across europe. it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to find work, with one in five young people available for employment unable to get a job. in june 2013, youth unemployment rates ranged from over 10% in austria and germany to 64.2% in greece. recent forecasts suggest that the situation of young people will tend to worsen even more in some member states, with a particular focus on the countries of the south. it is essential to invest in young people and to propose effective and immediate actions to prevent and combat this phenomenon. measures to stimulate growth are needed to create new jobs in a joint effort between member states and the eu. member states should take decisive action with regard to the prevention of early school leaving, the development of labour market skills, support for first employment and vocational training and access to the labour market. labour market reforms should be implemented which contribute to a greater opening of the market to young people. it is also essential to combine national efforts with a broad and effective use of available eu financial support.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the most terrible aspects of the crisis we are going through, with a rate of around 23%. the adoption of the youth guarantee, particularly in its support and encouragement of job creation for young people through specific programmes, for which there should be an appropriate budgetary framework in the community framework, is to be welcomed. but that's not enough. i believe that if the eu really wants to respond to the problem of youth unemployment, it will have to focus not only on greater harmonisation of measures to combat youth unemployment, but also on measures to stimulate the overall recovery of the economy and reform of employment policies.
in writing. - the current situation of young people in the labour market is very worrying. unemployment among the working age population as a whole is around 11%, and among young people it is double that, at 23%. in the face of this bleak picture, action to combat youth unemployment must therefore be coordinated with measures to stimulate the overall recovery of the economy and with reform of employment policies. a genuine improvement in the situation of young people depends largely on support from the state, improved cooperation between employment services, vocational guidance services, training institutions and youth support services, including also active involvement of the social partners and representatives of young people or youth organisations. only by the joint efforts of all of us can we reverse the present situation and give hope to the millions of young people who are unemployed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a number of concrete measures to combat youth unemployment. parliament called for the creation of a separate chapter for young people, with a separate budget, under the erasmus for all programme, and for support for youth groups aiming to promote youth activities but not in an institutionalised way. the acquisition of various skills, including in an informal way, will promote the participation of young people in society and improve their competitiveness on the labour market. it is also considered particularly important to provide young people with high-quality traineeships and, to this end, adequate financial support should be provided to the bodies responsible for the organisation of such traineeships, introducing a mandatory control of the system to ensure that the appropriate level and effectiveness of such traineeships are maintained. in this regard, it is necessary to continue to actively promote traineeships among employers, who should regard this system as an opportunity to prepare people for a specific job and therefore as an opportunity to recruit and retain an employee with appropriate training and qualifications.
in writing. − according to eurostat, at the end of july 2013, the youth unemployment rate in the european union was 23.4%, while in the eurozone it was 24%. at present, more than 5.6 million young people are out of work, with some european countries having more than 50% of the young active population (croatia, spain, greece) and portugal 37.4%. i believe that the measures presented here are extremely positive and should focus on high quality education adapted to market needs, new levels of vocational training and new employment opportunities. i also voted in favour of the amendment by mrs roberta angelilli because i believe that companies can reduce their taxes when they hire young people, and that this reduction in the irc rate should be linked to the percentage of young people employed. a tax neutral measure, since the em is not harmed because instead of paying the unemployment allowance to the young people concerned, it ends up not receiving the money from the tax collection of the worker. in addition, the families of these young people avoid spending large sums of money to support the young people, and they are more likely to acquire new products and services.
in writing. - the main problem of this report is to identify the problem of youth unemployment, but to frame its solution in the same policies that have caused the increase in unemployment - in this case, namely, the european semester. yes, we are not opposed to a european youth guarantee or similar mechanisms. but we will never support a model which replaces actual work and which acts as a mechanism for confusing the work factor for companies. young people have the right to decent, quality work, which enables them to build their lives in safety. but as long as the economic policies that are the response of capitalism - and therefore the european union's response - to this crisis are not structurally broken, unemployment will continue to grow and this discussion will be only an ironic discussion of appearances, with no concrete results in the lives of young people.
in writing. − the services sector accounts for over 65% of gdp in the european union and is a dynamic, modern and future-oriented part of the european economy. however, three years after the deadline for transposition, the directive is not yet fully and correctly applied in all member states. a bolder approach by member states in the implementation of that directive would lead to an economic gain of three times the achieved amount, i.e. around 2,6% of gdp. in order to reduce red tape, improve legal certainty and facilitate a consistent application of eu rules, tools such as the internal market information system and the solvit network should be used more appropriately and more frequently. efforts should also be stepped up to simplify and make the single contact points more accessible and open to applications in the language of another member state. efforts should focus on creating more opportunities for business, more employment opportunities and more choice for consumers in a truly united market. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens the transparency and accountability of the institutions, enriching the mutual recognition which facilitates the free movement of services, where harmonised rules are not yet in force.
in writing. − the services sector accounts for over 65% of eu gdp and is a dynamic, modern and future-oriented part of the european economy. under the impetus of innovation, different modes of service delivery, such as digital and mobile services, are constantly emerging. the services directive has therefore been and should continue to be an important driver of structural reform of the european services sector, which has the potential to make a significant contribution to european economic recovery and competitiveness. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. − directive 2006/123/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 on services in the internal market aims to remove the remaining obstacles to the crossborder provision of services. after some difficulties in transposing the directive due to doubts from some member states, the guidelines for this procedure, which are designed to simplify coordination between member states in the areas of consumer protection, environmental protection, safety and public health, will finally be put into practice in all member states, and this report will contribute to an even more effective implementation and better operability of the measures presented. the internal market in services represents a large percentage of the eu's gdp and is essential to leverage the process of economic growth and exit from the severe crisis we are going through. hence my vote.
in writing. - the internal market in services does not mean reinventing the wheel; it means creating a common dynamic; it means progressing from inadequate implementation to full implementation. this resolution aims to confront member states with their responsibilities to fully and correctly implement the letter and spirit of the services directive. the european parliament recommends a broad interpretation covering new forms of services without calling for a revision of the directive. the economic crisis has made it even more urgent to act to unlock the full potential of the services sector for growth and employment. we cannot therefore afford to remove it from the political agenda. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the european commission adopted a communication on 8 june 2012 which criticizes the current state of implementation of the services directive and proposes concrete actions for the future. the parliament's document highlights the potential of the services sector for economic growth and job creation and calls on the member states to ensure the proper functioning of the market for trade and consumption, avoiding an administrative burden, and on the commission to promote an integrated approach to the internal market for services. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this is another report which aims to give life to the internal market as the cornerstone of european construction, this one done relatively in the services sector. what they really want is the liberalisation of services, including public services, and they are yielding to the pressure of the big economic and financial groups who see in this step new opportunities for exploiting workers and economic domination. at the same time as it seeks to undermine the sovereignty of states in defining, protecting and financing public services, it removes the possibility of defining rules for financing and defending services in general, reinforcing the power of supranational entities over the member states, such as the european commission, by imposing the primacy of competition, with very serious consequences for the rights of workers and the services provided to the population. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - whereas malaysia has held legislative elections and whereas malaysia is a founding member of asean and will chair the organisation in 2015; whereas malaysia is the eu's second most important trading partner in asean, which are the main reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − malaysia is the eu's second most important trading partner in the association of southeast asian nations (asean). eu-malaysia cooperation on women's rights, children's rights, indigenous peoples' rights, migration, freedom of the press and human rights defenders has been strengthened through regular contacts with civil society and the malaysian human rights commission (suhakam). we have also been gradually establishing cooperation with malaysia in areas covered by the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), such as maritime security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. on the basis of existing relations, we consider it important to strengthen them by establishing partnerships and agreements in other sectors, particularly in the economic, scientific and cultural fields. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a european parliament resolution, which i voted in favour of, sets out the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for an eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement, calling in particular for the inclusion of clear benchmarks and binding deadlines for the implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement and for the provision of follow-up mechanisms, including regular reporting to parliament. the eu negotiating team is also requested to continue its close cooperation with parliament by providing up-to-date information on the progress of the negotiations, in accordance with article 218 (10) tfeu.
in writing. the european parliament's position is in favour of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and malaysia. such an agreement should also include political dialogue, the condition of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, economic, scientific and cultural cooperation and other issues such as parliamentary cooperation. an agreement between the eu and malaysia will be an opportunity to start a new strategy in the union's bilateral relations, so i voted in favour of the report in parliament.
in writing. the aim of this agreement is to achieve the strategic objective of a free trade agreement. in this sense, they do not hesitate to interfere in its internal affairs and try to give lessons - detailed - to malaysia on the measures to be implemented to become the "good pupil" of the eu. the eu and the us are also calling for the release of the three hostages, who were found to be in possession of a firearm, and for the release of the three hostages. a free trade agreement would be a step towards political liberalization, i.e. finding parties and a political system available to promote the interests of their monopolies and their convergence with the interests of the monopolies of the major eu powers. the people of the eu and malaysia have nothing to gain from this agreement. this, like other free trade agreements, emphasizes the power of monopolies to the detriment of small and mediumsized enterprises, family farming and small-scale fishing. it is increasing the pressure for further privatisation and liberalisation and for the destruction of public services. it will put more pressure on workers, their wages, working conditions and social rights.
mr president, the use of chemical weapons must be condemned by all of us, but that does not mean that the solutions that have been found or discussed are the best. as has already been said, we are opposed to any foreign military intervention. it's not a matter of when, it's not a matter of if it's today or if it's tomorrow, it's a choice that has to be made and a safe choice. war is not an option. we cannot sacrifice a people and an entire region, and therefore the solution must be diplomatic, it must be political. a hundred thousand dead, millions of refugees cannot be extras in geostrategic games. the choice has to be given to the syrian people and the choice has to be the choice of democracy, of living with rights and in peace. it's not a choice between plague and tragedy, because that's not an option. we do not recognize the legitimacy of any international actor in the investigation of the case, except the united nations. we have no short-term memory. we know how many times we've been lied to. we want the united nations to lead the process. and we must oppose, once and for all, the civil war. there are people suffering, there are people on both sides. the european union can do a lot. it can support the refugees more than it has done, it can support the political solution even more than it has done and it can lead an international conference aimed at the prohibition and destruction of chemical, nuclear and bacteriological weapons. and, by the way, it would also be interesting to know which side mr hollande is on.
mr president, the resolution which parliament is going to adopt tomorrow sends an unequivocal message that the use of chemical weapons and the indiscriminate slaughter of civilians cannot be tolerated and go unpunished. referring criminals to the international criminal court is the least we can do, including the suppliers of chemical weapons. the barbaric attack on the people of ghouta is a crime against humanity and further proof that the assad regime does not hesitate to use any means to stay in power. moscow's proposal will now be explored. russia should have invested its weight and its relationship with syria long ago to assert the responsibility of the international community to protect the syrian people against a regime that is attacking them and to end a conflict that has already left 100,000 dead, 2 million refugees and more than 5 million displaced. russia and china are left with the burden of blocking action by the un security council two years ago. let's not kid ourselves the ultimatum to damascus must now take effect. otherwise, further action will be necessary, based on the principles and values of the united nations charter, as we have stated in the european parliament's resolution. to force assad to surrender... to destroy his chemical arsenal, to stop massacring his people and to negotiate an end to the conflict. and let's not kid ourselves. geneva ii, to have results, has to bring everyone to the table, including regional powers, like assad's decisive backer, iran. the international community has a moral obligation to prevent ghouta from happening again in syria or anywhere else in the world. if the security council is blocked, we have to go to the general assembly to obtain the legitimacy for the legitimacy of the action that is required, and the european union has a responsibility in this. i'll end by saying that there's not just bad guys fighting bad guys in syria. there is a people who have rebelled against an oppressive regime. it is the protection of these people that must be at the heart of our action.
mr president, egypt needs national reconciliation, an inclusive process that respects human rights. it needs an action plan with a timetable for the drafting of a new constitution for presidential and parliamentary elections with guarantees of transparency. there is no democracy without inclusion. a political force with the representation of the muslim brotherhood cannot be left out of the democratic game. to condemn it to the underground is to foment political, religious radicalism, insurgency, to liquidate democracy. the transitional government must release president morsi, end the persecution of muslim brotherhood supporters, respect and enforce freedom of expression, association and press. the closure of four television channels and mosques is not a good thing. the high representative has the capacity to engage in dialogue with all egyptian partners, including the muslim brotherhood. you should use it to encourage the real reforms that are needed. it must be coordinated with the united states, it must be coordinated in particular with pressure on the regional actors who compete with each other in financing the extremist groups that are fomenting the polarization of egyptian society. the european ministers have decided to suspend all licences for the transfer of arms and military technology to egypt, but we have a credibility problem: tear gas is not on the list, and there are items that are not licensed in the member countries of the european union. this is a question of the essence for our credibility and also for the effectiveness of our intervention in egypt.
the rapporteur. - i would like to begin by thanking all the contributions of colleagues who have enriched the report i have been asked to draw up on the maritime dimension of the common security and defence policy. the european parliament's vision for the development of a european maritime security strategy - which is due to be adopted by the council in december - is even more essential in times of economic and financial crisis in the union, placing the emphasis on the imperative of rationalising and articulating national and european civil and military means and capacities to ensure maritime security on the european union's coasts, in its neighbourhood and globally. maritime safety is vital to the functioning of democracy, to the rule of law and respect for our citizens and to economic progress in the union. it depends on the fluidity of global sea flows. 90% of the union's external trade and 40% of our internal trade is transported by sea. this report thus seeks to identify the elements which currently restrict the ability of member states and the union to act in a coordinated manner in defence of europe's security and interests in the oceans. in the face of threats such as organised crime, trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs, terrorism, piracy, environmental and ecological risks and also to stop the misuse of the extraordinary economic opportunities, the extraordinary economic riches that the sea offers us. we are making concrete proposals here for the union to overcome the current shortcomings and failings and to build a truly strategic maritime policy which, in compliance with international law and in particular the united nations convention on the law of the sea, integrates the defence and security aspects by promoting the synergy of civil and military resources and capabilities of the union and the member states, including the development of the necessary industrial and technological base, which creates jobs and implies innovation and creativity. the development of the maritime dimension of the common security and defence policy is essential for the union's positioning as a global actor providing security. it is crucial for the fulfilment of its international obligations and for dealing with risks and threats to the security of citizens and the european continent. these challenges are so often beyond our own backs, our closest neighbors. let us look, for example, at those resulting from the identification of the sea flows which will intensify, for example, the transit between the atlantic and the pacific oceans with the enlargement of the panama canal planned for next year. there are tremendous economic opportunities, no doubt, but there are also tremendous challenges and threats. what about the piracy phenomenon which triggered the deployment of operation atalanta off the coast of somalia, the first european union naval mission under the common security and defence policy? it demonstrates the need for the development of these naval capabilities and their positioning beyond our shores. in fact, piracy, which used to be in somalia or the indian ocean, is now in the atlantic ocean, in the gulf of guinea, alongside human trafficking, drug trafficking and arms trafficking. we have terrorist networks that, as we know, are targeting the european continent itself. so our states must understand that in this time of crisis the mottos pool and share or smart defence in the framework of nato must have a practical translation and this also applies to maritime capabilities. they have to rely on the european defence agency to make the savings that are necessary to invest in the equipment that we absolutely need to have an integrated maritime policy with the use of our civil and military capabilities. only in this way will we be able to serve the european citizens and the role europe must play in the world as a global provider of security, including in the oceans.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to take the opportunity to congratulate my colleague, ms giannakou, on her report. her philosophy and her approach to the matters dealt with there very much coincide with those of my own report – which has been adopted by the committee on foreign affairs and on which we will vote tomorrow – on the maritime dimension of the csdp. the thinking is similar, as are the concerns: with the resources needed for pooling and sharing these capabilities and the need to plan for the future. these things are essential, as it is essential to actually understand the major threats and challenges. i also want to thank my colleagues for all their contributions. i very much agree with what mr danjean said about financing for the csdp and all the effort in terms of equipment and the capabilities that will have to be acquired. i strongly share – and this is in the report – ms meissner’s view about the need for a european coastguard. i very much welcome the kind words by the presidency, highlighting the contribution of this report. i also welcome most of the criticisms because they stem from a point of view which is anti-csdp and against a europe for defence and security. i believe that this europe for defence and security is essential, not just for european citizens but actually for the world. i see, and i believe in, europe as a global provider of security and of respect for international law. obviously, everything advocated in our reports must be conducted with due regard for international law and, in the case of the maritime dimension, for the un convention on the law of the sea. i take issue with one of the criticisms by my colleague mr bütikofer – who is no longer here – who accused me of imperial nostalgia. i am sorry that he does not know this, but i fought against colonialism in the old days of the dictatorship and the colonial time, and i do not accept this kind of criticism. i hope he does not have to eat his words if, one of these days, a cruise ship of vacationing german citizens is the target of a terrorist attack somewhere in the middle of the ocean, maybe in an area under the control of my country which, despite being the third country of the eu as a maritime economic zone and the tenth in the world, does not actually have the capability to deal with a major terrorist attack if it occurs in our waters. that is exactly why we need europe. i hope he does not need to take back what he said and regret the alliance that he has apparently formed with mr van orden and ms lösing, who are normally against the csdp. pardon my french: les grands esprits se rencontrent.
in the last two years, a construction company called açomonta has been practicing modern slavery on portuguese workers on the border between france and luxembourg, who are not paid the minimum wage and are housed in inhumane conditions, crowded together, sleeping in warehouses. the company received more than €67 000 from the european social fund, a scandal that is not unique. today, with the european commission and the european union's much-loved policies to promote unemployment, workers are forced to work under any conditions. in the 21st century, with 19th century conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety and health at work of workers is not compromised. but the data is scarce and non-existent. it is necessary to investigate them seriously, knowing that many of the cases are not even reported to the authorities, they remain silent and in the fear in which many workers live today. prevention, proper supervision, public investment, combating the precariousness of work that is always associated with the number of accidents and the absence of health and hygiene conditions at work, the criminalisation of work accidents - these are urgent steps that are difficult to achieve with the policies of the european union, which increasingly devalue and deprive workers of dignity.
mr president, commissioner, the protection of the health and safety of workers is a priority for the european parliament. as the european strategy expired in 2012, we naturally want to know when the commission will present a new strategy and what the reasons for this delay are. parliament has played a key role in improving legislation on working conditions, which should be adapted to people's abilities and needs, not the other way around. parliament has approved improvements to legislation on the protection of pregnant workers, women who have recently given birth and women who are breastfeeding, the so-called maternity leave directive, for which i am the rapporteur. in july 2008, the commission presented a proposal for a revision of that directive. in october 2010, the european parliament approved my report. unfortunately, the matter remains blocked in the council, without the commission having taken any steps or exercised any pressure on the council to unblock this important matter. parliament has also stressed - and has been referred to by several speakers here today - the need to improve legislation on the protection of workers against rheumatic and musculoskeletal diseases. these diseases affect some 120 million people and represent a major burden on health and social security systems. in the european union alone, 25% of long-term absenteeism is due to rheumatic and musculoskeletal disorders. i have been following this matter because i am chairman of the parliamentary interest group on musculoskeletal diseases. it is therefore clear to me, commissioner, that we need a new strategy, one which is adapted to the new realities and to the evolution of society itself.
youth unemployment is the biggest problem facing europe, more serious than the budget deficit and sovereign debt crisis. in some member states, such as spain and croatia, it is above 50%. and yet, this is the most qualified young generation ever. the situation is dramatic and tends to worsen. it is therefore essential that the european funds which will enable the european youth guarantee to come into force, which will be able to offer young people a job, a traineeship or further studies, no later than four months after completing their studies or enrolling in an employment centre, be released immediately. i also support the strengthening of the current financing proposal of eur 6 billion, which is clearly insufficient. the eu cannot say that tackling youth unemployment is a priority and not provide the means to achieve it. according to recent estimates, we need around eur 10 billion to ensure that access to the european youth guarantee has a truly european dimension. in the present context, this funding cannot be seen as a burden, it is an investment to get out of the crisis.
the european response to the crisis has been too weak, insufficient and too late. however, if banking union is complete by the end of this mandate, we will have made significant post-crisis progress. the banking system, especially in europe, is the pool that irrigates the real economy. the function of banking is to turn the savings of many into investment that creates wealth and employment. when he ceases to fulfill these functions and lives on speculative games and high-stakes gambling, he jeopardizes the entire survival of the community. neoliberal theses have allowed toxic financial products to flood the markets, and the option of not regulating the financial system has also allowed banking to become contaminated. when the bubble burst, the entire system was in jeopardy. the states had to save the banks, while being financed by them. the death spiral between banks and states almost killed the euro and the european union, destroyed the real economy and wiped out jobs. we must draw all the lessons from this historic disaster. building a banking union seemed impossible before the crisis. today it begins to be a reality. but the important thing is that the reform momentum is not lost. the european parliament is aware of this urgency, as is the commission, and has shown it by working seriously and rapidly. we're building a building on three pillars. a building is only solid if its pillars are coherent with each other. in a single market, both the rules to be followed by banks and the criteria for their supervision must also be uniform. this first pillar will be formally completed today when we vote on legislation that puts the ecb at the heart of the single supervisory system, in close coordination with the eba and the national supervisors. parliament has demanded transparency in the decisions of the supervisory board and active participation in the appointment of its officials, which is normal in a democracy, and this week's negotiations have proved it right. but it will be of little use to obey common rules if, when a bank goes into crisis, it is returned to the national authorities to be bailed out by taxpayers' money. the new legislation we'll finalize by the end of the year imputes losses to shareholders and other creditors in a clear hierarchy. i congratulate the commission on this proposal and we congratulate it on having put forward before the summer the proposal for the creation of a common european resolution fund funded by all banks according to their risk profile. negotiations between parliament and the council on the third pillar, the harmonization of deposit guarantee funds, have also been reopened. nothing is complete, but there is finally a vision for the european banking system that is more than words. we hereby recognise the principles advocated by our political group and the objectives and instruments proposed by this parliament in its owninitiative report of 2010. the negotiating processes are far from over and there is always the risk of concessions to vested interests. but can the citizens count on an active, cooperative european parliament, determined to build banking legislation that stimulates the financing of the real economy, not speculation, that protects the taxpayer from the wrong choices of shareholders and managers, and that protects european depositors from risks they never decided to take on? we hope that the other partners, in particular the council, will be imbued with the same spirit. the economic and social disaster - and i will finish this now - which still persists in the wake of the 2008 crisis does not allow any escape from responsibility (...) (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report describing the ombudsman's activities in 2012. i welcome the ombudsman's achievements during his ten-year mandate, including his work to promote a culture of service and good administration in the eu institutions and as a guardian of transparency.
in writing. − the ombudsman's activity in 2012 was intense. 740 complaints fell within the ombudsman's remit and 1720 fell outside it, the lowest number in the last ten years. in more than 75% of cases, the ombudsman helped the complainant by opening an inquiry (18.3%), referring the case to the competent body or advising the complainant on which body to turn to (57.1%). we can thus see that european citizens see the european ombudsman as a body to which they can turn in their relations with the eu institutions.
in writing. − following a ten-year mandate, the european ombudsman has retired and the european parliament, in this report, thanks the ombudsman for the results achieved during his ten-year mandate, in particular his work to promote a culture of service and good administration in the eu institutions and as a guardian of transparency. the ombudsman formally submitted his last annual report to the president of parliament on 21 may 2013 and presented his report to the committee on petitions on 28 may 2013 in brussels. i voted in favour of this annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2012.
in writing. − the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2012 was formally presented to the president of the european parliament on 21 may 2013. i am in favour of this report which summarises the ombudsman's activities in the year under review and in which it can be seen that 465 inquiries were opened (an increase of 18% compared to 2011) and 390 inquiries were closed (an increase of 23% compared to 2011). overall, as in 2011, the ombudsman helped more than 22 000 citizens by handling their complaints (2442 cases), responding to their requests for information (1211) or providing advice through the interactive guide on his website (19 281). nikiforos diamandouros was first elected ombudsman in 2003 and subsequently re-elected in 2005 and 2010, and i would like to congratulate him on the work he has done and which has contributed greatly to supporting and enlightening european citizens.
in writing. − the european ombudsman has stated that after 10 years he will leave public life at the level of the european union and return to his previous activity as an academic, student and active private citizen. this is therefore its latest annual report, in which it reports that in 2012 it opened 465 inquiries (an increase of 18% compared to 2011) and closed 390 inquiries (an increase of 23% compared to 2011), having helped more than 22 000 citizens in processing their complaints (2442 cases), requests for information (1211) or advice on its website's interactive guide (19 281). the ombudsman reports that he has participated in more than 50 bilateral events and meetings, including with members of the legal community, business associations, think tanks, ngos, representatives of regional and local administrations, lobby and interest groups, academics, high-level political representatives and public officials. we acknowledged the ombudsman's work and voted in favour. we do not consider that this figure fills the way in which the eu imposes and conditions the lives of eu citizens, countries and their sovereign institutions in an undemocratic way on a daily basis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the common visa policy is a key element in the field of immigration, giving visas an essential role as a tool to control irregular immigration.
in writing. − freedom of movement within the schengen area depends on the existence of an effective and coherent common visa policy. some third-country nationals have, however, taken advantage of the possibility of visa-free travel for the purpose of irregular migration. the visa waiver is granted to the holder of a visa who is a national of a member state of the european union or a third country and who is a national of a member state of the european union or a third country, and is issued in accordance with the conditions laid down in the schengen acquis. the amendment of the reciprocity mechanism, which is the guiding principle of our common visa policy, is also of particular importance, because the current system is not working efficiently. we need a more effective mechanism to enable the union to respond more quickly if there is a breach of the principle of reciprocity. only in this way can we ensure the existence of a european unity and strengthen solidarity between member states. the agreement reached, while not perfect, was the best possible. i commend the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, for his perseverance and for the excellent work which has enabled this commitment to be reached. i regret that we have not been able to change the comitology procedure with regard to the introduction of the suspension clause in such a way as to reserve a more appropriate role for the ep in the whole process.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 539/2001 establishes the list of third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa requirement for crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. this regulation lays down the conditions under which nationals of a third country may benefit from the exemption from the visa requirement for short stays in the territory of the european union. the report makes a number of amendments to that regulation, including the introduction of a safeguard clause allowing for the temporary suspension of the exemption from the visa requirement in an emergency situation, the amendment of the reciprocity mechanism, the establishment of definitions in accordance with the community code on visas, ensuring visa-free conditions for third-country nationals, refugees and stateless persons, various categories of third-country nationals and holders of passports or visas issued by entities governed by international law, and finally the adoption of provisions on the obligations of member states under international agreements. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the common visa policy is a key element in the field of immigration, giving visas an essential role as a tool to control irregular immigration. the proposal to amend the regulation is the commission's reaction to the recent misuse of the community visa system. it was found that a significant number of third-country nationals were travelling to the union territory to apply for international protection without objective reasons, taking advantage of the visa waiver. it is intended to introduce the possibility of suspending the visa exemption but the mechanism should only be activated in very specific cases of urgency and where a significant and sudden increase in the number of irregular immigrants or unfounded applications for international protection has been detected. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the aim is to implement mechanisms of a kind of 'cordon sanitaire' in the face of potential migratory waves resulting from the eu's neo-colonial policies and new hotbeds of military conflict, with all that this generates and from which the eu is not separated. the amendments introduced by this proposal to the visa-free policy, and above all to its suspension, continue to give the european union, and in particular the commission, powers at the heart of the sovereignty of states over relations with third countries and over their immigration policy, particularly over the granting of visas. the introduction of these amendments speeds up the suspension mechanism based on the denunciation of a single member state by implementing so-called reciprocity measures which, in practice, open or close borders according to the state of relations with a particular country and its greater or lesser compatibility with the interests of the eu and also with the interests of the labour force at the moment in the eu. what is all too clear is that these amendments further deepen the vision inherent in schengen and deepened by the lisbon treaty, considering immigrants from third countries as potential criminals, beneficiaries of the generosity of eu asylum policy, or violators of public order.
in writing. − the european union has been developing strategies and mechanisms to combat the economic crisis with the capacity to restore confidence in financial systems and to boost the growth capacity of the member states' economies in a sustained way. the european commission, the european parliament and the council have recently launched a roadmap for a stronger economic union. the establishment of a banking union, the first pillar of which will comprise the creation of a single supervisory mechanism, is part of this roadmap. while it is the responsibility of the european central bank to ensure the proper supervision of european banks, the european banking authority will be responsible for ensuring the integrated and harmonised application of the relevant legislation, ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market for financial services. the report proposes that the european banking authority should create a single supervisory guide, which is essential to ensure consistent application of the regulation, and ensure, within its mandate, the full and equal participation of all member states wishing to join the single supervisory mechanism, whether they belong to the euro area or not. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union has been developing strategies and mechanisms to combat the economic crisis with the capacity to restore confidence in financial systems and to boost the growth capacity of member states' economies in a sustained manner. the european commission, the european parliament and the council of the european union have recently launched a roadmap for a stronger economic union. the establishment of a banking union, the first pillar of which will comprise the creation of a single supervisory mechanism (ssm), is part of this roadmap. while it is the ecb's responsibility to ensure the proper supervision of european banks, eba will be responsible for ensuring the integrated and harmonised application of the relevant legislation, ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market for financial services. the report proposes that the eba should create a single supervisory guide, which is essential to ensure consistent enforcement of the regulation, and ensure, within its mandate, the full and equal participation of all those who wish to join the ssm, whether they belong to the euro area or not. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - a set of two legislative documents was adopted today creating a single supervisory authority for banking, the first pillar towards the creation of a european banking union. we are thus facing a historic milestone in the completion of economic and monetary union, which the recent economic and financial crisis had shown to be too weak and fragmented to cope with the adversities. from today, the european central bank will be the ultimate supervisor of all banks and financial institutions in the european union, and together with national supervisors it will ensure the correct application of the new capital requirements rules, supervise stress tests and check on the solvency conditions of banks. it was therefore necessary to review and adjust the rules and powers of the eba (european banking authority) to make them compatible and functional with the new powers that the ecb and the eba itself will now exercise. this is an essential and decisive step towards ending the fragmentation of this important economic sector and strengthening the european union on the world stage.
in writing. - this report aims to give the european banking authority more powers and competences in the supervision of banking institutions, in particular by creating a single rulebook to allow better control of the activities of these institutions within the european union. given that the financial crisis we are experiencing was created by the malfunctioning and lack of supervision of banking, greater supervision and regulation is needed to prevent future crises. we must be more ambitious and demanding in this respect and give the eba even more powers so that it can carry out its duties fully and transparently. i abstained.
in writing. − the creation of a single supervisory mechanism is fundamental to the creation of a european banking union, which should be based on a single set of rules for financial services, also integrating the harmonisation of the different national deposit guarantee schemes and a common european resolution framework. the banking union should be based on appropriate checks and balances, accountability between political institutions at eu and national level and bodies with supervisory responsibilities at both eu and national level. the european supervisory authority will have a very important role to play in preventing future crises in the financial sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 establishing a european supervisory authority (european banking authority) as regards its interaction with the regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions.
in writing. − the various european institutions have been working on a roadmap for the achievement of a genuine economic and monetary union, including concrete proposals to preserve the unity and integrity of the single market for financial services. i would like to congratulate all those involved in the preparation of this proposal which gives the european central bank greater supervisory powers, creates the european supervisory authority (european banking authority), ensures the improvement of the single market and greater cohesion in the european union. finally, i would like to stress that i see the single supervisory mechanism as the first step towards the creation of a genuine european banking union, based on a single set of rules for financial services, which also includes the harmonization of the different national deposit guarantee schemes.
in writing. - once again, the decisions taken by the majority in the ep are dominated by the neoliberal dogmas of deepening the internal market for financial services and guaranteeing the free movement of capital. after supervision comes resolution and after that something that says defend bank deposits. the concerns are evident in creating mechanisms to facilitate eu intervention to save some banks, as has been happening in recent years - without such mechanisms being in place - and to let others down. this is therefore a process of concentration and centralisation of financial capital at eu level. these mechanisms cast suspicion on certain banks, especially those in the peripheral countries, in order to concentrate financial capital in the banks of the great powers or to subordinate even more the economic groups of each country to the large transnational capital and its strategies not only to maintain but to deepen the speculative process. harmonization after harmonization, loss upon loss of sovereign power in each country and the situation of the majority of the workers and peoples, especially in countries like portugal, is worsening, while their power to decide or influence the decision is being reduced very significantly.
in writing. − the fragility of the european economic situation caused by an unprecedented crisis has forced the eu to develop concerted and ambitious actions to sustain the creation of conditions for economic prosperity and to restore stability to european financial markets. in this sense, one of the fundamental steps towards restoring confidence in the recovery of the union's economic area is the construction of a solid banking union, based on a number of pillars, of which the single supervisory mechanism is a prominent support. this report deals specifically with the creation of the single supervisory mechanism which will cover the financial institutions of the euro area and will be open to all other member states wishing to join it. the aim is to define how the ecb, as the ultimate supervisor of european banks, will perform its tasks, ensuring the stability of the system and maintaining its independence as the monetary policy authority. in march the european parliament concluded negotiations with the council of the european union on this dossier, which are contained in this report. after the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement with the ecb, its accountability to parliament is clarified and this report will be adopted with my support.
in writing. − the fragility of the european economic situation, caused by an unprecedented crisis, has forced the eu to develop concerted and ambitious actions to sustain the creation of conditions for economic prosperity and to restore stability to european financial markets. in this respect, one of the key steps towards restoring confidence in the recovery of the union's economic area is the building of a solid banking union, based on a number of pillars, of which the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is a prominent support. this report deals specifically with the creation of the ssm, which will cover the financial institutions of the euro area and will be open to all other member states wishing to join it. the purpose of this text is to define how the ecb, as the ultimate supervisor of european banks, will perform its tasks, ensuring the stability of the system and maintaining its independence as the authority responsible for monetary policy. in march, the european parliament concluded negotiations with the council of the european union on this dossier, which are contained in this report. after the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement with the ecb, its accountability to parliament is clarified and this report will be adopted with my support.
in writing. - a set of two legislative documents was adopted today creating a single supervisory authority for banking, the first pillar towards the creation of a european banking union. we are thus facing a historic milestone in the completion of economic and monetary union, which the recent economic and financial crisis had shown to be too weak and fragmented to cope with the adversities. from today, the european central bank will be the ultimate supervisor of all banks and financial institutions in the european union, and together with national supervisors it will ensure the proper application of the new capital requirements rules, supervise stress tests and check on the solvency conditions of banks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the european parliament and the council on the european banking system.
in writing. − the fragility of the european economic situation, caused by an unprecedented crisis, has forced the eu to develop concerted and ambitious actions to sustain the creation of conditions for economic prosperity and to restore stability to european financial markets. in this respect, one of the key steps towards restoring confidence in the recovery of the union's economic area is the building of a solid banking union, based on a number of pillars, of which the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) is a prominent support. this report deals specifically with the creation of the ssm, which will cover the financial institutions of the euro area and will be open to all other member states wishing to join it. the purpose of this text is to define how the ecb, as the ultimate supervisor of european banks, will perform its tasks, ensuring the stability of the system and maintaining its independence as the authority responsible for monetary policy. in march, the european parliament concluded negotiations with the council of the european union on this dossier, which are contained in this report. after the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement with the ecb, its accountability to parliament is clarified and this report will be adopted with my support.
in writing. - i voted against this report because, although greater banking supervision is needed, the ecb has no democratic legitimacy to exercise this function. the supervisory power should be transferred to the european banking authority once it has been given full powers and competences to exercise effective and transparent supervision of banking institutions.
in writing. − i agree to confer on the ecb the specific supervisory tasks which are crucial to ensure a consistent and effective implementation of the union's policy on the prudential supervision of credit institutions, with other tasks remaining the responsibility of national authorities. the ecb's tasks should include measures taken to promote macroprudential stability. the ecb should perform the tasks conferred on it with a view to ensuring the safety and soundness of credit institutions, the stability of the financial system of the union and of each of the participating member states, and the unity and integrity of the internal market, thereby also ensuring the protection of depositors and improving the functioning of the internal market. the conferral of supervisory tasks on the ecb should be consistent with the framework of the european system of financial supervision (esfs), established in 2010, and with its underlying objective, namely the development of a single set of rules and the enhancement of supervisory convergence across the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thyssen report (and also the giegold report) on the single prudential regulation of credit institutions at union level by the european central bank, in the belief that this is one of the most important steps towards building a genuine economic and monetary union. a real qualitative leap, as the president of the european parliament said. i have been arguing for many years that there cannot be an integrated market for financial services, including a growing number of banks with cross-border activities, with fragmented regulation at national level and without federal regulation at union level. i also consider that this failure constituted one of the major shortcomings of the architecture of the euro and of the internal market for financial services, and contributed decisively to the spread of the financial crisis in 2008/2009. the single banking supervision - the main pillar of the banking union - can therefore only be welcomed by all those who are committed to the eu's progress. let us hope that the other two pillars - the bank resolution mechanism and the deposit protection system - will also have a positive outcome.
in writing. - the current financial and economic crisis has brought europe's banking system close to collapse. the integrity of the single currency and the single market is threatened by the fragmentation of the financial sector. i voted in favour of this report which sets out proposals to step up the integration of the banking sector in order to strengthen european unity, restore financial stability and lay the foundations for economic recovery.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis currently affecting most member states has brought europe's banking system close to collapse, with a serious blow to the integrity of the single currency and the single market. i therefore vote in favour of this report, because i believe that it is urgent to intensify the integration of the banking sector and to strengthen european unity, restoring much-needed financial stability and laying the foundations for economic recovery. i would also like to stress that the ecb should be given specific and well-defined tasks with a view to promoting the safety and soundness of credit institutions and the stability of the financial system in the eu and in each of the participating member states of the eu.
in writing. - as the report itself acknowledges, the current crisis has brought europe's banking system close to collapse. the establishment of the single supervisory mechanism, in which the ecb will have a central role, is intended not to interfere with the essential things: the functioning of the internal market for financial services, the free movement of capital. the ecb is thus taking over supervisory functions which were previously carried out by national institutions, such as the banco de portugal. contrary to what the argument on which this proposal is based might suggest, it was not for lack of supervisory mechanisms that banks turned the essence of their activity to financial speculation, but this resulted first of all from the contradiction between the overproduction and overaccumulation of means of production and the contraction of markets and consumption caused by the loss of purchasing power of wages (due to their contraction) and their replacement by credit. in other words, the banks turned their main activity to financial speculation, with the complicity of the supervisory authorities and the ecb, which provided them with cheap credit and calmly and fearlessly watched speculation in new financial instruments and so-called sovereign debts.
in writing. − the loss of biodiversity is accelerating. the preservation of biodiversity is essential for the socioeconomic vitality of europe. to participate in the preservation of biodiversity, it is necessary that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge are shared today in a fair and equitable way. i agree with all the rapporteur's proposals because they aim to ensure that the european union takes its place and its leading role in current and future international negotiations, by promoting a progressive position in order to rapidly arrive at an ambitious global multilateral mechanism that can meet the challenges of preserving biodiversity and its sustainable use.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to transpose the nagoya protocol, which provides for the fair and equitable sharing of benefits for all uses of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge. the commission proposal thus provides a solid basis for building an effective european-wide system of access to and sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources in the eu.
in writing. − the loss of biodiversity is accelerating. some 60% of ecosystems have been degraded in the last 50 years (fao, 2010). beyond an ethical and moral responsibility, the economic and social impact of this decline is enormous: 7% of global gdp will be lost annually by 2050 (teeb report, 2010). paradoxically, it is in biological diversity that lies an inexhaustible source of innovation and discovery in the field of scientific research, technological applications or health, food, cosmetic and other products. in this way, the preservation of biodiversity is not only essential for the future of all humanity, but also for the socioeconomic vitality of europe and all citizens, who are the direct beneficiaries of its use. we must work to combat the loss of biodiversity, as this will contribute to economic development and job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the implementation and ratification by the union of the nagoya protocol - on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use. i voted in favour of agreeing with the european parliament's position that this european regulation should be as close as possible to both the spirit and the letter of this international treaty. the commission proposal provides a solid basis for building an effective system at european level. however, full compliance with the nagoya protocol requires some mechanisms to be strengthened, as parliament suggests. if the question of access to resources is left to the sovereignty of the member states, it is important to present a clear community framework on the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of natural resources.
in writing. − the union has implemented an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020, which commits to increasing its contribution to preventing global biodiversity loss by 2020. i would point out that this protocol includes research and development related to the genetic and/or biochemical composition of genetic material - e.g. dna, genes, etc. a number of industries, including the pharmaceutical and food and drink industries, use genetic material for research purposes that improve the quality of life of european citizens. i support this report which encourages the use of genetic resources for research, development and marketing purposes, some of which also use traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources.
in writing. − the proposals for amendments to the regulation are all intended to give the european union a leading role in current and future international negotiations, promoting a progressive position in order to reach an ambitious global multilateral mechanism quickly. whatever supranational attitude the eu is intended to adopt in this area, we do not fail to agree with the basic question of stopping degradation and preserving biodiversity. we are, however, alert to the contradictions within community policies which undermine this very objective. the main action points focus on improving the chain of use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, enhancing transparency and legal certainty, and on progressive compliance in new uses of genetic resources for the fair and equitable sharing of benefits for all uses of genetic resources, as enshrined in the convention on biological diversity and the nagoya protocol. a final proposal is to create a european union benefit-sharing fund to be funded by the users of genetic resources with a view to preserving the world's biodiversity. we voted yes.
in writing. − for the eu to achieve its long-term renewable energy targets, microgeneration must be a key element of future energy production. microgeneration contributes to increasing the overall share of renewable sources in the eu energy mix and allows for efficient electricity consumption close to the production site. the implementation of the small-scale heat and electricity production strategies under the current eu policy framework needs to be improved if the eu is to be a leader in electricity.
in writing. − the use of microgeneration, small-scale energy production for own consumption, is essential for the advancement of alternative energies in europe in order to meet our climate, energy and growth objectives. the regulatory framework for microgeneration should therefore be simple, effective and fast, following best practice.
in writing. − the european union is increasingly dependent on imports from third countries for energy supply, and this needs to change to ensure that climate, energy and growth objectives are met. decentralised and small-scale energy production provides an opportunity for households, small and medium-sized enterprises and communities, both urban and rural, to work together to tackle climate change by becoming energy producers. for the eu to achieve its long-term renewable energy targets, microgeneration must be a key element of future energy production. microgeneration contributes to increasing the total share of renewable sources in the eu's energy mix and allows for efficient electricity consumption close to the production site, avoiding losses in transport. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which stresses the importance of promoting renewable energy cooperatives at local level, both in rural and urban areas, in the need to increase public support for renewable energy and to promote awareness and participation of citizens in small-scale energy production, improving access to renewable energy and generating investment.
in writing. − microgeneration is a concept that benefits smes, european consumers and local and regional authorities. in line with the union's objectives of a green and smart economy, microgeneration consists of the generation of heat and cooling that meets the individual needs of individuals, smes and local communities. microgeneration technologies include wind turbines, heat pumps, solar panels and photovoltaics. for this sector to succeed, there needs to be a real european energy market, the creation of incentives at national level and the de-bureaucratization of access to the national grid. at european level, there should be an application of incentive strategies and policies. the union must maintain its leading role in combating climate change and micro-generation has a role to play here that should not be forgotten. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − microgeneration is the small-scale production of heating/cooling and distribution of electricity by individuals and smes to meet their own needs. the different forms of small-scale production suggest that microgeneration covers a number of different technologies: hydroelectric, geothermal, solar, marine and wind energy, heat pumps, biomass. the resolution points to important factors such as the technical development of micro-generation units, the deployment of intelligent energy infrastructures, and effective short, medium and long-term support policies to encourage this energy production. however, the old maxim of the proper functioning of the internal energy market, which is no longer new, is not being abandoned, just that it is the guarantor of the continuation of the policy of handing over this sector to the large energy companies. it is also clear that these are largely responsible for the energy poverty that is currently being experienced in the eu, which affects 125 million people in the union, depriving them of access to energy, a situation generated mainly by the increase in energy prices. we warn against using micro-generation to hold consumers accountable for lowering the price of their energy bill, in order to continue to guarantee the fabulous profits of european energy companies.
in writing. − the slow progress in eliminating the gender pay gap has significant demographic, social, legal and economic consequences. reducing gender inequalities by eliminating the gender pay gap will bring benefits not only to women but also to society as a whole. the elimination of the gender pay gap should not be seen as a cost but as an investment.
in writing. - equal pay for men and women seems to me to be a matter of basic justice, which enshrines the principle of equal pay for equal work. that is why i am concerned that the gender pay gap is widening in europe, and i support the european parliament's call for the commission to support member states in reducing the gender pay gap with the aim of eliminating the gender pay gap by 2020. in addition to equity requiring equal rights for men and women, the law must also take account of gender-specific needs, which in the case of women is evident in areas such as maternity protection and reconciliation between work and family life. that is why, in addition to the just demand for equal pay, it is essential that women are not systematically penalized in the workplace for being women and mothers.
in writing. −despite the considerable body of legislation in place for almost 40 years, the measures adopted and the resources deployed (the eu-wide disparity was 17.7% in 2006, 17.6% in 2007, 17.4% in 2008, 16.9% in 2009 and 16.4% in 2010), the gender pay gap remains a persistent problem, currently standing at 16.2% across the eu. the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work and work of equal social value is crucial to achieving gender equality. reducing gender inequalities by eliminating the gender pay gap will bring benefits not only to women but also to society as a whole. the elimination of the gender pay gap is not a cost but an investment. directive 2006/54/ec is not sufficiently effective in addressing the gender pay gap and in achieving the objective of gender equality in employment and occupation. the commission should therefore review directive 2006/54/ec without delay and support member states in promoting good practices and implementing policies to reduce the gender pay gap.
in writing. - i consider that the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work and work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament on the implementation of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value, which calls for the promotion of good practice and the implementation of policies to reduce the pay gap between men and women.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) states in article 8 that in all its actions, the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women, while underlining in article 157 that member states shall ensure the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value. however, what this motion for a resolution shows us is that the gender pay gap is still a reality in the different member states. according to the latest data, this disparity at union level has been decreasing, but at a relatively slow pace. in 2006, the wage gap in the union was 17,7%, in 2007, 17,6%, in 2008, 17,4% in 2009, 16,9% in 2010 and 16,4% in 2011. we need to look at this problem in a different way. in 40 years of european legislation the problem still persists. the member states must look at this as a structural problem which has a negative impact on the growth of their own economies.
in writing. - it is necessary for member states to have adequate legislation but also to have the means to enforce it. today, employers circumvent the law by feminizing occupational categories, setting lower wage values in these, although they are categories that can be equated to those predominantly performed by men. only a close inspection can detect these cases. recommendations can be important. however, the desire to put an end to such discrimination is fruitless if the eu's labour policies are not changed. when the european commission, in the framework of the troika, insists on flexibility, on the individualisation of employment contracts, on the weakening of collective bargaining, it is not protecting women and promoting wage discrimination. despite this contradiction and the resolution not to reject these policies, we agree with the principles set out.
in writing. − cyberspace and cybersecurity should be one of the strategic pillars of the security and defence policies of the european union and all member states. e-commerce and online services are a vital force of the internet and are essential to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to develop a strategic communication policy on cybersecurity in the union, cyber crisis situations, strategy review, public-private collaboration and public warnings and recommendations. the european commission and other actors should therefore develop cybersecurity and cyber resilience policies that provide for economic incentives to promote high levels of cybersecurity and cyber resilience. member states should adopt national cybersecurity strategies as soon as possible. the union's cybersecurity policy should ensure a secure and reliable digital environment that is designed to ensure the protection and preservation of fundamental freedoms and the respect for fundamental rights. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − cyberspace and cybersecurity should be one of the strategic pillars of the security and defence policies of the eu and all member states. it is essential to ensure that cyberspace remains open to the free flow of ideas and information and to freedom of expression. i welcome the european union's cybersecurity strategy and the proposal for a directive on measures to ensure a high level of network and information security across the union. it is necessary to develop a strategic communication policy on cybersecurity in the eu, cyber crisis situations, strategy review, public-private collaboration and public warnings and recommendations.
in writing. − dependence on information and communication technologies and on cyberspace is a reality at virtually all levels of society. an attack on some of these means risks having practical consequences in terms of the security and defense of populations and the infrastructures that serve them, compromising communications and transport, rendering health systems unable to act, triggering the activation of war arsenals, exposing and misappropriating defence and trade secrets, allowing the diversion of funds, among many other negative possibilities. in addition, threats and attacks are becoming increasingly sophisticated, which is why our ability to prevent, detect and respond must also be highly sophisticated. that is the way we must go to protect cyberspace.
in writing. − cyberspace and cybersecurity should be one of the strategic pillars of the security and defence policies of the eu and all member states. it is essential to ensure that cyberspace remains open to the free flow of ideas and information and to freedom of expression. there should therefore be a joint eu cybersecurity strategy. this proposal for a directive lays down measures to ensure a high level of network and information security throughout the union. in the face of the growing importance of the internet and cyberspace for political, economic and social transactions, not only in the union but also in relation to other actors worldwide, we need to maintain a very effective cybersecurity policy to safeguard it, as network security will contribute to the improvement of the internal market and to economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution, which, among other things, recalls the need for a high level of network and information security. network and information security is not only necessary for the maintenance of services that are essential for the proper functioning of society and the economy, but also for safeguarding the physical integrity of citizens by enhancing the efficiency, effectiveness and secure operation of critical infrastructures.
in writing. − cybersecurity needs to be addressed jointly by the union and the member states, and by the union and global actors, as the challenges it presents have no terrestrial limitations. it is therefore important that the union cybersecurity strategy is taken into account in the member states, so that they themselves adopt national policies. organized crime and terrorism are now developed partly via the internet. certain movements for political, social and cultural change are also born in this space. in parallel, the strength of the union's internal market and europe 2020 is based on e-commerce and online services. we have to align the potentials and the dangers of cyberspace. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that we need to create capable national legal systems, in coordination with other global actors, and to educate individuals about the challenges that cybersecurity poses to us.
in writing. - this is an unacceptable resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu's maritime borders. we also oppose the linking of cybersecurity to the eu's external defence policy. the council also called for greater cooperation with nato and considered it important to establish closer cooperation with the united states on the exchange of information. it is incredible, especially at a time when the information and surveillance systems set up by the us on eu institutions and citizens are becoming increasingly well known. it only demonstrates, once again, the eu's complete submission to us imperialism and a total disregard for individual and collective freedoms and guarantees.
in writing. − information and communication technologies are at the heart of the digital society and currently account for around 20% of the european union's annual productivity growth and 4.5% of its gdp and generate 25% of private investment in r & d. they can make an extraordinary contribution to growth and jobs. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the union's policy on digital services. to this end, alongside the need to remove barriers to the digital single market of the european union, it is a top priority for the eu to invest in optimized and fast broadband internet infrastructure in order to fully exploit the potential of the digital economy. the european commission should make proposals to carry out a fundamental review of the regulatory framework for electronic communications. the crucial measures announced in the digital agenda for europe, with particular emphasis on resilient and reliable infrastructure and services and the data protection regime, should also be implemented. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the main objective of the digital agenda for europe should be to reduce inequalities between member states, in particular in terms of access to fast and ultrafast, fixed and mobile broadband infrastructure. unlocking the potential of the digital economy in the eu would have a high multiplier effect on the economy, leading to higher growth and more jobs. unlocking this potential is one of the most important reforms for growth and competitiveness to help the eu emerge from the current crisis.
in writing. − the existence of a competitive digital single market is becoming more important and more inescapable in our society. technological developments, especially in terms of the availability of information, content and knowledge on the net, have been extremely rapid and in just over a decade have drastically changed the digital landscape with the massification of the internet and mobile communications. it is therefore important to look to the future and to think about how these new facilities of the digital age can be put at the service of citizens and businesses for europe's growth and competitiveness.
in writing. − the main objective of the digital agenda for europe, adopted in 2010, should be to reduce inequalities between member states, in particular with regard to access to fast and ultra-fast, fixed and mobile broadband infrastructure. information and communication technologies (icts) are at the heart of the digital society, currently accounting for around 20% of the eu's annual productivity growth and 4.5% of its gdp, and generating 25% of private investment in r&d in the eu, and are susceptible to being affected. it is estimated that by 2020, 50 billion devices will be connected to the internet and that by the end of 2017, data traffic will increase 15-fold. the digital agenda and the achievement of a digital single market should therefore be at the heart of the eu's efforts to create growth and emerge from the crisis. in fact, the digital economy is growing at seven times the rate of the rest of the economy and the completion of the digital single market could provide an annual stimulus of eur 110 billion;
in writing. − a new digital agenda for europe is essential if there is to be a digital revolution from which all european citizens benefit. however, this requires the involvement of all citizens in the process, so that they become actors in the new digital society. but for this to be possible, a major investment effort is needed to close the digital divide that currently exists in the eu. we must not forget that informed and enlightened citizens contribute to increasing europe's potential. the digital agenda and the achievement of a digital single market must therefore be at the heart of the eu's efforts to create growth and emerge from the crisis, remove the barriers to the digital single market and thereby create jobs and growth in the eu. we must not forget that the digital economy is growing at seven times the rate of the rest of the economy and that the completion of the digital single market could represent a stimulus worth €110 billion a year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the digital agenda for growth, mobility and jobs, which stresses that, alongside the need to remove barriers to the eu's digital single market, it is an absolute priority for the eu to invest in optimized and very fast broadband internet infrastructures in order to fully exploit the potential of the digital economy.
in writing. − the digital agenda for europe aims to create a digital single market, based on fast and ultra-fast internet and interoperability, where all european citizens have the same access. the document calls for the abolition of roaming in europe, since it is consumers, individuals and businesses, who bear the excessive costs. the completion of the internal market presupposes the completion of a digital market. at the same time, it remains important to bring more services online in the civil service. however, we must not forget that part of society is still at a low level of education in broadband issues. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, stressing that the importance of the digital market has not been taken into account in the cef, particularly by the member states.
in writing. - the digital agenda is based on the digital single market without barriers and aims, which we disagree with, to combat what they call a fragmented market in national markets with artificial borders and which cannot be considered a single economic market in which competition is encouraged. this is the way not only to complete privatisation of the telecommunications sector or what remains of it, but also to create a communications market at eu level. in addition to the exacerbation of european markets to the detriment of national public services, the false promises of lower consumer prices, which have already been exposed, in the most diverse sectors of activity, are here reflected. we also believe that a digital agenda at the cutting edge rejects any commercialisation of knowledge, education and research. we therefore do not accept that the positive objectives of the report - such as the fair recognition of the lack of funding in the 2014-2020 mff - are disfigured by the ambiguities and variations of the european single market.
in writing. the international community must define a political solution for syria that will put an end to the violence, prevent the use of chemical weapons in the future and promote a democratic transition. the current humanitarian crisis in syria and its repercussions on neighbouring countries are deeply serious and worrying. the eu and its member states should step up their assistance to syrian refugees and provide humanitarian aid and assistance, as well as ensure the safety of all medical and humanitarian workers.
in writing. - the trivialization of violence threatens to dull our sensitivity. i believe that we must combat this tendency and respond firmly to situations such as the one in syria, where thousands of people are killed, injured, tortured and persecuted. the european union can play a leading role in this process. the political-military situation in that country is highly worrying. i hope that the syrian regime will identify in detail its chemical weapons arsenal and effectively place it under international control, thereby preventing its use on defenseless populations, and severely punish those responsible for its previous use on 21 august 2013. if this is not the case, and if the assad regime continues to prove untrustworthy, i think that all possible ways must be considered to prevent the spread of violence and repression against defenseless populations.
in writing. − according to the un, since the beginning of the violent crackdown on peaceful protesters in syria in march 2011, more than 100 000 people, most of them civilians, have been killed and according to the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (ocha), there are 4.25 million internally displaced people and more than 2 million syrian refugees, mainly in turkey, jordan, lebanon and iraq. on 21 august 2013, a large-scale chemical weapons attack was carried out on the outskirts of damascus, killing hundreds of people, including numerous women and children. this attack constituted a flagrant violation of international law, a war crime and a crime against humanity. i condemn these attacks and believe that the situation in syria requires a common and coherent approach by the eu member states. the eu and its member states should continue to discuss the situation in syria in the foreign affairs council and consider possible measures that the eu could take to support the democratic forces of the syrian opposition, promote dialogue and a common approach with other members of the international community and develop humanitarian assistance to the people in syria and neighbouring countries.
in writing. - what is happening in syria is in every way unspeakable. we must condemn in the strongest possible terms the massacre of civilians with chemical weapons on 21 august 2013, which, according to western intelligence services, has claimed the lives of at least 1400 people, including 400 children. since the use of chemical weapons was most likely the responsibility of the syrian government, the international community cannot stand idly by. the proven use of chemical weapons, especially against civilians, is a flagrant violation of international law. we must therefore do everything possible to hold the perpetrators of this barbarity to account.
in writing. − the european parliament strongly condemned today the massacre of civilians with chemical weapons on 21 august 2013, which according to western intelligence services has claimed the lives of at least 1400 people, including 400 children, while noting that different sources seem to indicate that the syrian regime is responsible for this attack. drawing attention to the fact that in the face of this shocking use of chemical weapons, the international community cannot remain passive and recalling that the proven use of chemical weapons, especially against civilians, constitutes a flagrant violation of international law, a war crime and a crime against humanity, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for a clear, firm, selective and united response, without excluding any deterrent measures, to demonstrate that these crimes are unacceptable.
in writing. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. the text uncritically repeats the white house and french rhetoric on the chemical weapons attack, parading lies and blatant cover-ups. it never mentions the attack in may and the evidence of the use of chemical weapons by the so-called rebels, and that it was the syrian government that had already requested the presence of international observers, allowing them to enter the areas under its control. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. faced with the veto of china and russia (on whom unacceptable pressure is exerted) in the un security council, it points the way to the general assembly, a body that the great powers and the majority of the ep have ignored. the text, which appears to support a diplomatic solution, contains all the elements which could undermine it and open the way to military aggression.
in writing. − in july 2011 i wrote that what has already been called the arab spring threatens to become yet another false start towards the democratization of those countries. i believe that the west cannot ignore this problem and the violations of human rights and civil liberties that are taking place. in the face of what is happening in egypt, i believe my words are still relevant. unfortunately, the main political actors in egypt have not been able to put the country on the path to peace and stability, and there has been an unfortunate radicalization of positions that has culminated in the military coup. while we cannot help criticizing the forced deposition of democratically elected leaders, it is also elementary justice to recognize that the political choices made by the muslim brotherhood alienated much of its popular support and led to extreme positions. the european union has a role to play in showing clear solidarity with the egyptian people and in making unreserved demands of those in charge. i believe another way will be possible. the egyptians deserve it.
in writing. − egypt is the largest arab country, a key player in the southern mediterranean region, an important trading partner of the eu and one of the main beneficiaries of eu aid. i express my solidarity with the egyptian people and my condolences to the families of the victims of the recent clashes and acts of violence. egyptian authorities were to set up a judicial commission to independently investigate all the killings, as promised by the egyptian presidency on july 8, 2013. all acts of terrorism, incitement, violence and hate speech are to be condemned. all political actors and security forces should exercise the utmost restraint and refrain from provocations in order to avoid further escalation of violence. i support the ongoing constitutional reform process and stress that this process must lay the foundations for a new, truly democratic egypt, which guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms, including religious freedom, to all egyptian citizens - men and women - which promotes tolerance and coexistence between different religions and which guarantees the protection of minorities, as well as freedom of association, assembly and the press.
in writing. − egypt is the largest arab country, a key country in the southern mediterranean region, an important trading partner of the eu and one of the main beneficiaries of eu aid. political, economic and social developments in this country have important consequences for the whole region. we must condemn the clashes and the killings that have taken place. it is necessary to appeal to all those involved to realize that it is imperative to put an end to the fighting so that egypt can return to normalcy and its people are no longer affected.
in writing. the european parliament expressed its strong solidarity with the egyptian people and its sincere condolences to the families of the victims of the recent clashes and acts of violence. in this joint document, the egyptian authorities are urged to set up a judicial commission to independently investigate all the killings, as promised by the egyptian presidency on 8 july 2013. parliament also condemned the disproportionate use of force by the egyptian security forces and the tragic loss of life during the dispersal of the protesters in the rabaa and nahda squares, and called on the egyptian government to ensure that the security forces set up adequate internal assessment processes to establish accountability in the event of excessive use of force and to bring those responsible to justice. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on egypt contains elements which we fully support, including the condemnation of the use of force by the egyptian security forces, the tragic loss of human life, the repression and persecution of demonstrators and political leaders. the text not only fails, but in some respects accentuates, an element that is central to the success of a desired democratic process: the end of foreign interference in egypt. there is not a single word in this motion for a resolution condemning the foreign interference, particularly by the united states, in the last two years. the text of this proposal also points to various lines of external interference in the further development of the internal situation, a determining factor not only for instability in egypt but in the region. by abstaining in this resolution, despite what we have already said, we want to make it very clear that we are in deep solidarity with the egyptian people and their struggle for social, economic, political, democratic and sovereign rights and that there are not just two paths for the egyptian people: a return to a military dictatorship or an undemocratic religious regime. there are other ways to the political process, and it is up to the people and them alone to decide them, free from outside interference and pressure.
in writing. - i come from a country whose history is inextricably linked to the sea and to expansion by sea, and i have no difficulty in understanding the strategic importance of this issue for our common security and defence. if the european union and its member states do not take proper account of the threats and challenges that may arise from the sea, they will have difficulty in ensuring the defence and protection of their populations and the flow of trade through this route. only an integrated approach to all activities relating to and related to the sea, with the consequent coordination with nato, will enable the union to adequately guard against threats, whether conventional or unconventional, to enable the free movement of persons and goods and to respond adequately to the important challenges facing it in these areas.
in writing. - we voted against this report because it promotes the use of military means to ensure the use of the oceans and marine resources and european dominance on the seas; it advocates civil-military cooperation through the merging of military and security instruments and the militarisation of the seas and international waters. we are, on the contrary, in favour of the demilitarisation of the seas and a non-nuclear mediterranean, the conduct of all activities within the strict framework of the un charter and international law and a civilian eu approach with strict separation between the eu and nato.
in writing. − the eu member states have more than 90 000 km of coastline, washed by two oceans and four seas, in addition to overseas territories and national security installations on other oceans. eu member states are responsible for the control, security and protection of european coastal and territorial waters, exclusive economic zones (eezs), the continental shelf, maritime infrastructure and marine resources we must all contribute to an effective common security and defence policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the maritime dimension of the eu's common security and defence policy, as i agree with its general content, in particular with the vital interest of ensuring a safe, open and clean maritime environment, which allows for free trade and the free movement of persons, as well as a peaceful, legal, fair and sustainable use of the oceans' riches.
in writing. - we voted against this report because it promotes the use of military means to ensure the use of the oceans and marine resources and european dominance on the seas; it advocates civil-military cooperation through the merging of military and security instruments and the militarisation of the seas and international waters. we are, on the contrary, in favour of the demilitarisation of the seas and a non-nuclear mediterranean, the conduct of all activities within the strict framework of the un charter and international law and a civilian eu approach with strict separation between the eu and nato.
in writing. − this report highlights the role of the maritime dimension of the common security and defence policy. seas and oceans play a strategic role for the union's economy and security. in addition, maritime space is subject to increasingly intense geostrategic competition. the environmental dimension of the seas and oceans also plays a major role in ensuring the free movement and safety of goods and people. the multilateral aspect of the maritime dimension should not be neglected, nor should the application of the principles of the united nations charter and international standards in this field. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the report proposes to deepen the eu's federalist and militarist path and its articulation and/or subordination to nato. the proposals contained in it follow on from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and point to ways of further removing fundamental parts of the sovereignty of states (as we have always denounced). it is also an arrogant and arrogant proposal in the face of non-eu countries defending their right to prerogatives, including the use of force, to impose the defence of their interests. the defence and the intention to speed up the establishment of an eu coast guard is contrary to the national interests of countries such as portugal, its sovereignty and its right to decide sovereignly on its maritime space and jurisdiction, and is also aimed at giving muscle to the so-called fortress europe and the way of repressing immigration. we cannot but stress that this report comes at a time of deep crisis in the eu and that it points to the neocolonial and militarist approach to its maritime dimension as a solution in this area, given the strategic area of access to increasingly scarce raw materials and energy resources on which the eu is dependent.
in writing. − another step has been taken towards improving the eu's capacity to plan and conduct military operations. i welcome this report and have voted in favour.
in writing. − on 22 october 2009, the european parliament adopted a resolution challenging the us to reach agreement with the eu on a strengthened transatlantic partnership to address common global challenges. the situation in the multipolar world increasingly reinforces the need for the west to articulate its positions and coordinate its responses to the many challenges posed by the rest of the world. despite the natural leadership of the united states, the european union must not remain aloof from global affairs or give up its quest for hard power. it must rather share more fairly with the united states the effort which is being supported by that country today, particularly in military terms. without a greater effective military capability of the european union, europe will remain unable to assume the important geostrategic role that should be itss. i hope that this situation can be reversed.
in writing. − the eu and all member states act consistently as guarantors of security, not only in europe but also in the rest of the world and especially in their own neighbourhood. the eu's capacity to respond to international crises in a timely and efficient manner is manifestly insufficient, despite its longstanding commitment to preserving peace, safeguarding human rights, preventing conflict and strengthening international security, in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter. a comprehensive approach to crisis management, integrating a wide range of diplomatic, economic, development and, as a last resort, military means, is advocated - as expressed in particular in its resolutions on the annual reports on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and on the common security and defence policy (csdp).
in writing. we voted against this report, which reiterates our serious concern at the permanent and uncoordinated cuts in national defence budgets - when we are advocating precisely these cuts - which seeks to deploy armed forces adapted to multinational operations, to speed up the process of international deployment of tactical groups and to strengthen the european defence industry, deploring the fact that the eu does not yet have a military capability - a path we reject - which argues that certain costs of preparing and keeping tactical groups on permanent alert can be charged to the eu budget, when we are, on the contrary, advocating the reallocation of military expenditure to civilian purposes.
in writing. − the eu's limited capacity to deal with international crises in a timely and efficient manner has been evident, despite our longstanding commitment to preserving peace, safeguarding human rights, preventing conflict and strengthening international security, in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter. it is in everyone's interest that the eu and its member states act consistently as guarantors of security, not only in europe but also in the rest of the world and especially in their own neighbourhood. for example, recent military operations in libya and mali have demonstrated the lack of progress towards a genuine common security and defence policy and have underlined the need for greater coordination and cooperation at european level if the eu is to be taken seriously as an effective and credible global actor. we must all make an effort to ensure that the eu has a more coherent and effective common foreign and security policy (cfsp), or we will lose our prominence in its commitment to preserving peace and safeguarding human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on eu military structures: current situation and future prospects, which warns of the need to avoid potential duplication with nato, for example in the field of cybersecurity training.
in writing. we voted against this report, which reiterates our serious concern at the permanent and uncoordinated cuts in national defence budgets - when we are advocating precisely these cuts - which seeks to deploy armed forces adapted to multinational operations, to speed up the process of international deployment of tactical groups and to strengthen the european defence industry, deploring the fact that the eu does not yet have a military capability - a path we reject - which argues that certain costs of preparing and keeping tactical groups on permanent alert can be charged to the eu budget, when we are, on the contrary, advocating the reallocation of military expenditure to civilian purposes. we voted against because we are in favour of disarmament, a civilian eu and civilian conflict resolution and a clear separation of the eu from nato and civilian and military capabilities.
in writing. − this report provides a detailed assessment of the european union's military capabilities and announces proposals for updating the institutional framework of its military structures and for enhancing the operational effectiveness of the union's military operations. the main proposals in the document include the creation of a full-fledged union operational staff within the european external action service and the joint financing of rapid reaction operations carried out by union battle groups. i voted in favour of this document because i consider the perspectives embedded in it to be important.
in writing. the central element of this report is the defence of the deepening of the process of militarization of the eu as the european pillar of nato, with a view to greater articulation and complementarity of its powers in the division of labour in the world. the aim is to gain advantage in the processes of strategic domination of the increasingly scarce raw materials and energy resources on which the major powers and eu monopolies are dependent, as well as domination over trade routes and markets. the comprehensive approach advocated here also aims at preparing a set of military and civilian means and their greater interoperability, ensuring a strengthened eu intervention capacity, freer from the impediments of national sovereignty, the delays of a greater or lesser democratic decision-making process in each country. it aims to impose political powers and establish cooperative military alliances with its interests where the interests of the eu's major powers' monopolies are at stake. it aims at the destruction of national sovereignty by promoting processes of interference and contempt for international law and the un charter. the alternative to the militarisation of the eu exists: the effective implementation of a system of security and cooperation in europe, based on the principles of the helsinki charter.
in writing. - i welcome this report because it promotes the eastern partnership civil society forum national platform, which is an important and reliable partner and a single channel of communication between the belarusian population and the eu.
in writing. − the citizens of belarus continue to demand and deserve concrete changes that improve their living conditions, effectively promote democracy and allow them full political self-determination. it is necessary for democratic countries to understand the extent to which the belarusian regime is incapable of promoting the democratization of the country, to oppose the repressive means and methods head-on, to demand the release of political prisoners and to strengthen sanctions not only against the belarusian state but also against its main actors, individually considered. without closing the door to constructive but demanding dialogue with minsk, the european union must not ignore the legitimate aspirations of the belarusians and help them to become reality.
in writing. - since 1994, free and fair elections have not been held in belarus in accordance with electoral legislation and in line with international standards. the principle of separation of powers was virtually abolished by the 1996 constitutional reform and since then the political opposition has not been represented in the political institutions and has not been able to participate in the construction and implementation of the country's political direction. in 1997, the european council suspended ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreement and froze the interim trade agreement, so that eu/belarus relations continue to be governed by the 1989 trade and cooperation agreement. i therefore agree to recommend to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission (hr/vp), the eeas, the council, the commission and the member states to urge the belarusian authorities to respect human rights and to work towards a democratic transition in order to end the country's self-imposed isolation from the rest of europe, and to reiterate that the immediate and unconditional restitution and rehabilitation of the political and civil rights of the remaining political prisoners is an indispensable precondition for the development of bilateral relations, which could lead to the gradual lifting of restrictive measures by the eu and the unblocking of eu-belarus relations.
in writing. - the situation in belarus should concern all those who believe in democracy and the rule of law. the citizens of this country live under a regime that does not respect their rights. the immediate and unconditional restitution and rehabilitation of the political and civic rights of the remaining political prisoners is an indispensable precondition for the development of bilateral relations, which could lead to the gradual lifting of restrictive measures by the eu and the unblocking of eu-belarus relations. the eu must support all efforts to democratize this regime, which means improving the lives of its people. the repressive measures still in force in belarus must be brought to an end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for crossborder cooperation by promoting cooperation between eu and belarusian towns and cities, drawing on the examples of good practice in some eu countries, notably poland, lithuania and latvia.
in writing. − this document sets out a set of recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the future of the union's neighbourhood relations with belarus, with particular regard to the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013. the document calls on the belarusian authorities to ensure respect for fundamental rights and to carry out democratic reforms. it also describes the difficult relations between the union and belarus, taking into account the 2010 and 2012 elections, the crackdown on the opposition, civil society and the media, and the detention of persons as political prisoners. i voted in favour of the document because i thought it necessary to make a recommendation for the future of relations between the union and belarus.
in writing. - we are faced with an example of the political arrogance and cynicism of the majority of the ep, which disrespects the national sovereignty of a state, promotes interference in its internal affairs and destabilises it. this is a real manual of interventionism against belarus, baselessly invoking democratic values and the defence of civil society, with a view to bringing about a change of political power and ensuring the dismantling of the productive and economic apparatus and of the sovereignty (economic and political) of belarus itself. this is a recurring position of the ep majority towards belarus as we have also seen towards other states that were formerly part of the ussr which, waving democratic values devoid of substance and with the promise of investments, hide neo-colonialist objectives that call into question the foundations of their sovereignty (economic and political) and social welfare. this is an example which is absolutely unacceptable in relations with a sovereign and independent state and which must therefore be rejected, regardless of any critical views and assessments we may have of various aspects of internal belarusian life.
in writing. − knowing that russia continues to regard the eastern partnership region as its exclusive sphere of influence, opposing the prospect of closer alignment of these countries with the eu through association agreements, an approach which runs counter to the principles of national sovereignty, mutual trust and good neighbourly relations. on this basis, i have supported this report.
in writing. - as i have already had the opportunity to say, russia is facing a major strategic challenge. despite the evidence that seems to contradict it, i reiterate my conviction that in the medium and long term russia will recognise that its interests are best served by choosing to move closer to the west. the pressure it is currently exerting on the western partnership countries makes this rapprochement difficult and reveals a conflicting view of international relations. i hope that the western partnership countries will allow their relationship with the european union to become closer and that the union will be able to provide them with the greatest possible solidarity.
in writing. − the ongoing commitment within the eastern partnership has provided partner countries with a comprehensive agenda for reforms for the benefit of their citizens, while the association agreements and the comprehensive and deep free trade agreements concluded between the eu and the eastern partnership countries represent a commitment by parties willing and able to strengthen and successfully pursue their cooperation in many areas. the principles of equality and respect for the rights inherent in sovereignty, non-intervention in internal affairs, good cooperation between states and the good faith discharge of obligations under international law, as decided in the framework of the helsinki agreements, are foundations governing international relations between independent states and as such should not be violated in any way. it is therefore unacceptable and regrettable that, as the eastern partnership summit in vilnius approaches, the various types of pressure on the eastern partnership countries, which are in the final stages of negotiating, signing or initial ing their association agreements, should increase. the russian federation should refrain from exerting further pressure on the eastern partners and fully respect their sovereign right to pursue their own political choices.
in writing. − i maintain that the principles of equality and respect for the rights inherent in sovereignty, non-intervention in internal affairs, good cooperation between states and the good faith fulfillment of obligations under international law, as decided in the framework of the helsinki agreements, are foundations governing international relations between independent states and as such should in no way be violated. i can therefore only condemn the pressure exerted by russia on a number of eastern partnership countries to force them not to cooperate with the eu at the next eastern partnership summit in vilnius. such behaviour is, on all levels, reprehensible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which recalls that european integration requires the existence of a majority of the people in the countries awaiting the entry into force or the signing of association agreements.
in writing. − considering that the ongoing commitment in the eastern partnership has provided partner countries with a comprehensive agenda for reforms for the benefit of their citizens and that the agreements concluded between the eu and the eastern partnership countries represent a commitment by the parties willing and able to strengthen and successfully pursue their cooperation in many areas, the european parliament adopted a document regretting that, as the eastern partnership summit in vilnius approaches, different types of pressure are increasing on the eastern partnership countries that are in the final stage of negotiating, signing or entering their association agreements. the european union is also committed to the development of the russian economy, and the eu is committed to the development of the russian economy.
in writing. − the internal security strategy sets out the principles and guidelines that will enable europe to respond to current challenges and emerging threats and to strengthen security. in terms of the fight against organised crime, several directives are being negotiated between parliament and the council. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i regret that the implementation of the internal security strategy has hardly taken into account the consequences of the integration of the charter of fundamental rights and that the ep has not been formally involved, despite its role as co-legislator, in order to ensure that policies in this area respect fundamental rights, the principle of solidarity and mutual assistance, the principle of proportionality and democratic legitimacy. given that the current strategy is in its final stages, i hope that before the adoption of the new strategy for 2015-2019, an in-depth and independent evaluation of the current strategy and the current instruments in place will be carried out to assess their impact and effectiveness, as well as the need to develop new policies or create new instruments in this area.
in writing. − an adequate and effective internal security strategy in the eu is fundamental to ensuring the area of security and freedom that we want the union to be. it is therefore necessary to set clear priorities in the field of internal security, paying particular attention to highly organised and sophisticated forms of crime, trafficking in human beings, especially children, threats to the security of critical infrastructure and terrorism.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty, in continuity with the maastricht treaty, aims to create an area of freedom, security and justice and lays the foundations for the development of an eu security policy and the development of a shared security agenda for the eu and its member states, which must be based on the rule of law and respect for democratic values, public freedoms and fundamental rights, as well as solidarity, and subject to democratic control at european and national level. security policies should not be exclusively focused on repression but should instead integrate a preventive component, which is particularly important at a time when growing economic and social inequalities are calling into question the social pact, including the effective exercise of fundamental rights and civil liberties. parliament must be a fully-fledged institutional actor in security policy matters and is therefore entitled to participate actively in defining the features and priorities of the internal security strategy (iss) and in the evaluation of those instruments, in particular through regular monitoring exercises of the implementation of the iss carried out jointly by the european parliament, national parliaments and the council, in accordance with articles 70 and 71 tfeu.
in writing. − we did not vote in favour of this report because we disagree with the general line of the eu's internal security, although we acknowledge several very positive points in this resolution, namely that we are at a time when growing economic and social inequalities are calling into question the social pact, including the effective exercise of fundamental rights and civil liberties, that special attention should be paid to combating violence against children and women, that we regret that the fight against money laundering, environmental or corporate crime and corruption has not been made an eu priority, that we call for a thorough investigation of the violent far-right movements in the union, that we recall the need to respect civil liberties and due process, that we insist that migration and the crossing of external national borders by a large number of third countries should be considered a threat to public order or security, not just internal ones.
in writing. − the internal security strategy (iss) for 2010-2014 identified five priority areas where the eu can add value, namely in combating and preventing serious and organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime, strengthening external border management and building resilience to natural and man-made disasters. in any case, i believe that freedom, security and justice are objectives which must be pursued in parallel, and that the implementation of the eu charter must therefore form the basis of any sound internal security strategy. if we are to succeed in achieving freedom and justice, security must be guaranteed at all times in accordance with the principles enshrined in the treaty, the rule of law and the union's obligations in respect of fundamental rights. it is the pursuit of these objectives that will make the european union's internal security strategy a success.
in writing. − this resolution stresses that europol's effectiveness in assessing and analysing terrorist threats and other criminal activities depends largely on the willingness of the member states' services to provide it with information, and therefore proposes to improve the provision of information to europol by the member states by strengthening the duty of member states to cooperate with europol.
in writing. - we did not vote in favour of this report because we disagree with the general line of the eu's internal security, although we acknowledge several very positive points in this resolution, namely that we are at a time when growing economic and social inequalities are calling into question the social pact, including the effective exercise of fundamental rights and civil liberties, that special attention should be paid to combating violence against children and women, that we regret that the fight against money laundering, environmental or corporate crime and corruption has not been made an eu priority, that we urge a thorough investigation of the violent far-right movements in the union, that we recall the need to respect civil liberties and due process, that we insist that migration and the crossing of external national borders by a large number of third countries should be considered a threat not only to public order but also to internal security.
in writing. - an area of security, freedom and justice is desired to protect not only european citizens but all individuals living in the union. preventive measures are therefore necessary. the union's security strategy for 2010-14 identifies five priorities, which i will mention below: breaking down organised crime networks, preventing terrorist attacks, combating cybercrime, ensuring border controls, and increasing prevention related to natural disasters. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. at the same time, it should present preventive measures for the five priorities mentioned above. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - workers and people are rapidly impoverishing, particularly in countries like portugal, victims of eu policies and national governments that strip them of social, labour, economic and democratic rights, and concentrate plundered resources in monopolies. it is this policy framework that is extremely degrading the social fabric, which is increasing crime, particularly violent and serious crime. the guidelines set out in this resolution go further in the path of unprecedented political control of the judicial systems, the police apparatus and criminal investigation, while their competence is gradually being removed from the national sovereignty of the eu countries. citizens are increasingly exposed to the espionage of information technology monopolies and of intelligence agencies, including foreign ones, as the nsa case has shown. those responsible go unharmed, no effective ways are pointed out to end it. the criminalisation and repression of immigrants is also increasing. special police measures without prior judicial control (searches, searches, closure of establishments and facilities, cutting off communications) are increasingly affecting citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. it's a resolution of more of the same. we voted against it.
in writing. − the promotion of health and safety at work is a priority for the european union. since 2002, the successive european strategies for health and safety at work have established a common framework for action and adopted community legislation that has improved working conditions in the member states and reduced the number of accidents at work. in the context of the crisis we are going through, it is important to stress that all the investment made in this area is very rewarding and favours the quality of work, productivity and competitiveness. the european strategy for health and safety at work expired at the end of 2012 and to date the european commission has not indicated whether it will adopt a new strategy. attention should be paid to new risks arising from technological developments and to effectively addressing problems related to the extension of working life. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, calling for the european commission to present a new european strategy on health and safety at work as soon as possible.
in writing. - i support this resolution and call on the european commission to present a new european strategy on health and safety at work.
in writing. - i naturally agree with the need to protect workers from all risks to their safety and health at work. there is already a broad consensus in europe and other developed countries and an adequate legislative framework. fortunately, we are a long way from the blackboard that charles dickens painted in the 19th century as to the conditions of the workers.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy aims to achieve by 2020 an employment rate of 75% of the population aged 20-64. technological progress, economic developments and the economic and social crisis have a continuing impact on the working environment and require rapid responses in order to ensure a high level of health and safety at work. the economic crisis should not be used as a pretext to weaken occupational risk prevention policies; the community strategy 2007-2012 for health and safety at work expired in 2012 and was followed by any policy strategy paper at eu level. the community strategy 2007-2012 for health and safety at work has had a positive impact across the eu, but some challenges in the field of health and safety at work still need to be addressed in the coming years. i therefore call on the commission to present a new european strategy on health and safety at work for the period up to 2020 this year.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of a mid-term evaluation of the european strategy for health and safety at work. in addition to the right to health being a fundamental right, all workers benefit from the legal guarantee of working conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity, and are also alert to the positive impact of good management of health and safety at work at both national and european level and at company level. however, in the face of new challenges, it is urgent that a new strategy for health and safety at work be drawn up. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this resolution reiterates the european parliament's call for the commission to present a new european strategy on health and safety at work for the period up to 2020, and calls on the commission to present such a proposal before the end of 2013. this is a position which i share, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. the resolution calls on the commission to present a strategy for health and safety at work later this year, as the old strategy expired last year. the positive effects on the working conditions of europeans should not therefore be neglected. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - this resolution falls far short of the real problems that need to be solved in the field of health and safety at work. parliament simply continues to insist that the commission urgently present a community strategy for 2014-2020. we're not at odds. however, we believe that we cannot pass up this opportunity to make the appropriate criticisms of the commission for the community strategy 2007-2012. a strategy that considered occupational health and safety primarily as a variable of the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises. it is an unacceptable designation, which does not take into account the value of work and workers. we believe that a future community strategy on health and safety at work should promote and improve the quality of life of workers. prevention, proper supervision, public investment, the fight against job insecurity, which is always associated with accidents and the absence of health and hygiene conditions at work, and the criminalisation of accidents at work, are urgent steps. our group has tabled amendments to that effect. unfortunately, they were not approved by a majority of members.
in writing. − the right to live and work in another member state is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union and is a basic element of european citizenship enshrined in the treaties. companies are increasingly operating at european level, while workers' representation is organised mainly at national level. this asymmetry has a negative impact on the representation of workers' interests, particularly in the event of disputes. in the face of the increasing transnationalization of industrial relations in europe, there is an increasing need for cross-border solutions to labour problems. each member state of the union has its own system of industrial relations which must be respected without any need for standardization. i therefore voted in favour of this report which advocates the usefulness of an optional european regulatory framework for transnational european business agreements in order to provide greater transparency and legal certainty.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this measure, given the importance of company strategies of focusing on the efficiency of the business fabric and dialogue with workers.
in writing. - it is undeniable that europe is living in a reality diametrically opposed to the europe that was the treaty of rome. we live today in a europe without borders. with this disappearance, at first seemingly only physical, a real social and economic revolution began, and with this paradigm shift came new realities. what has been adopted today is not a unified european collective agreement, and we must not forget that this matter is still guaranteed and regulated by the national constitutions or fundamental laws of each member state. what we have here today is an initiative to find a framework, a model, for future transnational labour agreements that can better protect workers in transnational companies, minimising the occurrence of situations where these same workers are not protected by the law or trade unions of any member state.
in writing. − due to globalisation and the increasing transnationalisation of group management, there is an increasing need for cross-border solutions to labour problems. the transnationalisation process cannot take place at the expense of the structurally weaker workers, nor can it end in pure wage and social dumping. efficient enterprises with a good workforce and a good employment rate are the ideal to be achieved, and this can only be achieved through a quality social dialogue, legally guaranteed. agreements between employee representatives and employers can, however, be very varied, both in their designation (agreement, declaration, code of conduct, company agreement, collective agreement) and in the contracting parties, with numerous forms differing from each other. the more agreements there are, the greater the need to define specific forms. however, as long as no binding definitions are adopted, there will always be room for different interpretations arising from the differences between the various industrial relations systems. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: despite the absence of legal provisions, and the disparity of provisions, many transnational european agreements have been concluded.
in writing. − business strategies of concentration on the core activity, extension of the workbench, use of countries with low income levels, low price policy and obtaining market access, coupled with an adaptation of products and services to customer wishes in an ever shorter time frame, are leading to large and rapid changes in the companies that manufacture the products and provide the services. this implies permanent fluctuations in workload, organisational changes and restructuring, which affect the workers. in this context, firms normally apply their production systems and business structures to all the establishments they own. the increasing transnationalisation of group management is increasing the need for cross-border solutions to labour problems. we believe that by adopting this report we are taking the first step towards defending workers who are affected by the increasing transnationalisation of economic activities. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − due to the increasing transnationalisation of group management, there is an increasing need for cross-border solutions to labour problems. the scope of social and labour systems for workers today usually ends at the national borders, and in many enterprises the social partners have reached agreements to be able to shape these changes. the transnationalisation process in question must not be carried out at the expense of the structurally more vulnerable workers, nor must it end in pure wage and social dumping. this report seeks to combat these factors by promoting the protection of workers, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − european transnational enterprise agreements are the new forms of social dialogue in multinational enterprises. a way of solving labour problems, of discussing issues of mobility, hygiene and safety at work and training. this form of dialogue, which is still in its infancy, could create more favourable conditions for crossborder workers.
in writing. - considering that every year thousands of third country nationals or stateless persons under the age of 18 arrive alone in the european union or are left to their own devices after arrival, i commend this report which aims to put an end to this phenomenon, and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the 2010 action plan on unaccompanied minors establishes a common european approach based on the principle of the best interests of the child, enshrining prevention, reception and the identification of durable solutions as the main areas of action to be put into practice through concrete measures to be put into practice by all actors at european and national level. the interim report reveals that the arrival of unaccompanied minors is not a temporary phenomenon and as such requires a common approach to deal with this type of migration which requires special attention and specific support, since we are talking about children, fleeing situations of poverty, violence, conflict or political persecution, or even victims of trafficking for exploitation. it is necessary to focus on the prevention of unsafe migration and trafficking of children, the promotion of awareness-raising actions for children at risk and the development of integrated systems for the protection of children. it is also important that the eu strengthens reception arrangements and access to appropriate procedural safeguards for these children, in order to create a consistent level of protection that is equivalent and effective throughout the eu.
in writing. − the eu must develop coordinated policies and legislation on the situation of unaccompanied minors, in order to protect them from the potential risks and threats that their special situation entails. the virtualities of a space of freedom without frontiers cannot jeopardize the safety, health or even the lives of minors, and special precautions are therefore needed in this area.
in writing. - an unaccompanied minor is first and foremost a child in danger. the protection of children, not immigration policies, should be the most important principle of the member states and the european union in this area, thus fulfilling the fundamental principle of the best interests of the child. indeed, the best interests of the child, as enshrined in the texts and case law, must prevail over any other consideration and in all acts adopted in relation to children, whether by public authorities or by private institutions. the commission should therefore promote the correct application of the eu legislative provisions on the best interests of the child and propose strategic guidance, based on best practice, case law and the general comment no 6 (2005) of the un committee on the rights of the child on the treatment of unaccompanied children and children outside their country of origin, and assess, on the basis of a set of indices and criteria, the notion of the best interests of the child.
in writing. - unfortunately, every year thousands of third country nationals or stateless persons under the age of 18 arrive in the european union alone or are left to their own devices after arrival. ongoing conflicts in various parts of the world and the current global economic crisis have caused a sharp increase in the number of unaccompanied minors. unaccompanied minors arrive in the eu for a variety of reasons: war, violence, violations of their fundamental rights, the desire to be reunited with their families, natural disasters, poverty, trafficking, exploitation. in the face of this reality, the eu cannot but do everything in its power to minimise this situation. it is our duty to welcome these young people and to give them a dignified welcome, which should be centred on an individual life project, drawn up for the child and with his or her collaboration, while fully respecting his or her ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic origins. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution of 12 september 2013 on the situation of unaccompanied minors in the eu, which underlines the urgent need for the eu and the member states to find a coherent response to protect unaccompanied minors in full respect of their fundamental rights and welcomes the member states that have ratified the optional protocol to the united nations convention on the rights of the child on the legal protection of children against the most violent forms of exploitation.
in writing. − this own-initiative report contains recommendations to improve the situation of unaccompanied minors during their stay in the union and on their return to their country of origin. the recommendations cover the different stages of the child reception process, call for cooperation between countries of origin and transit and call for responses to the problem of trafficking in children. the council also called on the commission to implement a strategy based on best practice and to submit an annual report to parliament and the council on progress made. it is necessary for the states themselves to develop and implement national strategies to respond to this situation. minors shall be protected and treated with the same rights as national minors, in particular in matters of housing, education, support, access to health and information and equal treatment with regard to their mother tongue and religious beliefs. i am in favour of this report because dignity and solidarity must not be forgotten in our daily actions.
in writing. − this report aims to be a starting point for common strategies for member states, criticizing the eu action plan on unaccompanied minors (2010-2014) presented by the european commission. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council. it considers that any action in relation to an unaccompanied minor must be based on two principles: the best interests of the child and the protection of the rights of the child. it is intended that these two principles should not be overridden by the laws on migration. it therefore advocates a ban on the placement of minors in detention centres, the provision of specialised services (accommodation, psychological and legal support, access to education, health care, the appointment of a legal guardian), the condemnation of invasive age assessment techniques, the conditionality of return on the best interests of the child, the creation of training conditions for officials and agents, including on gender issues. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary and important to support research for innovation, with a view to expanding into new markets by offering innovative and creative products, promoting employment and economic growth.
in writing. − the growth of cultural and creative industries has been exponential in terms of job creation and contribution to member states' gdp. it is for this reason, and also because of the extremely favourable moment in which we find ourselves, that it is important to explore and deepen the potential of these industries. we must therefore make the most of the potential of the digital age, implement a community dynamic and stimulate the cultural sector by equipping these industries with innovative economic models.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) are a diverse set of organisations of varying size and operating in diverse fields such as architecture, crafts, cultural heritage, design, festivals, cinema, television, music, visual arts, performing arts, archives, libraries, publishing and radio. according to the 2010 european competitiveness report, these sectors account for 4.5% of gdp and 8.5 million jobs in the european union. several studies confirm the economic importance of these sectors, which, in a europe severely hit by the economic recession, are growing at a higher than average rate. these sectors also play a major role as catalysts and disseminators of innovation, the positive effects of which are not limited to the cultural and creative spheres but extend to various sectors of the economy. the public and political discourse and perception of the cultural and creative sectors therefore need to be strengthened. the next mff should be used to strengthen these sectors, which, in addition to being value and job creators, not generally relocatable and their contribution in terms of real societal value, are crucial for europe's digital future.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) are a diverse set of organisations of varying size and operating in diverse fields such as architecture, crafts, cultural heritage, cinema, performing arts, among others. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the development of the csfs. while safeguarding the need for public funding for such projects and organisations, the search for alternative funding, such as patronage, is encouraged. the rapporteur also proposes that a professional status be guaranteed for csc professionals, so that they can benefit from satisfactory working conditions and appropriate measures in the field of taxation, labour rights, social protection and copyright. this is an important step towards regulating a profession which is often unprotected. although this system does not yet cover all professionals, as is the case with the intermittent workers, this proposal could be seen as a contribution to a struggle which still needs to win more battles. i abstained.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) are a diverse set of organisations, operating in diverse fields such as architecture, crafts, cultural heritage, design, festivals, cinema, television, music, visual arts, performing arts, archives, libraries, publishing, radio, and others. these sectors account for 4.5% of gdp and 8.5 million jobs in the european union. several studies confirm the economic importance of these sectors, which, in a europe severely hit by the economic recession, are growing at a higher than average rate. the potential of this sector as an economic catalyst and job creator is great, thus helping the eu to emerge from the crisis it is in. we need to look at the cultural and creative sectors as potential actors in the solution to the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the commission proposal, which, as defined after the amendments of the european parliament, has contributed to the reflection on the measures to be taken to give the necessary impetus to the promotion of the cultural and creative sectors in order to promote growth and employment in the european union. the document calls for the visibility of the creative and cultural sectors, which give europe its cultural exception, and for their support and recognition at eu and member state level.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) are a diverse set of organisations of varying size and operating in diverse fields, ranging from architecture, crafts, cultural heritage, cinema, the performing arts, among others. the report also calls for the establishment of a favourable fiscal regulatory framework and for the use of all relevant instruments and programmes to enable cscs to have easier access to finance. while safeguarding the need for public funding for such projects and organisations, the search for alternative funding, such as patronage, is encouraged. the rapporteur also proposes that a professional status be guaranteed for csc professionals, so that they can benefit from satisfactory working conditions and appropriate measures in the field of taxation, labour rights, social protection and copyright. this is an important step towards regulating a profession which is often unprotected. although this system does not yet cover all professionals, as is the case with the intermittent workers, this proposal could be seen as a contribution to a struggle which still needs to win more battles. i abstained.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors cover a number of areas and already account for 4.5% of the union's gdp and employ 8.5 million people in the union. following the presentation by the european commission of a strategy bearing the same title as this report, national public authorities need to see this sector not only as a source of growth but also of social cohesion. access to finance must be facilitated while supporting people's cultural training. the diversity of the union is rooted in its culture, so it is necessary to promote creative, innovative projects that bring about growth and economic development.
in writing. - the eu is exploiting more and more different business sectors, alienating what should be the rights of the people. culture does not escape this predatory weed. the eu charter of fundamental rights states that the arts and scientific research are free. this ambiguous concept certainly does not imply that everyone should have the freedom to create culture, that everyone should have the freedom to enjoy culture. the report argues that these sectors are made up mainly of smes, but also of associations and institutions, equating them as if they were pursuing the same objectives. those who voted in favour of this report agree that cultural projects should be supported, particularly in view of their economic viability and the economic impact they have. considers that culture is all the more important when it has opportunities in new markets, is more competitive and more entrepreneurial. the most incredible thing is that the proposed funding model for the cultural sector follows the example of the new creative europe programme - the granting of credit, therefore the indebtedness of cultural entities. access to private sources of finance and the creation of loan guarantee schemes are what this report advocates the commodification of culture at its best.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the so-called shortcomings of the eu emissions trading scheme are but the finished demonstration of the ineffectiveness and perversity of market instruments such as carbon trading. the carbon market is ineffective in terms of the objectives it claims to achieve, as its operation to date demonstrates. it is perverse, because it may even lead to results contrary to what it claims to be. it could be used for a lot of things: for a new haven for financial speculators; for creating another billion-dollar machine for generating fictitious financial assets. it's not good for protecting nature. with this instrument, the eu's message is clear: why invest in environmentally friendly technologies when you can buy the right to pollute? leaving the achievement of environmental objectives to the whims of the market can only lead to bad results. it is a pity that even some environmentalists or some who claim to be such have not yet realized this. the question we should be asking the european commission is another: when will the market approach be replaced by a regulatory approach, which applies the principle of common but differentiated responsibility in a fair and proportionate way?
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the subject. mauritania is recognized as a country with immense fisheries resources. nevertheless, its fisheries sector is still at a very early stage of development, which is a sign of the failure of the declared development cooperation objectives set out in agreements with the european union at least 15 years ago. we stand for the inalienable right of every country and every people to decide in a sovereign manner on the exploitation of its natural resources. several provisions of this new agreement correspond to the fair and legitimate exercise of this sovereignty by mauritania, to the fair and legitimate defence of its interests. this is the case, for example, with the obligation to land catches in mauritanian ports, the hiring of seamen or the rules on supply. the european commission is required to take account of the diversity of the fleet using these vessels, their problems and specificities, and their legitimate aspirations and expectations, in its actions and in particular in the negotiation of agreements of this kind. it is clear that this agreement is damaging to the fishing sectors of some countries, especially in the smaller-scale fishing segment. the european commission has failed to safeguard the interests of these segments in the negotiations and is now being asked to either renegotiate the agreement, if that is still possible, or to assess its impact and take compensatory measures, without which a number of coastal communities could see a situation that is already in deep crisis worsen.
mr president, commissioner, fisheries partnership agreements are essential from an economic point of view for the european fleet because of the fishing opportunities they open up, from a social point of view for third countries because of the financial and social compensation they receive and for the world fisheries sector because of the strict sustainability standards to which the european fleet is bound and which are not met by other fleets, which as a rule take the place of europeans when they withdraw. the eu-mauritania fisheries agreement is the eu's most important with a third country in terms of catch volumes, variety of fishery products, annual financial compensation granting access to mauritanian waters to some 100 european vessels from 12 member states and with fishing opportunities for eight different categories. the first version of the agreement was frankly unsatisfactory to the european fleet, which supported the negative vote of the committee on fisheries. however, this vote and the constant pressure from the rapporteur, whom i thank for his work, have made it possible to renegotiate some of the technical conditions laid down in the protocol and to introduce adjustments at various levels, which could significantly contribute to improving the cost-benefit ratio and the level of use of this protocol by the european fleet, which allows me to vote in favour of the fisheries agreement.
mr president, the decisions of the portuguese constitutional court confirm the radical confrontation between the programme of the european union, the imf and the government which implements it and the fundamental law of the country. the pretext for the implementation of this genuine aggression against the country and its people is a real assault on democratic institutions, an assault which the president of the european commission has decided to make clearer with shameful and unacceptable statements of pressure on national sovereignty bodies. mr barroso knows that the matter has been settled for a long time. for this reason, the parties in the troika lost over 800 000 votes in the last elections. the demand for an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy has seen the important strengthening of the unitary democratic coalition confirm the growing popular support it has gathered. the coalition of communists, environmentalists and many thousands of independents was the only force to grow in these elections and to grow in votes, in percentage, in majorities and in mandates. and the struggle continues, already on the 19th, with two great demonstrations organized by the cgtp national inter-syndical, in lisbon and porto. this is the response of dignity to the indignity and outrage of the statements of the president of the european commission.
mr president, genocide is a serious problem that must be fought. the preference for male children in some countries, which is justified for cultural and economic reasons, eventually results in a crime. the consequences of this are obvious. men have difficulty finding partners, leading to forced marriages, prostitution and trafficking of women. the practice of forced abortions and surgeries intended to terminate a pregnancy without the prior and informed consent of the woman should be criminalised. the european union must include the issue of genocide in its political dialogue with third countries.
genocide, which, as we know, affects women in particular, is a problem usually associated with unequal societies, with countries excluded from the centres of world capitalism, where many communities face harsh living conditions. obviously, you should not apologize to the aggressor, who is responsible for his heinous crimes. but what are the underlying causes that lead families to consider that a child must be born because it is useful for work? what level of civilization have we reached where it's still possible to think like that? we live in a world of enormous inequalities, to which the european union has contributed a great deal through its economic policy, its numerous free trade agreements and its militaristic approach. the second point is that there is no way of combating genocide without ensuring that women have a choice, without ensuring that public services provide all the information and support they need, without guaranteeing their economic freedom. the so-called democracy which the union is putting into practice is the opposite of these guarantees.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members, all the political groups, who have made a very important contribution to the debate on this report. european foreign policy must reflect the values of democracy and human rights. however, corruption has long undermined the ability of the european union to promote reforms in third countries to effectively combat corruption and to prevent, detect and punish complicity by european, public or private sector actors in third countries with a serious impact on human rights, justice, good governance and sustainable development in those countries. we need to ensure that what we do within the european union is consistent with what we promote abroad and also to do that we need to ask about ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. however, corruption has long undermined the ability of the european union to promote reforms in third countries to effectively combat corruption and to prevent, detect and punish complicity by european public or private sector actors in third countries with a serious impact on human rights, justice, good governance and sustainable development in those countries. we need to ensure that what we do within the european union is consistent with what we promote outside it, and to do that we also need to ask ourselves how we are instigators, or even accomplices, in the phenomenon of corruption and the colossal illicit capital flight that is diverted from resources for education, health, and other basic services in developing countries. we must therefore put an end to bank secrecy, increase transparency about the real owners of companies, strengthen european legislation on money laundering and improve our criminal laws, by criminalising illicit enrichment and giving european courts jurisdiction to try all corruption crimes, even when committed abroad. we will thus be responding to the demands of our own citizens who are well aware that the present crisis - which exposes the glaring economic asymmetries and the obscenely growing social inequalities in europe itself - is also the result of the corrupt practices that financial and economic deregulation of recent decades has allowed to flourish. from spain, overwhelmed by the scale of the bárcenas case, to greece, where a former defence minister was sentenced to 20 years in prison today for corruption in the purchase of german submarines, to portugal, where the defence minister responsible for the purchase of german submarines in contracts rife with corruption and fictitious counterparts is now deputy prime minister and the then prime minister is president of the european commission, without ever having been heard by the judiciary, which nevertheless investigates the contracts and the companies involved. finally, in this disturbing context, european citizens demand that politicians, who are us, not only act with integrity and diligence, catch and punish the corrupt, but also effectively prevent corruption. in our member states, in the european union and in relations with third countries, because we cannot fight corruption in third countries without starting at home. we propose many measures in this report. we propose, for example, to take inspiration from the magnitsky act, adopted by the us congress with a new strategy for dealing with human rights violations, in particular those committed against anti-corruption activists. but there is no reason why a similar eu law should be restricted to russian officials involved in the murder of lawyer magnitsky. in this report we call for a mechanism that lists and imposes specific sanctions, such as travel bans to europe and asset freezes parked here, against officials of any country involved in serious human rights violations and judicial manipulation against corruption whistleblowers, journalists and human rights activists. as regards our cooperation with third countries, the utmost integrity and transparency in the flows of development aid must be ensured. entities contracting with the european union must disclose their structure and ownership. in this report we call for reforms to budgetary transparency, which is why we demand budgetary transparency in return for financial support to the budgets of third countries. in the field of corporate social responsibility, we think that the european union should take the lead, we think that lists should be drawn up of companies convicted of corruption within or outside the european union so that they are prevented from participating in public tenders in the union, at least until they correct and guarantee integrity. we believe that this is an incentive not only to integrity in the internal procedures of companies, but to create a global environment conducive to the economic and commercial activities of our companies. finally, in this report we ask for clear guidelines for the protection and follow-up of information provided by any individual who reports on illegalities and abuses of power in the use of public resources of the union or of the member states. we have to create an international legal framework, which is indispensable in order to protect the so-called whistleblowers, those who give information that is indispensable to detect and to punish and prevent corruption.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, i think this is a timely report, the subject is an important and topical one. the european union must set an example, it must adopt stricter rules, not only on its own territory but also in its relations with third countries in the field of cooperation. it has been said here, and i stress it, that we must not forget that inequalities and social injustices are at the root of the economic crisis we are suffering and that it is the greed of some, the fraud of others and the deregulation of the financial sector that have brought us to where we are, that is to say with so many sacrifices being imposed on so many citizens. the divorce between citizens and politicians is notorious, and that is why we must adopt exemplary procedures and ensure that there is transparency in all our activities, whether in the financial sector, the economic sector or political activity.
the fight against corruption, if it is to be effective, cannot ignore the culture in which these practices tend to proliferate. the so-called structural adjustment programmes that the imf has been imposing for decades in the four corners of the world and that the european union is now imposing on the peripheral countries, programmes based on privatisation, the emptying of public assets, the opening up to business of areas that were previously protected from the market, such as public services, in short, the prevalence of private interests over the public interest, these policies, in addition to the trail of destruction, unemployment and poverty they leave, create the conditions for a growing promiscuity between political and economic power and for the development of corrupt practices, while weakening public mechanisms for monitoring and combating these practices. a policy to combat corruption must be based above all on preventing it and must necessarily break with these policies.
this report recognises the clear trend towards increasing regional inequality in the european union. but how did we get here and what is needed to reverse this path? the first point is that the deepening of integration, the single market, common policies, their neoliberal matrix, by their very nature capitalist, lead to unequal development, inevitably to divergence. this is a dynamic that the manifestly insufficient resources allocated to cohesion have never been able to counteract. secondly, to reverse this trend requires a fundamental change in the policies of the european union. it requires the recognition of the right of each country and region to development and the encouragement of the full exploitation of its endogenous potential. it calls for a substantial increase in the allocations for economic and social cohesion and not for their weakening as envisaged in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. it also requires conditions for mobilising cohesion funds and other funds from the eu budget to avoid their being wasted, facilitating the mobilisation of national counterparts and putting an end to unacceptable macroeconomic conditionality rules.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs mcavan, on her excellent work, on the excellent report she has presented to us. tobacco is bad for you, tobacco kills. i was a smoker, i quit 13 years ago, but unfortunately i have seen some of my friends die from smoking. despite the tobacco control measures adopted in recent years, the truth is that young people continue to smoke and continue to start smoking at an earlier age. we therefore need to adopt restrictive measures and welcome the large-scale warnings, the ban on misleading information, the slim cigarettes, as well as measures against the illicit trade in tobacco products. as for electronic cigarettes, which are not regulated, this gap needs to be filled in order to guarantee safety and quality, and i think that the authorisation procedure as a pharmaceutical product is the one that gives us the best guarantees. finally, i would like to call on you to adopt amendments nos 111 and 112 tabled by the socialist and democratic group, which seek to correct a technical aspect which discriminates against certain types of cigarette packages.
in writing. we are facing legislation of the utmost importance in the essential control of smoking and in improving the public health of the millions of europeans affected by the disease and the many hundreds of thousands who die prematurely every year as a result of tobacco use. reducing tobacco consumption, especially among young people, is an imperative which no responsible person can fail to pursue and which no major interest can evoke to override. it is enough to mention that 13 million people suffer from health problems and 700 000 die every year as a result of tobacco use and that by the age of 18 70% of our young people have started to use tobacco and by the age of 25 94% have done so. that is why we welcome this directive in all areas where it is genuinely in favour of health. however, there are aspects outside health where the proposal for a directive has gone too far. i would therefore like to thank the s&ds for having made an exception by submitting my amendment to the plenary alone to safeguard the unfair and unjustified non-discrimination against azorean tobacco, which has nothing to do with health reasons. i therefore ask the whole of parliament to support the redress of this injustice.
the experience of the practical application of the environmental impact assessment procedure over the last 25 years, despite the positive aspects it reveals, shows us that it can and should be improved, learning from experience and adapting it to the evolution of the political, legal and technical-scientific context. we have tabled several amendments to this proposal for a directive. in addition to introducing more timely corrections and improvements, several of the proposals aim to provide increased public participation and scrutiny of the studies and their results. we therefore welcome the inclusion in the proposal under consideration of a new provision which we proposed, guaranteeing the public the right to request an environmental impact assessment on a particular project of interest to them, through active participation mechanisms involving in particular residents, local authorities or ngos, and member states must now take the necessary measures and establish the necessary conditions to ensure the implementation of this right. but there is more to be done to improve the procedure and not everything will be resolved with this proposal. some examples, in addition to the necessary consideration of new types of projects, which we have supported, more attention is needed to the analysis of cumulative impacts of projects, more attention is needed to the post-evaluation phase. public authorities in the field of the environment have a key role to play here and must be properly equipped to carry it out.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the ukrainian space industry is among the world leaders in the design and production of launchers and critical global navigation satellite systems (gnss components). in addition, it should be noted that since 2000, ukraine has shown interest in european gnss projects and has developed its own contribution to the region's its egnos system bed test, the forerunner of galileo. since 2010, discussions have been ongoing to increase the coverage of egnos to the ukrainian territory. the coverage of egnos in ukraine will enhance the integrity of egnos in eastern poland, romania and bulgaria. i believe that this agreement will allow for closer cooperation with ukraine and will allow for the implementation of a number of elements of the european satellite navigation programmes, now integrating poland, bulgaria and romania through this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the agreement on the global navigation satellite system with ukraine will allow for the expansion of cooperation in areas such as standardisation, certification, radio spectrum, industrial collaboration and the development of trade and markets between the eu and one of the eight countries with the best technology and know-how in the world in this field.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a european space policy.
in writing. the report by mrs sartori deals with the eu-ukraine cooperation agreement on a global satellite navigation system. ukraine is one of the eight countries with significant technological know-how in satellite navigation equipment, applications and regional technology. the ukrainian space industry is among the world leaders in the design and production of global navigation satellite systems (gnss). i therefore support this report which approves the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and ukraine.
in writing. the report approves the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the ec and ukraine on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). this system integrates the galileo and egnos programmes. we have expressed our concern on several occasions about the potential use of these systems for military purposes or in the service of security dynamics. ensuring the proper use of the system will have to be based on a public investment and control strategy in order to provide a public service, ensuring equal access for all users and guaranteeing the free use of the information available to them. we believe that these programmes and systems can contribute to cooperation, scientific and technical progress and accessibility of information. in view of such a large public investment, any attempt to conclude a concession contract for its future exploitation by a private entity would be unacceptable, especially in a project where the rights, guarantees and freedoms of citizens must be fully guaranteed. the assessment of this report is therefore necessarily based on this general assessment of gnss.
in writing. - ukraine is one of the most technologically advanced european countries in satellite navigation, having even developed its own system. this agreement, which has been under negotiation for some time, will allow the extension of the egnos system to ukraine. bulgaria and romania will also benefit from this agreement as the integrity of egnos will be enhanced in their territories.
in writing. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and its member states and ukraine. the members of the committee on industry, research and energy recommended that the european parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement. the ukrainian space industry is among the world leaders in the design and production of launchers and critical global navigation satellite systems (gnss components). in view of the above and the favourable opinion of the committee responsible, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european initiative to create the galileo and egnos programmes will not only allow europe to establish strategic autonomy and independence vis-à-vis the other economic blocs, but above all will bring improvements to the daily lives of european citizens and generate direct and indirect benefits for the european economy. however, in order to realise the benefits of the programmes, it is necessary to establish a medium- and long-term strategy, including the interoperability of the system with third countries, in particular ukraine. only when the galileo and egnos systems are fully operational will they provide concrete european added value in all european union policies, in particular in transport, agriculture, the fight against climate change, the prevention of natural and man-made disasters and in the area of science, technology and innovation.
in writing. the report approves the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the ec and ukraine on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). this system is part of the galileo and egnos programmes, which we have repeatedly expressed our concern about, given the potential for use, including, if necessary, for military purposes and other security dynamics, which they contain. ensuring the proper use of the system is based on a public investment and control strategy in order to provide a public service, ensuring equal access for all users and guaranteeing the free use of the information available to them. we believe that these programmes and systems can contribute to cooperation, scientific and technical progress and accessibility of information. we believe that, after such a large public investment, any attempt to conclude a concession contract for its future exploitation by a private entity would be unacceptable, especially in a project where the rights, guarantees and freedoms of citizens must be fully guaranteed.
in writing. − i approve of this report, considering that, according to the italian authorities, the ict sector in italy has had rather positive results in the period 2005-08, reaching a reasonable level of economic activity, especially when compared with other sectors. this performance was achieved despite strong competition from ict companies with low production costs. as a result of the crisis, the situation has been reversed with a clear loss for european countries and, in this case, italy being particularly affected. i also welcome this report, given that the digital divide between italy and the main european countries, as well as other countries in the world, has worsened due to the slowdown in economic activity caused by the crisis. all these developments led to the reduction of ict staff in italian companies from 2009.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 1 164 930 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support the 480 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the european globalisation adjustment fund, of the 529 workers made redundant by the companies anovo italia s.p.a and jabil cm s.r.l. in the lombardy region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree to the mobilisation of eur 1 164 930 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to mitigate the impact of 529 simultaneous redundancies in the region. it will now be necessary to improve the employability of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired throughout their working careers.
in writing. - lombardy is the most prosperous region in italy and enjoyed a governance oriented towards the service of its citizens and communities, setting a good example for the whole country. the fact that the european globalisation adjustment fund needs to be mobilised here is further evidence of the way in which the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing today has affected the whole of the european union and even those regions and sectors such as ict which are deemed most able to overcome it. i regret the delay in the mobilisation of the fund in the present case and hope that the 18 months of waiting can be partially compensated by this european aid. i hope that the italian ict sector can regain the momentum it has lost and re-position itself as a factor of prosperity and employment for its people.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. this is the fifth mobilisation of the fund under the 2013 budget for a total amount of eur 1 164 930 for italy. it concerns 529 redundancies in anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian ict companies, 480 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011. the amount of the proposed financial contribution will leave more than 25% of the annual maximum amount allocated to the egf for interventions during the last four months of the year, as provided for in article 12 (6) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. − this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 164 930 from the egf for italy. it concerns 529 redundancies in anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian companies in the ict sector: 322 redundancies in jabil cm s.r.l. and 207 redundancies in anovo italia s.p. this is another support for workers made redundant in italy in the lombardy region, the most prosperous region in italy, which produces a fifth of the country's gdp. the justification for the closure of these companies and the consequent dismissal of their workers lies, once again, in the structural changes in world trade patterns and the world economic and financial crisis. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. every day that passes brings further and further away the hope of a better life for the millions of workers who are being deprived of their right to work and to a decent life.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to italy, which submitted an application egf/2011/025 it/lombardia for a financial contribution from the egf, following 529 redundancies in lombardy, 480 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 28 june 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 164 930 from the egf for italy, based on 529 redundancies in anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian companies in the ict sector, with 480 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 1 164 930 from the egf for italy, with the aim of supporting the 480 potential beneficiaries of the 529 workers made redundant in the companies anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., an electronic components manufacturer in lombardy, italy.
in writing. − the globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the application of tomaso automobili s.p.a. is the sixth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 2 594 672 for italy. the commission has decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the following cases: the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed covers measures for the reintegration of 1010 workers concerned into the labour market, such as vocational guidance, relocation and assistance in finding employment, training, contribution to the creation of a company, recruitment allowance, job-seeking allowance, contributions to social costs, such as participation in carers' costs and participation in travel costs. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree to the request to mobilise eur 1 164 930,00 to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l. as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. i believe that the european commission should step up support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns and help them to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 164 930 from the egf for italy. it concerns 529 redundancies in the companies anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian companies in the ict sector: 322 redundancies in jabil cm s.r.l. and 207 redundancies in anovo italia s.p. this is another financial mobilisation for workers made redundant in italy in the lombardy region, the most prosperous region in italy, which produces one fifth of italy's gdp and which is using egf support for the second time to cope with economic and social difficulties. we stress the fact that this application was submitted on 30 december 2011 and the european commission only made its assessment available on 28 june 2013, which we consider to be negative. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. every day that passes brings the hope of a better life for millions of workers further away.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by pointing out that the commission has already recognised the impact of the economic and financial crisis on the automotive sector and that this sector has been the subject of the majority of applications for egf support. i welcome the decision of the italian authorities to start implementing the personalised measures on 15 january 2013, well before the final decision on the granting of egf support in relation to the proposed coordinated package, in order to support workers quickly. i note that the redundancies were covered by the wage compensation fund (cig), the social security system in italy, which provided financial benefits to workers to compensate for lost wages. i would also point out that the italian authorities requested support from the egf for the financing of subsistence allowances, but of an additional value to the social security payments normally provided for in italian labour legislation for the benefit of their unemployed.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 2 594 672 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support the 1010 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, out of the 1030 workers made redundant by de tomaso automobili s.p.a.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by agreeing to the mobilisation of eur 2 594 672 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy following 1030 redundancies at de tomaso automobili spa. egf support should be granted primarily for the purpose of vocational training and job search. the financial contribution to benefits should always be additional to and parallel to that provided to workers under national legislation or collective agreements.
in writing. - the automotive sector, once one of the main contributors to italy's fame and prosperity, is now facing increased problems due to changing consumption patterns and increasing competition from third countries. the application underlying this resolution reflects these same difficulties and helps to make even clearer the effects of the crisis which we are unfortunately all experiencing today. behind the numbers, there are real people and real lives. families and communities touched by concern and despair to which we must not fail to come whenever we can. i hope that european support will lessen the impact of these dismissals and may contribute, albeit modestly, to the return to the labour market of the workers affected.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. this is the fifth mobilisation of the fund under the 2013 budget for a total amount of eur 1 164 930 for italy. it concerns 529 redundancies in anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian ict companies, 480 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011. the amount of the proposed financial contribution will leave more than 25% of the annual maximum amount allocated to the egf for interventions during the last four months of the year, as provided for in article 12 (6) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. − this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 594 672 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy. the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of the dismissal of 1030 workers in the automobile manufacturer de tomaso automobili s.p.a., a company in italy. as has been the case, the justification for further attacks on labour rights lies on the one hand in changing geographical patterns of consumption, in particular the rapid growth in asian markets from which eu manufacturers are reaping less benefits, coupled with credit constraints resulting from the economic and financial crisis. more than these funds which in a way legitimize the policy of dismissals and support employers in this decision, what workers need is the implementation of investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights. only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to italy, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of an application egf/2012/008 it/de tomaso automobili following 1030 redundancies in de tomaso automobili s.p.a. and 1010 workers were covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 5 july 2012 to 28 august 2012.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 28 june 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 2 594 672 from the egf in favour of italy, based on 1 030 redundancies in de tomaso automobili s.p.a., an automobile manufacturer in italy, with 1 010 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 5 july 2012 to 28 august 2012. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. as a consequence of these structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from globalisation, the car manufacturer de tomaso automobili s.p.a. went into liquidation in april 2012 and, failing to find a viable solution, resorted to 1 030 redundancies. parliament recognised that growth in the eu automotive industry was far below that of its main competitors and recognised that, despite the union being the world's leading car producer, the decline in market share had put increased pressure on companies already constrained by credit constraints as a result of the impact of the economic and financial crisis. considering that the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision to mobilise the fund from the egf reserve, for a total amount of eur 2 594 672, in favour of the reintegration of the 1 010 workers concerned into the labour market.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i, the undersigned, declare that i am satisfied with the request to mobilise the amount of eur 2 594 672 to obtain a financial contribution from the egf, following 1 030 redundancies in de tomaso automobili s.p.a., of which 1 010 workers were covered by the co-financed measures during the reference period from 5 july 2012 to 28 august 2012. finally, it is important to ensure that the egf supports the individual reintegration of workers made redundant into stable employment and that such assistance can only co-finance active labour market measures leading to lasting and long-term employment.
in writing. − this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 594 672 from the egf for italy. the measures involve 1 030 redundancies at de tomaso automobili spa, an italian car manufacturer, of which 1 010 are covered by measures co-financed by the egf. as has been the case, the justification for further attacks on the right to work lies on the one hand in changes in geographical patterns of consumption (such as in asian markets) coupled with credit constraints resulting from the economic and financial crisis. more than these funds which in a way legitimize the policy of dismissals and support employers in this decision, what workers need is the implementation of investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights. only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
in writing. − i approve of this report, considering that corruption in the public and private sectors perpetuates and aggravates inequalities and discrimination when it comes to equal civil, political, economic, social or cultural rights, and further emphasise that it is proven that acts of corruption and violation of human rights involve the misuse of power, lack of accountability and discrimination in various forms. moreover, corruption is inevitably detrimental to the economic and social development of a people. i am therefore convinced that there must be coherence between internal and external policies so that the european union is credible and valued as the highest level of transparency and accountability in external aid and also with regard to the public budgets to be requested by the european union in relation to the budget of the european union and external aid. in supporting the political role of the european union, i also advocate the highest level of corporate responsibility for human rights.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted today by the european parliament which proposes that the eu adopt an anti-corruption law, similar to the us sergei magnitsky act, which provides for visa bans and asset freezes for officials of third countries who are responsible for human rights violations. the commission should propose legislation requiring european companies to ensure that their acquisitions do not support perpetrators of corruption, conflict and serious human rights violations, including through the implementation of controls and audits. member states should adopt legislative and other measures to criminalise illicit enrichment in all eu countries, establishing that illicit enrichment with intent i.e. the substantial increase in the assets of a public official, without the latter being able to reasonably justify it on the basis of his legitimate income constitutes a criminal offence.
in writing. − given the negative effects of corruption not only on the public image of states but, more importantly, on their economic and financial performance, an integrated approach by the union to this issue is essential to limit the non-transparent use of development aid. corruption in the public and private sectors damages democracy, governance and state institutions, thus deteriorating the whole human rights environment, which is why the eu must take a firm and determined approach to preventing and combating corruption in third countries.
in writing. − corruption should be broadly interpreted and defined as the abuse, for personal, individual or collective gain, directly or indirectly, of powers entrusted to it, and that acts of corruption include, inter alia, the crimes of bribery, embezzlement, trafficking in influences, abuse of power and illicit enrichment. corruption undermines democracy and the rule of law, exacerbates unequal, unjust and discriminatory outcomes in the fair enjoyment of human rights, whether civil, political and economic or social and cultural rights. moreover, corruption disproportionately affects the most disadvantaged and marginalised groups in society, including by preventing their equitable access to political participation, public services, justice, security, land, employment, education, health and housing. according to the world bank, corruption accounts for 5 percent of the world's gdp ($2.6 billion), with an annual budget of over $1 trillion paid in bribes. the eu must lead by example in the fight against corruption. the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is also important in this area. it is important that banking secrecy and tax havens be ended on a global scale.
in writing. the report makes positive recommendations which should be taken up, such as advocating the end of banking secrecy or rules for greater openness and transparency in eu project funding, making them more scrutinized. but there are clear shortcomings and inadequacies, both in relation to tax havens - where the need to put an end to them needs to be clearly and unequivocally defended - and in relation, for example, to the effects of the imf's so-called structural adjustment programmes, or in relation to the root causes of corruption. the opening up of markets, natural resources and energy to the domination of eu monopolies, favouring their expansion, creates the breeding ground for corruption to proliferate. the same can be said of privatization and the many other impositions of the said adjustment programmes, which increase the promiscuity between political and economic power. whether in developing countries or in europe. the example of portugal is a good one. the strategy advocated here is almost exclusively aimed at combating corruption, to the detriment of a more effective approach that would involve prevention measures. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national laboratories for the development of new technologies. quite the opposite.
in writing. - corruption can be considered as one of the main causes of the increase in inequality, injustice and discrimination when we talk about the equitable enjoyment of human rights. the eu can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption if it addresses the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders in an appropriate way. i hope that the recent anti-corruption report will identify areas vulnerable to corruption in the member states and in turn help to strengthen anti-corruption efforts, facilitate the exchange of good practices, identify eu trends and stimulate peer learning, with a reinforced respect for commitments at eu and international level.
in writing. − the anti-corruption information report, to be published by the european commission, is a step towards the european union establishing itself as a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption by adequately addressing the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its borders. in fact, the identification by the commission of areas vulnerable to corruption in the member states is expected to help strengthen efforts to fight corruption. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. corruption is an old phenomenon, rooted in the mentality of the societies in which it occurs, which is an obstacle to transparency in public and private enterprises and to convincing denunciation of the harmful effects of inequity. anti-corruption efforts should therefore focus primarily on early education in respect for justice and fairness. states are thus called upon to apply the revenues of resource exploitation and the market, ensuring respect for human rights, in particular as they are affected by corruption. efforts to combat abuse of power usually focus on prevention and deterrence. one involves the aforementioned education about the nature and effects of corruption, the other seeks to promote measures that increase the risks, costs and uncertainties associated with corrupt practices. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy.
in writing. − the existence of corruption perpetuates the effects of inequality, injustice and discrimination in respect of human rights. the eu can only be an influential and credible leader vis-à-vis third countries if it can tackle the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and contribute to the monitoring and accountability of such activities. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - while including positive aspects that should be valued (notably the defence of the end of banking secrecy), this report leaves out practices and policies that are responsible for the spread of this phenomenon. the strategy advocated here focuses almost exclusively on the fight against corruption, to the detriment of a more effective approach that would involve prevention measures. the report does not set out measures to tackle the root causes of the growth of corruption in the eu's relations with third countries, namely the opening of markets to domination and the expansion of the eu's monopolies, its natural and energy resources, the geostrategic and diplomatic domain. not only does it not denounce but it also supports the eu's policies of interference in the internal affairs of third countries, the manipulation of internal political, religious and ethnic disputes, the fomenting of conflicts (of which syria is an example), the search for political and economic allies willing to alienate the sovereignty of their peoples in order to better satisfy the interests of their own group, the eu and its great powers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - i approve of this report and am in favour of a greater exploration and in greater detail of the design of specific mechanisms which promote closer working cooperation between research departments and the various institutions and bodies of the european union. i also welcome the intention to use the european strategy and policy analysis system to build a repository of material from various sources, identifying medium- to long-term trends, open to policy-makers and citizens worldwide, and i recommend that the four institutions currently involved in this strategy draw up and sign an interinstitutional agreement to maintain and continue the actions currently being carried out.
in writing. − the 2010 budget of the european union included a proposal by the european parliament for a pilot project to create an interinstitutional system to identify long-term trends in the main strategic issues facing the union. following the successful completion of the pilot project, the two arms of the budgetary authority, at the initiative of the european parliament, agreed in the 2012 budget to authorise the project to move to the next phase in the form of a preparatory action from 2012 to 2014. the aim is to create an interinstitutional system for identifying long-term trends in the main strategic issues, both internal and external, that are likely to shape the future and that need to be taken into account by the european union in its attempt to define coherent strategic options for the next governance cycle. a better understanding of global change can provide the european union with information and analysis that will enable better informed choices on issues of critical importance. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − i believe that the kind of collaboration that the epsas process represents is very important and should be supported and encouraged. i believe that if espas can be established and developed on the basis of the sound principles set out in this report, it will enable us to consult more frequently and seriously on the evolution of long-term global trends, as well as continuously improve our ability to identify key issues, improve the quality of our collective debate on the challenges and policy choices we face and ultimately help us to make better, faster decisions in the interest of our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'forecasting policy planning: budgetary impact on capacity building' because it includes proposals which will allow the work to be continued on the establishment of a lasting interinstitutional system at administrative level to support the eu institutions in preparing for and responding to political challenges and in defining coherent long-term strategic options, in particular with regard to a more effective link between the available financial resources and policy objectives.
in writing. − the member states of the european union should increasingly work together to identify the main long-term trends in strategic issues. member states should converge efforts and synergies in order to find budgetary feasible and sustainable solutions. the eu therefore intends to set up an interinstitutional working group to identify long-term trends in the main strategic issues, both internal and external, that are likely to shape the future and that should be taken into account by the european union in its attempt to define options for the next cycle of governance.
in writing. − the timely identification of long-term global trends influencing the challenges and choices facing the union contributes to coherent and effective governance. in this regard, the importance of effective cooperation between the eu institutions to monitor and analyse these long-term trends, as well as cooperation and networking with other actors, including the wider research community, both within and outside the european union, is emphasised. it is noted that in addition to public bodies, member states and eu institutions, economic and social partners, non-governmental organisations and other stakeholders should also be involved in the development of long-term strategies.
in writing. - we do not deny the importance of planning and foresight activities, of identifying long-term trends, especially when they are part of the definition of policies aimed at promoting development and social progress. to intervene in reality, to transform it, it is necessary, first of all, to know it. the context in which these activities are discussed here is quite different, however. this cannot but weigh heavily on our assessment of this report. a process of civilizational regression is under way in the eu. maintaining the current policies, as this report argues the larger objective to which forward planning activities are naturally subordinated will lead to more and more serious crises, of which the workers and peoples will continue to be the greatest victims. more attacks on democracy and effective citizen participation, devaluation of the role of the institutions of national sovereignty. we note the rejection of the amendments we tabled in the committee on budgets, concerning the defence of democracy, the enhancement of the institutions of national sovereignty, in particular the national parliaments, the need for a strengthened eu budget, among others.
in writing. the espas system, the european strategy and policy analysis system, exists to develop mechanisms for deeper and more regular cooperation between officials from the various bodies and institutions involved in strategic foresight. the epsas process should be supported and encouraged by parliament. if espas can be founded and developed on the sound principles set out in this report, it will enable us not only to consult more frequently and seriously on the evolution of long-term global trends, but also to continuously improve our ability to identify key issues, to improve the quality of our collective debate on the challenges and policy choices we face and ultimately to help us make better decisions, faster, in the interests of our citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - as president barroso has already said, the european strategy and policy analysis system (espas) sends a strong political signal that the european union is willing to look beyond institutional boundaries, and even go beyond internal and external borders, to face future developments and new challenges. the objective of the pilot project and the preparatory action is to establish an interinstitutional system for identifying long-term trends in the main strategic issues, both internal and external, which have the potential to shape the future and which should be taken into account by the european union in its attempt to define coherent strategic options for the next governance cycle. in doing so, the system's intention is not to predict but to anticipate possible trends, providing policymakers with common analyses of likely outcomes in such matters. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report stresses the need for the participating institutions and bodies to devote the necessary human and financial resources to the proper implementation of the european strategy and policy analysis system (epsas). this pilot project, which started with a report on global trends that could shape the world in the coming decades, has moved to the next phase after the two budgetary arms, parliament and council, authorised the budget financing the agency's activities for the period 2011 to 2014. however, and in order to ensure the continuity of the contribution of epsas, it is necessary to ensure funding from 2014 onwards on the basis of an administrative cooperation agreement between the commission, parliament, the council and the european external action service. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls on the institutions to provide the means necessary for the continuation of the body and its activities.
in writing. − the report entitled global trends 2030 citizenship in an interconnected and polycentric world, prepared by the european union institute for security studies (euis) as part of the european strategy and policy analysis system (espas) project, recommends closer coordination in the medium- and long-term forward-looking analysis. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that coherent and effective governance at european union level is essential and must be aligned with the timely identification of long-term global trends that influence the challenges and choices facing the union in an increasingly complex and interdependent world. i believe that the espas system, which brings together officials from various european institutions, needs to be strengthened, as it is currently taking a leading role in the development of mechanisms for the strategic perspective.
in writing. - i support this report, as i believe that the brussels i regulation is of the utmost importance to citizens and provides clear rules on access to justice, but these should be reworded to meet the needs of workers as well. i would stress the importance of addressing the imbalances in the representation of workers, both in the trade unions and among individual workers, but also in the contracts of workers, particularly those who do not have a regular place of work.
in writing. − on 12 december 2012, the recast of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments in civil and commercial matters was signed. the regulation introduced a number of important improvements, in particular the abolition of the exequatur procedure, which means that it will be much easier in the future to enforce a decision in another member state. this process of reformulation has not covered certain aspects of the rules on jurisdiction which apply to labour law. labour law is a particularly sensitive area and one in which the european union has only a relatively small influence. the aim is to protect workers, collectively and individually, who are usually the weakest party in employment relations, while also ensuring legal coherence and preventing national legal traditions from being overridden in the field of labour law, ensuring, as far as possible, that jurisdiction and the applicable law coincide. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the recast of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters has introduced a number of important improvements, in particular the abolition of the exequatur procedure, which means that enforcement of a judgment in another member state will be much easier in the future. however, the scope of the recasting process did not cover certain aspects of the rules on jurisdiction which apply to labour law. labour law is an area in which the european union has only a relatively small influence. however, the union has established rules governing which courts in the member states have the right to decide disputes, including in the field of labour law, in cross-border situations. the aim of the amendments proposed in the report is to protect workers, collectively and individually, who are generally the weakest party in employment relations, and also to ensure legal coherence and to prevent national legal traditions from being overlooked in the field of labour law, ensuring, as far as possible, that jurisdiction and the applicable law coincide.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces amendments which can help to better protect, collectively and individually, workers, who are generally the weakest part of industrial relations. it is essential to ensure legal consistency and to prevent national legal traditions from being overlooked in the field of labour law.
in writing. - labour law is still a matter for the states, with the european union having relatively little influence. each state has built its own system of protection for workers and it is not for the european union at this time to try to standardize legislation in this area. however, with a view to the free movement of workers and capital within the european union, the eu must establish rules governing which courts in the member states have the right to settle disputes, including in the field of labour law, in cross-border situations.
in writing. - the report by mrs evelyn regner is entitled 'improving private international law: rules of jurisdiction applicable in the field of employment'. the incorporation of the maritime labour convention into eu law gives a much stronger supervisory capacity in the community area, for example at the level of infringement proceedings in the european union itself, which will further strengthen the enforcement of the law. i therefore consider it important, within the framework of the eu's competences in this area, to have an approach based on transposing the mlc as fully as possible into this directive. it should be noted that this proposal is in line with the commission white paper of 28 march 2011 entitled 'roadmap for the single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system', which announces a social agenda for maritime transport.
in writing. this own-initiative report deals with the question of jurisdiction in labour law matters under the brussels i regulation. the rapporteur recalls high profile european court cases in relation to individual employment contracts and strikes (laval, viking, etc.) in which national provisions on labour law were undermined by european rules. we agree with the rapporteur's view that one of the principles of private international law at the judicial level is the protection of the weaker party, that is, in this case, workers. the report contains correct proposals, of which we would like to highlight: - in respect of the strike, the courts of the member state in which the strike has taken place or is to take place shall have jurisdiction; - as regards individual contracts of employment, amendments should be made to ensure that jurisdiction is exercised by the courts of the member state with the closest connection to the employment relationship; - the removal of the shopping forum the possibility of choosing a forum not because it is the most appropriate for adjudicating the dispute, but because the laws that that court will use will lead to the application of the law that is most favourable to the person who brought the action.
in writing. - the brussels i regulation has brought greater protection to workers in their relationship with the employer, particularly when they are in a cross-border context. with this regulation we intend to improve the previous one, in particular with regard to the most vulnerable part and the deepening of legal issues. this is the only way to ensure greater protection for the worker in the event of a labour dispute. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this own-initiative report aims to improve private international law: rules of jurisdiction applicable in the field of employment are primarily intended to protect the worker, the weakest party in the employment relationship. the rapporteur proposes amendments to the brussels i legislation on labour law rules, suggesting the creation of a forum for industrial action disputes, in accordance with the rome ii regulation, in the place where the industrial action is or will be brought and proposes that in cases where the employee sues the employer, a recast of the reserve clause where there is no usual place of work, so that it is agreed that the place of work is the place from which the employee received day-to-day instructions. in view of the unanimity in the vote on this report in the committee responsible, i voted in favour of these proposals.
in writing. − the union's competence in terms of labour rights is limited to crossborder issues, in particular the decision of the court which is to rule on a given dispute. however, although this competence is exclusive to the member states, this own-initiative report invites the commission to take account of a number of improvements in the next amendment to the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the proposals concern collective actions, individual contracts of employment, proceedings against the employer and proceedings against the employee.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against discrimination based on sex. we consider that this report contains correct proposals, of which we emphasize: - with regard to individual employment contracts, that jurisdiction should be ensured to the courts of the member state which has the closest connection with the employment relationship; - the removal of the shopping forum; - the possibility of choosing a forum not because it is the most appropriate for adjudicating the dispute, but because the laws which that court will use will lead to the application of the law which is most favourable to the person who brought the action. we believe that this report is intended to protect workers in disputes with their employers.
in writing. - i support this report, as it is of paramount importance to ensure that the maritime labour convention and the highest standards of the european union are applied to seafarers. ships shall have on-board procedures which allow seafarers to complain about shortcomings in european union legislation. such complaints shall be handled in a fair, effective and appropriate manner. in addition, each member state shall establish effective inspection and enforcement of maritime working conditions to ensure that the living and working conditions of seafarers on board ships meet international standards.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention adopted by the international labour organisation applies to international maritime transport and covers matters essential to ensuring decent working and living conditions on board ships, and also provides for procedures for the application of these provisions. the convention can be considered the first maritime labour code for over 1.2 million seafarers as well as for ship-owners and maritime nations worldwide. the maritime labour convention is a valuable contribution to the objective of creating a level playing field in the maritime sector worldwide by setting common minimum standards for all flags and for all seafarers. i therefore supported this report which proposes to improve directive 2009/13/ec and ensure that it is given the appropriate means of implementation in the european union. the proposed amendments aim to strengthen the responsibility of member states in the exercise of their flag state powers.
in writing. − the aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) 2006 relating to flag state control should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific way. one of the major advantages of incorporating the ctm into eu law is that it will give it a much stronger capacity to monitor the community area, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which will further strengthen compliance with the law. the eu provisions on flag state control should more closely reflect what the mlc specifically and explicitly provides to avoid divergent interpretations by member states which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of inspection of vessels flying flags of member states, which would ensure that the flags of all eu member states have a good status, i.e. that they are not blacklisted and that the system of flag state audits provided for by the international maritime organisation is incorporated into community law.
in writing. − i agree that the aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) 2006 relating to flag state control should be enshrined in union law in a more detailed and specific way. one of the major advantages of incorporating the ctm into eu law is that it gives it a much stronger capacity to monitor the community area, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which further strengthens compliance with the law.
in writing. the report by mr berès is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the responsibilities of the flag state for the enforcement of council directive 2009/13/ec implementing the agreement concluded by the european community shipowners' association (ecsa) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on the maritime labour convention, 2006, and amending directive 1999/63/ec. i agree with the rapporteur that the aspects of the maritime labour convention 2006 relating to control by the flag state should be enshrined in community law in a more detailed and specific way. the eu provisions on flag state control should reflect what the mlc specifies in order to avoid divergent interpretations by member states which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation in 2006. this convention applies to international maritime transport and covers matters such as the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers' work on board a ship to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships. the eu sees the mlc as a valuable contribution to the objective of creating a level playing field in the global maritime sector by setting common minimum standards for all flags and for all seafarers. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the report, which we supported, sets out the responsibilities of flag states in areas such as: each state must assume its responsibilities towards ships flying its flag; authorization of recognized organizations to carry out inspection tasks; maritime labour certificate and declaration of conformity of maritime labour; inspection and enforcement; on-board complaint procedures.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation (ilo) in 2006. it applies to international maritime transport and covers such essential matters as the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers to work on board a ship, working conditions, accommodation, leisure, food and table service, health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection and their observance and enforcement, in order to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships, and also provides for procedures for the application of these provisions. the convention can be considered the first maritime labour code for over 1.2 million seafarers worldwide, as well as for ship owners and maritime nations worldwide. the mlc, adopted in 2006, provides for general rights and protection at work for all seafarers, regardless of their nationality and the flag of the ship.
in writing. − this report calls on the member states of the european union to assume their responsibilities as flag states more effectively and consistently. the rapporteur believes that the aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) of 2006, which aim to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships on international voyages or between foreign ports, should be enshrined in community law in greater detail and specificity. eu provisions on control by the state under whose legislation the ship is registered or licensed should reflect more closely the aspects of the ctm in order to avoid divergent interpretations by member states, as such divergences could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) provides for the general rights of maritime workers and covers essential issues in the maritime sector, such as the minimum requirements to be observed for the work of those on board a ship (title 1 of the mlc), working conditions (title 2 of the mlc), accommodation, leisure, food and table service (title 3 of the mlc), health protection, social security, medical care and welfare (title 4 of the mlc) and their observance and application (title 5 of the mlc), to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships. this report indicates that the aspects of the ctm relating to control by the flag state should be enshrined in community law in a more specific and detailed way. this will strengthen law enforcement as it gives the mlc a greater oversight capacity in the community space. the states are thus directly responsible for the ships flying their flag. by implementing ctm in all european ports, with the changes to the responsibilities of the flag state, we are ensuring a level playing field for the global maritime sector, which employs over 1.2 million people.
in writing. − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation in 2006. this convention applies to international maritime transport and covers matters essential to the lives of seafarers such as the minimum conditions to be observed for seafarers' work on board a ship (concerning working conditions, accommodation, leisure, food and table service, health protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection) to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships. the objective of this convention is to create a level playing field in the maritime sector worldwide by establishing common minimum standards for all flags and for all seafarers. the rapporteur believes that one of the major advantages of incorporating the ctm into eu legislation is that it will give the commission a much stronger capacity to monitor the community, for example in infringement proceedings within the european union itself, which will further strengthen compliance with the law. states should assume their responsibilities in relation to ships flying their flag. we have voted in favour of this convention because we believe it protects this sector of the profession, which is often isolated and unprotected.
mr president, i welcome the adoption of this proposal because we are faced with legislation of the utmost importance in the essential control of smoking and in the present and future improvement of the public health of millions of europeans affected by the disease and the many hundreds of thousands who die prematurely every year as a result of tobacco use. reducing tobacco consumption, especially among young people, is an imperative that no responsible person can fail to pursue and where no greater interest can be evoked to override it. that is why we welcome this directive in all its aspects which genuinely defend health. however, there were aspects where the proposal for a directive went too far. i therefore thank the socialist group for having made an exception by submitting to the plenary alone my amendment to safeguard the unfair and unjustified discrimination against azorean tobacco, for reasons having nothing to do with health, and i welcome the fact that parliament has corrected this injustice with its approval of azorean tobacco.
in writing. - i approve this report, with the amendments made, considering that the commission proposal required that 75% of the outer area of tobacco packages be occupied by health warnings. but it went further, requiring that the size of these warnings should not be less than 64 mm high and 55 mm wide, thus endangering the production of the two tobacco factories in the azores, which produce 30% and 50% of this type of cigarettes and directly employ 133 workers. i welcome the results achieved in that the 64 mm and 55 mm dimensions of the warnings have been removed, which means that the european parliament is in favour of continuing to use regular sized packages manufactured in the azores. reducing tobacco consumption, especially among young people, is an imperative which no responsible person can fail to pursue and which no major interest can evoke to override. i therefore want to safeguard the non-discrimination of azorean tobacco.
in writing. - smoking remains the leading cause of preventable deaths in the eu, killing around 700 000 people a year. according to commission figures, 70% of smokers start smoking before the age of 18. according to the same source, public health expenditure in the eu for the treatment of tobacco-related diseases amounts to some eur 25.3 billion per year. the measures taken by the eu over the years to combat smoking have helped to reduce the number of smokers in the european area from 40% in 2002 (in the eu15) to 28% in 2012 (in the eu27). i welcome the amendments adopted today to the proposal for a revision of the tobacco products directive because i believe that they help to dissuade young people from smoking.
in writing. the report by mrs mcavan deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. smoking is still the biggest cause of preventable deaths in the eu with around 700 000 deaths a year. the number of smokers in the eu has fallen to one in four europeans, but the worrying fact is that 94% of smokers have become addicted before the age of 25 and 70% before the age of 18. for this reason, i would like to stress the main objective of the updated rules: to make smoking less attractive to young people by taking a determined approach to all the factors that contribute to smoking initiation. this directive does not aim to impose a ban on smoking. i therefore agree with most of the measures that contribute to this, such as the space for health warnings on tobacco packages, the progressive ban on the use of flavourings and smaller packages, and the regulation at european level of nicotine-containing products, which are now covered by the current directive.
in writing. - while the aim of this directive is to protect health and prevent more young people from starting to smoke, it also has the objective of improving the functioning of the internal market, which is worthy of note. the proposal adopted provides for more restrictive measures than directive 2001/37/ec as regards the dimensions of health warnings on cigarette packages, which must cover 65% of the sides of the pack. we note as positive the fact that the final result for portuguese brands of regular tobacco, in terms of the size of the warnings, respects their continuity and national production. despite the positive steps taken in banning distinctive flavours (fruit, menthol, chocolate, etc.) in cigarettes and slim cigarettes, the industry's interest prevailed in the objective of protecting public health and preventing young people from taking up smoking. we welcome the inclusion of a proposal from us which affirms the responsibility of the member states for the protection and prevention of public health, providing assurances, public monitoring and counselling of young people, and public campaigns for tobacco prevention, particularly in schools, and considering that universal and free access to tobacco cessation counselling and treatment is essential.
in writing. − this new directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products is a revision of the 2001 directive, updating it with new scientific findings, advances in prevention, the impact of tobacco dependence on public health and taking into account new market developments. the new directive focuses on prevention, particularly among young people, as the latest studies indicate that 94% of smokers start smoking before the age of 25. the new prevention measures are not prohibitory in nature and are not framed in such a way that existing smokers cannot continue to smoke. the new directive ensures that current smokers are covered by general public health measures; however, the new measures focus on a significant increase in preventive action to combat the high number of deaths caused by tobacco, as well as the financial burden it imposes on health systems. we voted in favour of the new directive.
in writing. - the tobacco industry is undoubtedly very important for the eu economy. however, we must also be concerned about the public health issue. tobacco-related deaths in the eu are increasing. i think this directive is balanced in terms of increasing the rules that alert smokers, as well as new smokers, to the harmful effects of tobacco.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mcavan report on tobacco, despite some dilution in the plenary vote, because the commission's legislative proposal represents an important step forward in the fight against tobacco addiction. measures such as increasing the size of the warning on the harmful effects of tobacco or banning additives that may make tobacco consumption more desirable may hinder or attenuate the attraction of new consumers, especially among young people. the adoption of this legislative initiative is not only a victory over the powerful tobacco lobbies - the tobacco producing countries and multinational companies - but also and above all a victory for the health systems of the member states of the european union, which are being costed impressive sums by tobacco-related diseases. individual freedom to smoke remains, but now more informed and less constrained by the interests of the tobacco industry.
in writing. − this new directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products is a revision of the 2001 directive, updating it with new scientific findings, advances in prevention, the impact of tobacco dependence on public health and taking into account new market developments. the new directive focuses on prevention, particularly among young people, as the latest studies indicate that 94% of smokers start smoking before the age of 25. the new prevention measures are not prohibitory in nature and are not framed in such a way that existing smokers cannot continue to smoke. the new directive ensures that current smokers are covered by general public health measures; however, the new measures focus on a significant increase in preventive action to combat the high number of deaths caused by tobacco, as well as the financial burden it imposes on health systems. we voted in favour of the new directive.
in writing. the general objective of this proposal for a directive is to improve the functioning of the internal market in the union as regards the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. i voted in favour of the document with some amendments tabled by the ppe group to which i belong, which i consider appropriate in order to update areas already harmonised in some member states and balanced in terms of removing remaining obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the present protocol between the eu and mauritania is onerous, taking into account the fishing opportunities and technical conditions it imposes, and therefore not profitable. it does not benefit the european union, since the conditions for exploiting the fishing opportunities obtained impede its profitability, as is illustrated by the absence of boats in the waters, and it does not benefit mauritania either, since the absence of the eu fleet will deprive the country of a large part of the financial compensation, not to mention the wealth generated in the local coastal population as a result of the activity of the vessels, the salaries of the seamen, etc. the revision of the fishing conditions should be carried out by not ratifying the agreement because of insufficient fishing opportunities and abusive technical conditions, so that a new agreement could be negotiated, and not through the joint committee after the entry into force of the protocol and the payment. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following companies:
in writing. - i welcome the new protocol to the eu-mauritania fisheries agreement, which grants access to mauritanian waters to a hundred vessels from 12 member states, including portugal (spain, portugal, italy, greece, france, the united kingdom, malta, the netherlands, germany, poland, lithuania and latvia). the protocol assumes an agreement of €110 million per year, of which €70 million will be paid by the eu (67 million for access to resources and €3 million for sectoral support) and the remaining €40 million will be paid by industry in the form of fees for fishing licences. thank you very much.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu-mauritania fisheries protocol, as it is the most important fisheries protocol for the eu in terms of volume, variety of fishery products and financial compensation, and because it introduces clauses that will strengthen the sustainability of this agreement, in particular the obligation to land catches in mauritanian ports or the hiring of local seamen.
in writing. - despite the improvements that will inevitably be made in the future, i support the maintenance of the european union's fisheries agreement with mauritania and i hope that it will not only remain in force but also improve fishing opportunities for european companies operating in its waters.
in writing. the report by mr gabriel mato adrover deals with the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities between the eu and mauritania and the financial contribution. mauritania is a nomadic country which, despite having some of the richest waters in the world, has no tradition in the field of fishing. the absence of a national fishing fleet and the lack of economic resources and political will have led mauritania to prefer to cede the exploitation of its resources to foreign fleets, including the eu. the agreement grants access to some 100 vessels from 12 member states: spain, italy, portugal, greece, france, the united kingdom, malta, the netherlands, germany, poland, lithuania and latvia.
in writing. − this is the most important fisheries agreement signed by the eu in terms of fish volume, product diversity and financial amounts involved. several provisions of this new agreement correspond to the fair and legitimate exercise of mauritania's sovereignty over its resources and the fair and legitimate defence of its interests. the agreement grants access to mauritania's waters to fleets from 12 countries, including portugal, and includes fishing opportunities for pelagic, demersal, fish, crustaceans and tuna. for cephalopods (dust), fishing opportunities were set at zero, as mauritania considered that at present there is no surplus (in relation to the fisheries of the local fleet) to allow the granting of fishing opportunities in this category. this will be particularly damaging to some fleets. in negotiating such agreements, the european commission must take account of the diversity of the fleets using them, their problems and specificities, their just and legitimate hopes and expectations. i didn't always know how to do that. this agreement is an example of that. where such negotiations result in clear damage to some fleets, the european commission should consider measures to mitigate their negative impacts. this is particularly important in the current situation of deep economic and social crisis affecting the sector.
in writing. - mauritania is a nomadic country which, despite having some of the richest waters in the world, has no tradition in the fishing industry. the mauritanian authorities have therefore decided to cede the exploitation of their resources to foreign fleets, including the eu. in economic terms, fisheries account for 50% of export earnings and 29% of gnp. export and processing companies are essentially mixed enterprises. fisheries also generates a high number of jobs, accounting for 36% of jobs in the modern sector. in its relations with mauritania, the eu should help the economic and social development of the country so that there are adequate conditions for the promotion of foreign investment. the eu should also provide sectoral support so that mauritania can manage its fishing activities with its resources in a sustainable way and combat illegal fishing by applying the principles of good governance and respecting international regulations on the law of the sea. this is clearly the most important fisheries agreement for the eu in terms of volume, variety of fishery products and financial consideration. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament instructs its president to inform the council that the protocol agreed between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania cannot be concluded. the general opinion of the national authorities and the fishing industry is that this protocol, taking into account the fishing opportunities and technical conditions it imposes, is burdensome, as evidenced by the absence of applications for provisional licences for exploiting fishery resources in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1006/2008. the preferential treatment of the exploitation of surpluses and the priority access of the eu fleet to mauritanian waters, as stipulated in the fisheries protocol with mauritania, have not been respected. the eu-mauritania joint committee on fisheries agreements for 2012-2014 therefore agreed to the modification of two items after two days of negotiations. the first legislative proposal provided an unsatisfactory framework for the european fleet, which supported the negative vote of the committee on fisheries, and only now, after the technical renegotiation achieved, can i entrust my vote in favour to the most important eu fisheries agreement with a third country in terms of catch volume, variety of fishery products and financial compensation.
in writing. − in its relations with mauritania, the eu should help the economic and social development of the country so that there are adequate conditions for the promotion of foreign investment. the eu should also provide support to ensure that mauritania manages its fishing activities on its resources in a sustainable manner and is able to combat illegal fishing. much of the eu's aid can be implemented directly, through an appropriate fisheries agreement and protocol, which is why i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the prevention of gender selection requires a strong commitment from the commission, member states, civil society and international agencies and will have to be seen as a crime and a serious violation of human rights. member states shall endeavour to prohibit gender selection practices. there is a clear need to examine the causes of the problem, guidelines should be established by medical staff, support and education measures for girls and women should be given priority, as well as health care and access to work for women without the consent of their husbands.
in writing. − genocide refers to the deliberate killing of persons, including fetuses, of a particular sex, on the basis of gender. it can occur before or after birth. the main cause of this phenomenon is the preference for male children in some societies. however, genocide is a worldwide problem that is not confined to certain countries. gender discrimination against girls and women is unacceptable and constitutes a violation of human rights. the consequences of this barbarity reveal an increase in the number of missing women in the world population to almost 200 million. the impacts are also economic and social. the fight against genocide requires states to support the promotion of an educational and social environment in which women and men, girls and boys are treated equally, by strengthening women's opportunities to access a full and equal partnership in society. on the other hand, states should develop and promote effective legislation and policy frameworks that address the root causes of gender inequalities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - genocide is a worldwide problem. the main cause of this phenomenon is a preference for male children, deeply rooted in cultural and economic experiences and accentuated by declining fertility and pressures to have smaller families. a persistent culture of male-child preference intensifies ongoing gender inequalities and stereotypes against women, preventing them from fully enjoying equal treatment in employment and/or educational opportunities in many countries. appropriate legislation is an essential step to regulate sex selection and sex selection practices. unbalanced gender ratios are unacceptable manifestations of gender discrimination against girls and women and a violation of human rights. measures to support girls and women should be implemented that promote an educational and social environment in which women and men, girls and boys are treated equally, enhancing women's opportunities to access a full and equal partnership in society. states should promote effective legislation addressing the root causes of gender-selective inequalities.
in writing. - the systematic, deliberate and selective mass murder of women continues to be a growing problem in several countries. according to recent united nations figures, almost 200 million women are victims of genocide. unfortunately, the culture of male-child preference continues to prevail in some societies, in many cases accompanied by other democratic deficits in terms of access to education, health, employment, basic sanitation, social assistance, etc. genocide is undoubtedly a serious crime, constituting a serious violation of human rights, and it is therefore necessary and urgent to take an appropriate approach in order to eradicate all the root causes that give rise to this patriarchal culture. it is unacceptable that in the 21st century this kind of behaviour still exists, based on a huge democratic and legislative deficit, with serious legal, ethical, social and human rights consequences. in this context, it is essential to introduce measures to promote a profound change in attitudes and attitudes towards women, with particular attention to the cultural and socioeconomic causes of the phenomenon, and to ensure the criminalisation of such behaviour in all societies and more effective monitoring of the application of existing legislation.
in writing. - genocide is the deliberate killing of one of the sexes, and girls continue to be the target of this inhuman practice of sex selection, which takes various forms such as predetermination of the sex of the baby, selective abortion and the abandonment or killing of female babies. since this practice, contrary to what is thought, is not exclusive to asia, but occurs a bit all over the globe, it is essential that society takes up genocide as a priority to combat and find appropriate solutions that allow to protect female fetuses and babies from conception until their natural death, preventing practices of gender selection that are inhuman and degrading to any civilized society.
in writing. the report by mr antigoni papadopoulou deals with genocide. we cannot accept genocide, that is to say the deliberate killing of people of a certain sex because of their gender. this is a serious violation of human rights and must be treated as a global problem. recent estimates of the sex ratio reveal an increase in the number of missing women in the world population to almost 200 million. this is a significant increase since 1990, when the figure was 100 million. sex selection can occur before pregnancy is discovered, during pregnancy through prenatal sex identification and selective abortion, or after birth through infanticide or abandonment of the child. although sex selection is sometimes used to balance the family, it more often takes the form of a systematic preference for boys, because some cultural traditions consider daughters to be a burden. a culture of male preference intensifies gender inequalities and stereotypes against women, preventing them from fully enjoying equal treatment in employment in many countries.
in writing. − genocide refers to the systematic, deliberate and gender-selective mass murder of persons of a particular sex. despite legislation against sex selection practices, girls are disproportionately subjected to ruthless sex discrimination. it is estimated that since the early 1990s, more than 100 million women have been missing from the world population due to genocide. according to recent estimates, this number has risen to nearly 200 million. genocide is a global issue, not just an asian one. the practice of genocide is deeply rooted in cultures where there is a preference for male children; the idea of male-preference children is deeply rooted and part of a long-standing tradition that concerns issues such as inheritance of property, the dependence of aging parents on children for reasons of economic support and security, among others. it is clear that women's emancipation, development and social progress will contribute to the promotion of the social and behavioural change needed to eradicate, in the long term, sex selection practices. the report makes recommendations, which are generally positive and appropriate, to help combat this phenomenon. we voted in favour.
in writing. - according to studies in 1990, 100 million women were 'missing' in the world. today, that number may have doubled. this is often the case for cultural reasons. a great effort is needed to combat this situation, which in the long run will bring enormous problems of various kinds. the adoption of this report is a first step towards raising awareness of this serious problem affecting women worldwide.
in writing. - the main aim of this proposal is to create policies to prevent sex selection and to combat the deliberate killing of persons of a certain sex for the same reason. this requires a strong commitment and sustained and concerted efforts by the commission, governments, civil society, international agencies and all those working towards the goal of gender equality and, more broadly, respect for human dignity, which is universal and unconditional. this report proposes policies to combat this phenomenon, including through the collection of reliable statistical data on sex-to-birth ratios, infant mortality, and sex selection practices identified at micronational, subnational and national levels, starting with small groups and promoting quantitative and qualitative analyses to address causes and consequences at subnational level. such data are necessary to provide a sound data base for policy-making and for the adoption of carefully planned and coordinated measures. i therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole, rejecting all proposals which, directly or indirectly, devalue human prenatal life.
in writing. - parliament was asked to approve the report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality which calls on the commission to work hard to prevent a sex selection bias, in which the female sex is the target of negative sex discrimination, in the face of the preference given to male children - a preference which occurs in issues such as inheritance of property, the dependence of elderly parents on children, the continuity of the family name and lineage, as well as the desire to save on the cost of dowries given to daughters. genocide is thus more deeply rooted in patriarchal societies, which, by giving in to prejudice and stereotypes, lead to democratic deficits and gender inequalities, and therefore to discrimination against women. the impact of sex selection practices is felt at the economic and social level, with imbalances in long-term stability leading to increases in global crime, frustration, trafficking violence, sexual slavery, exploitation, prostitution and rape. in this context, and moved by the estimate in the report of 200 million women lost to sexual discrimination, i expressed in the house my conviction in the common values of pluralism and non-discrimination.
in writing. − genocide is a gender-neutral term referring to deliberate killing based on gender. this is a problem where regardless of geographical location, girls continue to be discriminated against in terms of the predetermination of the sex of the baby. this own-initiative report focuses mainly on the causes, trends, consequences and ways of combating means of prenatal gender selection. selective abortion is an offence against the human rights of the mother and the unborn child and as such is a matter of concern worldwide. recommendations are made for states and their governments to be more active in the protection of human rights, developing measures that promote profound changes in mentalities and attitudes against women. governments are also encouraged to criminalize genocide, to create a legislative package against gender-selective practices, as well as social protection measures, thus advocating gender equality.
in writing. - genocide, which, as we know, affects women in particular, is a problem usually associated with extremely unequal societies and countries excluded from the centres of world capitalism, where many communities have faced harsh living conditions. obviously, you should not apologize to your attacker. but what are the underlying causes that lead families to consider that a child must be born because it is useful for work? we live in a world of enormous inequalities, inequalities to which the eu has contributed a great deal through its economic policy, its numerous free trade agreements and its militaristic approach. the second point is that there is no way of combating genocide without ensuring that women have a choice, without ensuring that public services provide all the information and support they need, without ensuring their economic independence. the so-called democracy which the eu is putting into practice is the opposite of these guarantees and women's rights. we voted in favour of this report. we do not, however, agree that the eeas should be given alleged responsibility for the fight against genocide. as we know, the eeas is an organization whose purpose is to intervene and politically control the destinies of sovereign peoples. we don't recognize any credibility in him.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that the regions of the european union will be doubly affected by the financial crisis in their countries and by budgetary restrictions at the level of the european union. in order to safeguard the opportunities for future growth, i support all possible flexibility for all cofinancing policies and programmes. we must not forget that in member states which are currently undergoing severe austerity, the subnational powers are the most affected, regardless of whether or not they have been judicious in their regional economic and financial governance. local and regional authorities are increasingly facing problems in their ability to secure productive investment as well as the services themselves to citizens. the great fall in their revenues, as national governments reduce their transfers and ask regional and local authorities to contribute to the austerity plan, is reflected in a greater demand for effective social services, aggravated by the economic and social crisis of the populations. the european union must help all its citizens.
in writing. − the current crisis places significant constraints on public finances in the member states. it is important to put forward concrete proposals to make national co-financing of eu development expenditure as flexible as possible in the context of strict implementation of the stability and growth pact. given the ongoing negotiations on future cohesion policy, on the mff and, more generally, the debate on the future economic and monetary union, it is of paramount political importance for parliament to identify and recommend viable options for national, regional and local authorities to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is necessary to exploit all margins of flexibility in the framework of macroeconomic governance to allow for adequate investment, in particular by reconsidering the relationship between the stability and growth pact and productive public investment.
in writing. − the right balance needs to be struck between the obligation of each member state to comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact and the capacity of regional and local authorities to deliver on the europe 2020 objectives of growth and sustainable employment. the current economic crisis has made it difficult and restricted the implementation of major policy options at regional and local level that can have a long-term impact on growth and employment. it is therefore urgent to strike a balance between the obligation to comply with the stability and growth pact and the need to implement strategies geared towards sustainable growth.
in writing. - the report by mrs erminia mazzoni looks at the budgetary constraints for regional and local authorities in relation to eu structural funds expenditure in the member states. the current crisis places significant constraints on the public finances of the member states. i think it is important to put forward concrete proposals to make national co-financing of eu development expenditure as flexible as possible in the context of strict application of the stability and growth pact. at the same time, it is important to analyse the extent to which the current crisis has affected the ability of subnational authorities to meet the growth and employment targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy. i agree that it is of paramount political importance to identify and recommend viable options for national, regional and local authorities to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - this report points to the weakening of social, economic and territorial cohesion, the increase in unemployment and regional disparities, the decline in gdp and the increase in deficits at national, regional and local level as a result of the crisis. it recognises that the structural funds are essential to promote convergence, employment, development and social progress. but it forgets that the solutions so far suggested, particularly by the eu and the imf, such as budgetary consolidation, which in the member states translates into an assault on public assets and the incomes of workers, pensioners and pensioners, into violent measures for families and young people, have not only not solved any of the problems identified above but have aggravated and deepened the divergences between regions and between countries. the document points out the problems but chokes on the solutions. it is noted that this report - which contains unprecedented and surprising critical remarks on austerity - is also endorsed by many of those who have advocated and made it possible for austerity to be implemented. finally, the contradictions and hypocrisy of those who vote for an own-initiative report like this because they know from the outset that its practical effect is nil... it is quite different when you are voting on legislative reports with concrete practical effect.
in writing. − the current crisis places significant constraints on public finances in the member states. moreover, in the context of the ongoing financial and economic crisis, subnational (regional and local) authorities are facing increasingly difficult challenges in their ability to secure productive investment. on the one hand, they are seeing a sharp decline in their revenues as central governments cut transfers and ask local and regional governments to contribute to austerity, and on the other hand, they are having to provide increasingly demanding social services due to the crisis, which puts additional pressure on their public budgets.
in writing. − the global and economic crisis has weakened the eu's social, economic and territorial cohesion, causing an increase in unemployment levels, a serious deterioration in gdp growth and a deepening of regional disparities and budget deficits at national, regional and local level, affecting the ability of subnational authorities to meet the europe 2020 growth and employment objectives. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. my vote in favour calls on the commission and the member states to exploit the flexibility in the preventive part of the stability and growth pact to strike a balance between public investment needs and the objectives of budgetary discipline, and at the same time calls on the commission to exclude public expenditure incurred by the member states in the context of the co-financing of programmes supported by the structural funds from the definition of structural deficits in the ecsc entirely.
in writing. − the current crisis places significant constraints on public finances in the member states, while regional and local authorities increasingly face difficult challenges in their capacity to secure productive investment. in this particular context, the regi commission's draft report, to which i belong, shows that it is important to have concrete proposals to make national co-financing of eu development expenditure as flexible as possible in the context of strict application of the stability and growth pact, which is why i voted in favour of the document, which safeguards the position of the outermost regions.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that a future fisheries strategy must also be linked to the future of the cotonou agreement. most of the countries in the western and central pacific are island countries which are part of the acp group of countries. in view of the inevitable and possible evolution of the agreement, this fisheries strategy should be incorporated into the new approach to eu relations with these countries. most of the possible relationship schemes currently under discussion are geared towards a regional approach. the eu's main objectives are to promote socioeconomic development in the region through climate change adaptation and external trade policy, and in turn to promote the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources through a transparent management system. i recommend the establishment of a long-term fisheries strategy in the western and central pacific area, taking into account the need to coordinate european policies in order to enhance potential synergies, achieve a multiplier effect, maximise the beneficial effects for both pacific states and eu states and increase the visibility of the eu in this region.
in writing. - this report on the fisheries strategy for the western and central pacific is designed to maximise the benefits of interventions for both the pacific states and the european union. economic interest and the lack of adequate controls have led to the emergence of a major focus of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. a regional strategy between the european union and the pacific countries is needed, in the form of an agreement setting out the modalities of access for the european union fleet, through bilateral fisheries cooperation agreements with the countries concerned. secondly, to establish a governance system based on transparency, which guarantees the fight against illegal fishing, specifying the instruments to be applied.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a comprehensive eu strategy for fisheries in the pacific region, as it puts forward proposals for a long-term fisheries strategy in the western and central pacific area, which takes into account the need to coordinate policies in order to enhance synergies and benefits for both the pacific states and the eu states.
in writing. − the pacific is extremely rich in fish and is the largest fishing area for highly migratory species, and in particular tuna, with 80% of the world's catch. the establishment of a long-term strategy for the western and central pacific could allow for greater coordination of union policies. this will increase potential synergies, thus achieving a multiplier effect of mutual benefit for the pacific states and the union countries and increasing the union's visibility in the region. the future fisheries strategy must not ignore the partners in the cotonou agreement. in view of the potential amendments to this agreement, this fisheries strategy should be an integral part of a new approach of the union to relations with these countries. it is recalled that during the period 2006-2011, the union was the second largest donor of development aid in the western and central pacific region , after australia.
in writing. the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez deals with the eu's overall strategy for fisheries in the pacific region. it takes into account the need to coordinate european policies in order to enhance potential synergies, achieve a multiplier effect, maximise the beneficial effects for both pacific states and eu states and increase the visibility of the eu in the region. this report focuses particularly on the western and central pacific, which is very rich in fisheries resources. i therefore agree that, in the framework of future post-cotonou relations with the acp-pacific countries, the fisheries strategy should have a regional approach that strengthens the position and role of the eu in the western and central pacific region;
in writing. - this own-initiative report calls for a long-term eu strategy for fisheries in the western and central pacific. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. we are talking about a region rich in fishery resources, dominated by island states, acp countries, and where illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing is rife. we broadly agree with some of the guidelines expressed in the report, such as the increase in the appropriations for assistance to the fisheries sector of the countries in the region under the european development fund, the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and the promotion of sustainable fishing in the region. however, the strategy in question is based on an unconcealed ambition to maintain relations of inequality and dependence, as is shown by the subordination of the strategy to the context of the epas (the so-called economic partnership agreements). these are, as is well known, free trade agreements which the eu has been putting strong pressure on a number of acp countries and regional blocs to sign. we have tabled amendments to delete all references to epas. they were rejected. we reject the report.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to recommend the establishment of a long-term fisheries strategy in the western and central pacific, taking into account the need to coordinate european policies in order to enhance potential synergies, achieve a multiplier effect, maximise the beneficial effects for both pacific states and eu states and increase the eu's visibility in the region. the pacific has a very high fishery value, being the largest producer of highly migratory species. with this report we seek to develop the countries associated with this eu comprehensive strategy for fisheries in the pacific region.
in writing. − this own-initiative report aims to recommend the need for a long-term fisheries strategy in the western and central pacific that reflects the necessary coordination of european policies, enhances potential synergies to achieve a multiplier effect and increase europe's visibility in the region, and maximises the benefits for eu member states and pacific states. in this respect, it is worth noting the enormous importance of the pacific region in terms of fishery resources, in particular tuna species, which account for around 80% of the world's catches, and which is why the western and central pacific tuna-fishing fleet has increased significantly, reaching currently around 280 vessels. on the contrary, the eu fleet in this region is limited to only four trawlers, representing about 2% of the total fleet and 7% of the total trawl catches. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the measures proposed by the rapporteur are intended to consolidate the strategic presence of the eu fleet in this pacific region and to promote the defence of the interests of european operators interested in developing fishing activities in this region of the world.
in writing. - this own-initiative report aims to establish a strategy for fisheries in the western and central pacific. this area is mainly made up of acp countries, which have a very rich fishery value, and it is intended that there should be coordination of the fisheries policies in the union with those in the pacific, with the aim of providing a sustainable development of this sector, while increasing the union fleet in these waters. in parallel, it is important that the amendment to the cotonou agreement, which governs eu-acp relations, takes account of this strategy and the need for lasting and transparent solutions for the sustainable promotion of fisheries resources. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it an excellent document which identifies and enumerates the challenges facing the union in terms of development aid and trade.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that in developing countries, fisheries are a sector that generates wealth and employment, as well as a source of protein for the population. i note that conflicts over maritime zones are mainly due to the exploitation of marine resources which have become limited or even scarce, in particular due to the over-exploitation and unsustainable use of part of them in the mediterranean and the black sea, and stress that for several coastal developing countries, marine resources are a fundamental basis for their future development and food security. i stress that the resolution of disputes concerning the delimitation of maritime boundaries and the establishment of fisheries protection zones must take place in full accordance with international law. i also stress the need for the european union to continue to support coastal developing countries in implementing sustainable fisheries management plans in their territorial waters and in effectively combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. − by 2025, urban development in the mediterranean could reach a level of 60% with one third of the population concentrated in coastal areas, doubling the needs for water and fisheries resources. 75% of the fish stocks in the mediterranean sea are overexploited. the legal regimes governing vessels' access to national fisheries vary according to the country of origin of the vessel. an essential aspect of good ocean governance is the peaceful resolution of maritime disputes and the delimitation of maritime boundaries. considers that maritime management in the mediterranean and black sea requires a higher level of political cohesion and cooperation among the coastal countries concerned; stresses the important role of bilateral cooperation and international agreements, given that most black sea and mediterranean countries are not part of the eu and are therefore not obliged to respect eu legislation. the eu must use its diplomatic resources to promote dialogue between member states and third countries to ensure that they respect the principles of the eu's common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on fishing restrictions and jurisdictional waters in the mediterranean and black sea conflict resolution, because it proposes to improve cooperation with neighbouring countries and to strengthen the management of shared stocks. the conclusion of cooperation agreements on sustainable fisheries is also encouraged, in order to ensure the protection of european coastal and territorial waters, the exclusive economic zones and the conservation of marine resources.
in writing. − the specific characteristics of the mediterranean and the black sea, as well as the increased competition for marine resources, have given rise to regional tensions and disputes between coastal states over maritime areas. it is urgent to seek to reduce their impact and to promote joint and responsible management of these resources through a regional approach to the conservation and fishing of species in these waters that takes into account the dangers arising from the concentration of populations in coastal areas, increased maritime traffic and over-exploitation of resources. in order to keep up to date, i quote from arturo pérez-reverte's column of 3 may 2010: for años me crucé en el mar (...) con barcos (...) brought to the slaughter. and so, by matching the boils with european legislation, by locating the tuna with airplanes, by surrounding it with ultra-modern technology, by searching ever further afield, in sicily and the libyan coast, and by taking it in cages to the places of concentration and slaughter, cuatro linces have become made of gold, while the bluefin tuna that for centuries has been crossing the strait of gibraltar, a silver and red treasure that has sprinkled its ancestral lake in our cupboards with greek, latin and arabic words, is extinguished without remedy.
in writing. - the report by mr nikolaos salavrakos deals with fishing restrictions and jurisdictional waters in the mediterranean and black seas; urban development in the mediterranean could reach 60% by 2025, with one third of the population concentrated in coastal areas, thus doubling the needs for water and fisheries resources. the mediterranean and black seas have particular characteristics in terms of oceanography, fisheries, environment and socioeconomy. the report calls on all coastal states to step up their efforts to phase out overfishing in the mediterranean and black seas, as the depletion of stocks will increase the potential for conflict in this region.
in writing. − this report calls for more efforts at regional, national and eu level to regulate access to resources in mediterranean and black sea waters. the rapporteur believes that existing disputes can be resolved with existing legislation, including at international level, by encouraging bilateral and international agreements, given that most mediterranean and black sea countries are not part of the eu and are therefore not subject to their legislation. it also advocates the establishment of exclusive economic zones and protected areas, in which conservation and management measures are adopted, in order to promote sustainable fishing and facilitate the control of fishing activities by combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. while generally agreeing with some of the measures and guidelines proposed, we disagree with others, such as advocating greater use of eu resources (diplomatic and other) in intervening with the countries of the region and in the territorial waters, continental shelf and maritime resources themselves.
in writing. − urban development in the mediterranean will be huge by 2015, with one third of the population concentrated in coastal areas, thus doubling the needs for water and fisheries resources. the mediterranean sea carries 30% of the world's maritime traffic. the mediterranean and black seas have particular characteristics in terms of oceanography, fisheries, environment and socioeconomy. the mediterranean and black sea basins have a very slow rate of water renewal (around 80 to 90 years and 140 years respectively) and are therefore extremely vulnerable to marine pollution. the increase in competition for declining fish stocks and marine resources is a cause for concern, leading to regional tensions and possible disputes between coastal states over maritime zones. efforts at regional, national and eu level to strengthen the regulation of access to resources are therefore needed. we must step up efforts to phase out overfishing in the mediterranean and the black sea, as depletion of stocks will increase the potential for conflict in this region.
in writing. − this own-initiative report aims to highlight the need for a greater level of political cohesion and cooperation in maritime management between the countries of the mediterranean and black sea basins. the rapporteur calls for the eu to use its diplomatic resources to influence member states and third countries to ensure that the principles of the eu's common fisheries policy are respected, noting that increased competition for the exploitation of marine resources can trigger conflicts with third countries. it is therefore urgent that the member states and the eu develop joint initiatives to ensure the security, control and protection of european coastal and territorial waters, exclusive economic zones (eezs), the continental shelf and marine resources, in order to avoid international flashpoints. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the marine environment. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed can make a significant contribution to improving maritime management in the mediterranean and black sea basins.
in writing. - this report is based on the over-exploitation of stocks and marine resources, which leads to escalating tensions and disputes between the coastal states of this sea basin. the rapporteur therefore calls on the commission and third countries to establish a regional approach to conserve species, taking into account the transnational dimension of fisheries and the migratory nature of species. for the reasons mentioned above, i am voting in favour of this report.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, commissioner, for many years we have heard in this house, in official speeches and we have read in official documents that the main objective of the union is to invest 3% of gdp in research. so far, no country in the union has been able to achieve this and we know that austerity has had the opposite effect, which is to reduce ever more investment in terms of gdp in research and innovation. more than a third of the countries in the union are investing less than 1%. we are told, however, and we hear it loud and clear in this house, from president barroso, from the different political groups, from the council, that it is through research that we are going to get out of the crisis, we say that this is the solution that is at hand. however, what we see is that our researchers have increasingly precarious links or that they are fired, that their projects are not funded or that they are often even forced to emigrate to other parts of the world where research and science are better treated than in europe. there are, however, another 3% which is much talked about in this house and which have merited all the attention and enormous intervention of the union's institutions, i am referring to the 3% of the deficit, which have been much more closely followed than the 3% of research. now, for those of you who thought 3% was equal to 3%, we realize that it's not, because 3% of the deficit is gold and 3% of research is plastic, at best. the question i put to you, commissioner, is very simple: are you prepared to fight for 3% of research as your colleague olli rehn has fought for 3% of the deficit, or have you given up that fight?
madam president, the whole world has just learned this afternoon that the nobel prize in physics has been awarded to two europeans, mr higgs, a briton, and mr englert, a belgian. the truth is that these two great scientists who 30 years ago conceptualized that result had to wait 30 years for its realization, demonstration at cern. all this was european and as strange as it may seem, madam president, these two men did not know each other. it was last year when we invited them here to the stoa annual lecture, which i had the honor of chairing, that's when they first met. this tells us that europe has immense potential, but that we still live far apart within our borders. and there is much to be done, madam president: the state of the era has been unsatisfactory both in terms of the mobility of researchers and the portability of pension funds, social security systems, the lack of cooperation between universities, the lack of coordination of national resources with science funding. we are far from reaching 3%, but it is particularly unsatisfactory in terms of the convergence of scientific and technological potential in the different regions. the framework programmes are an island in the middle of nowhere, they have provided incentives for this collaboration, they have fostered competition at european level, they have promoted scientific excellence and they have encouraged the convergence of agendas. this is why better and more effective monitoring of member states' contributions to the era is needed.
mr president, the istanbul convention is a great step forward. it is the first international legally binding instrument for preventing and combating all forms of violence against women. this convention advocates the inclusion of the principle of equality between men and women in national legal systems and the repeal of all discriminatory laws and practices. this convention provides for measures to raise awareness and educate and also for measures to create specialised and immediate support services for women victims of violence. my country, portugal, has been leading the process of ratifying the istanbul convention. it was the first european union state to ratify it last february. other than that, only italy. i hope that the other member states will quickly follow this good example because combating violence against women remains a priority. unfortunately, this phenomenon is universal and affects all cultures and social backgrounds with dramatic consequences for the victims, their families and society. the union must make an effort in this area. i am grateful to the commissioner and the council representative for their words, but i would like to ask: first, what concrete measures will the european institutions take to speed up the ratification process of the istanbul convention? secondly, the european union must be a strong ally of the member states in the elimination of all forms of violence against women. how do you intend to support the member states in this fight, especially those countries where this phenomenon is most pronounced?
mr president, violence against women is a serious violation of human rights and i therefore ask the commissioner when will there be a european directive on gender-based violence? we know that every year, in every country, women die as victims of violence. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. nor is it clear that the istanbul convention, adopted in 2011, has not yet been ratified by the various member states. pressure is needed on member states to do so quickly, as it needs 10 countries to ratify it before it can enter into force. on the 11th, we will mark the international day of the girl child. we also have a symbol that is malala, who is a strong candidate for the sakharov prize, meaning that while all of this is important, we need to act and we need proper legislation to protect women.
i think that parliament should support the european commission's initiative to launch negotiations for a bilateral investment treaty between the european union and china. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had a significant market share in the union market. in fact, china is a major european investment destination and the union is one of the targets of chinese investment and therefore it makes perfect sense to negotiate an investment treaty between the two economies. however, this mandate cannot be a free mandate, it must be conditional. the first condition is that the priority objective is to correct the existing asymmetry in access to reciprocal investment and to establish a level playing field given the extensive barriers to foreign investment on the chinese side. in addition, the union should set limits on direct investment for security or other reasons, e.g. exclusion from the audiovisual sector, and ensure the principles of non-discrimination between national and foreign companies, ensure a level playing field between private and state-owned enterprises, define the rights but also the obligations of investors, preserve the policy space of both parties, e.g. in environmental regulation, prevent social and environmental dumping, safeguard intellectual property rights and ensure the transparency of investor state dispute settlement. the union cannot but take advantage of this opportunity to establish a kind of european model investment treaty which will serve as a precedent for the forthcoming negotiations on investment treaties. and i think the union cannot lag behind the united states, whose model international foreign investment agreement of 2012 includes all these requirements. this resolution is also very timely for the european parliament because the council is due to approve its negotiating mandate on 18 october and we hope that it will take account of this resolution of the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. trade relations between the european union and taiwan are currently well below their potential, although they are growing, with the total amount of bilateral trade having increased more than twelvefold over the past two decades. there is therefore scope for further development of bilateral economic relations. parliament has been in favour of deepening these relations. the resolution of the inter committee on international trade highlights in particular the possibility of negotiations for an investment agreement. in fact, if the european union has decided to negotiate an investment agreement with china, there is no reason why it should not do the same with taiwan, once the necessary requirements are met. now that the european union has the competence to conclude investment agreements, it is natural to understand reciprocal investment liberalization, i.e. market access as investor protection. although it is not among the priorities set by the european commission in 2010 in its communication on foreign investment, there is no reason to exclude taiwan from the commission's agenda.
mr president, commissioner, in an attempt to avoid public debate and scrutiny, by pretending that what is obviously essential is not essential, the commission wants to amend the regulations on flight time for pilots and cabin crew. as usual, they wrap the proposal in rhetoric that says they are defending precisely what they want to put at risk, which is, in this case, the safety of workers and passengers. the commission has once again shown, without disguise, who it is serving. as much as the employers' associations in the sector and the major airlines would like to have it believed otherwise, air safety is not defended by attacking the rights of workers by extending working hours which in some cases are already unreasonably long. but the commission, as always, is doing the shipping for them. it is no longer enough to promote monopolistic concentration in the sector, it is no longer enough to impose the privatisation of national flag carriers, such as tap in portugal, they want to fatten up the profits of the aviation giants by all means, even more, at the expense of workers and passenger safety. they will certainly count on our opposition and the determined struggle of the workers. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. as mr hénin has said, we are used to seeing that interests are defended not only by the commission but also, unfortunately, by the majority of this parliament. it is fortunate that representatives of the workers, representative organisations of the workers, are here today to attend this debate. as i said in my speech, if this proposal goes ahead - and let us not expect that parliament will be able to stop the commission's intentions tomorrow - but if it goes ahead, they will certainly count not only on our opposition here, but i am sure also on the struggle of workers in various countries against this proposal.
i thank you, commissioner oettinger, for coming to this debate. the european energy market depends on modern infrastructure and interconnections of environmental sustainability, common standards, harmonised rules, and it has to be transparent and competitive. in all these areas acer - the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators - plays a key role in the implementation of the infrastructure regulation, in monitoring energy markets by ensuring their transparency, the remit regulation, in the implementation of the third energy package, in the definition of network codes. the implementation of the policies defined by the co-legislators requires the effective fulfilment of the tasks delegated to acer. however, the commission proposes to cut the budgetary needs by about a third to less than eur 11 million, from a figure of almost eur 15.5 million. it is striking, commissioner, the discrepancy between the ambitious objectives of a common energy policy and the shortsighted decisions that can undermine its implementation. the commission is subordinating a policy which is vital to the european economy to its own need to curb administrative expenditure. it is not just 2014 that is at stake, commissioner! of course, after that year we will have a new commission. but we have to think about the future! inadequate means, weak solutions, delays, hesitations, the prevalence of national logic over european energy policy - this is what awaits us. the savings amount to eur 5 million, but the risk is about eur 6 billion in the electricity sector alone. the results will be in sight. we will incur a loss of global competitiveness with much lower energy costs in the united states, industrial relocation and more unemployment in europe. this is not what you want, commissioner, nor is it what we all want. europe needs better decisions.
madam president, what should be the priority for frontex and any other european agencies? saving lives or pushing back people? where is the moral imperative for mr barroso in front of the corpses in lampedusa? most member states’ response to syrian refugees has been disgraceful. we need an eu common asylum and migration policy. the focus on just humanitarian measures is bound to fail. refugees will come out more and more as the war rages on. the eu should use the syrian regime’s frozen assets to help support syrian refugees and idps. but syria will not and should not be emptied of people! an effective channelling of aid to idps inside syria requires a more effective eu presence at the borders in turkey and other neighbouring countries, to support the right channels and not risk misappropriation by corruption, government and jihadist forces. the eu needs also to do more to help organise politically the syrian opposition to prepare a democratic future for syria.
this proposal does indeed standardize skill levels, but it does so by means of minimum standards, the lowest levels, thus reducing the quality of the services provided and, of course, thus putting more pressure on workers, their wages, their social rights, when the european union talks so much about the need to raise the levels of training and the quality of work! in practice, this report suggests the opposite. the possibility of having professionals with very different qualifications working in the same country will only benefit the side of the barricade, the employers, who will thus be able to reduce labour costs. neither workers, users nor consumers will benefit.
in writing. it is symptomatic that this issue is being discussed within the framework of the internal market. it is revealing of the intentions behind the proclamations around the freedom to live and work in any eu country. this freedom has always followed the freedom of movement granted to capital and commodities, and is recognised to the extent, and only to the exact extent, that it can contribute to devaluing labour power - that other commodity of which, according to the well-known law of the market, one wants to increase the supply in order to lower the price - in order to increase profits. it is not by chance that the recognition of professional qualifications is based on minimum standards, devaluing the most complete and specialized training, which in the case of some professions can even call into question the quality of the services/care provided. but that doesn't seem to matter. more competition, more pressure on wages and social rights, even if at the cost of the degradation of services. the workers, users and consumers are lost. the desirable recognition, which facilitates genuine free movement of people (and not the one we have imposed by escaping unemployment and poverty) must be made in progress, taking into account the experience and specificities of each country, and not leveling it down.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the day after its adoption by the commission, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the proposals for a european banking union, stressing that any relevant change in supervision, including transfers of powers to other institutions, should be accompanied by an equivalent increase in transparency and accountability by these institutions to parliament, which should have the right to put all questions and full powers in respect of appointments and procedures of a budgetary nature. the agreement reached provides for strong parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of the ecb's supervisory functions, through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, closed oral debates with the committee's bureau and improved access to information, including to the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board. full cooperation between the two institutions in the field of investigations is also guaranteed.
in writing. − on 28-29 june 2012, the european council called for the creation of a banking union based on three pillars: single banking supervision, a european resolution fund (resolution mechanism) (for banking sector failures) and a european deposit guarantee scheme. in the course of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council on the proposal for the single supervisory mechanism, parliament requested that, in addition to the regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank with regard to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions, an interinstitutional agreement be concluded between parliament and the european central bank. the agreement reached provides for strong parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of the supervisory functions of the european central bank, through regular exchanges of views with the competent parliamentary committee, and improved access to information, including to the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board. full cooperation between the two institutions in the field of investigations is also guaranteed. the draft interinstitutional agreement provides for parliamentary scrutiny of the selection process for the president of the supervisory board, which is welcomed. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report and i call for the single supervisory mechanism to be implemented quickly so that the financial system is stable and can guarantee the necessary financing for the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates strong parliamentary scrutiny of the ecb's supervisory functions, through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee and better access to information, including the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board.
in writing. − in the context of the creation of a banking union, the european parliament and the european central bank agreed on a set of rules aimed at strengthening parliament's democratic control over the ecb's new supervisory powers. this interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the ecb arises in the context of the creation of a single european supervisory system, under which the ecb becomes the ultimate body for european banking supervision. the aim of this agreement is to regulate the relationship between the two institutions in such a way as to safeguard the independence of the ecb and the confidentiality of its supervisory activities and to allow the necessary democratic control and legitimacy over the ecb's actions.
in writing. − the institutional agreement (ia) in question is the result of negotiations which were concluded at the beginning of september 2013 and which allowed the european parliament to vote in favour of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) regulation. in june 2012, the european council called for the creation of a banking union for euro area countries based on three pillars, namely a single banking supervision, a resolution mechanism and a european deposit guarantee scheme. in september 2012, the commission's proposals for a single supervisory mechanism were adopted, which give the european central bank a supervisory role over banks both in the euro area and in member states wishing to participate in the ssm. parliament called for an interinstitutional agreement (iaa) between parliament and the ecb to be concluded in addition to the regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank with regard to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions. this agreement would have to refer to the practical arrangements for democratic accountability and control over the exercise of the tasks conferred on the ecb. the agreement reached reflects parliament's requirements and provides for strong parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of the ecb's supervisory functions, through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, closed oral debates with the committee's bureau and improved access to information, including to the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board.
in writing. - an agreement between the european central bank and the european parliament, which is supposed to be about democratic accountability and control, does not legitimise a process which is essentially illegitimate, undemocratic and an attack on the sovereignty of the peoples. whatever the role of this parliament, it does not legitimise the usurpation of supervisory powers of national institutions, in particular the banco de portugal, by the ecb, with its false independence, intrinsically linked to the interests of large financial capital, to the maintenance and deepening of the speculative process and to a policy whose objective is the so-called price stability and the control of inflation, imposing the destruction of social, labour and national rights. the eu is using the crisis to create mechanisms that facilitate even greater concentration and centralisation of financial capital. the highly secretive nature and very limited access of members - and without any participation by the institutions of national sovereignty - to information on the ecb's activities in the framework of the single supervisory mechanism, in the process of selecting the chairman of the supervisory board, as well as the total absence of political, democratic control of its actions, demonstrate what we have been denouncing in relation to its undemocratic functioning and that these mechanisms will not mean any greater supervision and control of banking activity.
in writing. − this agreement provides for strong parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of the ecb's supervisory functions through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, oral discussions behind closed doors with the committee's bureau and improved access to information, including to the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board. full cooperation between the two institutions in the field of investigations is also guaranteed. the draft ida also provides for parliamentary scrutiny of the selection process for the chairman of the supervisory board. the ep can thus exercise its supervisory function properly. a single supervisory mechanism is essential to restore confidence in the eu banking sector.
in writing. − the institutional agreement (ia) in question is the result of complex negotiations which were concluded at the beginning of september 2013 and which allowed the european parliament to vote in favour of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) regulation. in the course of the negotiations between parliament and the council on the proposal for a single supervisory mechanism, parliament requested that, in addition to the regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank with regard to policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions, an interinstitutional agreement (iia) be concluded between parliament and the ecb. that interinstitutional agreement should lay down, in accordance with article 20 (9) of that regulation, the practical arrangements for democratic accountability and oversight of the ecb in the exercise of the tasks conferred on it. the committee on constitutional affairs examined the merits and found the agreement to be valid in the light of the treaties. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the committee on constitutional affairs was asked to examine the substance of the interinstitutional agreement (iaa) between parliament and the european central bank, which aims to define the practical arrangements for democratic accountability and control over the exercise of the tasks conferred on the ecb. the examination focused on an overall assessment of the institutional validity of the supervision requested by parliament, considering the conditions of the interinstitutional agreement to be valid in all respects. thus, the conferral of supervisory powers approved in the committee responsible and subject to the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) should counterbalance the conferral of powers to the ecb, which implies a significant responsibility for the financial stability of the union, with appropriate accountability requirements. my vote takes account of the principle of openness to approve the conclusion of this interinstitutional agreement on the practical arrangements for democratic accountability and control.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement (iia) is the result of complex negotiations between the european parliament and the european central bank (ecb) for the creation of a banking union in the euro area countries, which presupposes a single banking supervision, a european resolution fund and a european deposit guarantee scheme. the ssm ii provides for strict parliamentary scrutiny of the exercise of ecb supervisory functions and the process for selecting the chair of the supervisory board, as well as for full cooperation between the two institutions in the context of investigations. i am voting in favour of this report because it is in line with the iia.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the proposed composition of the interparliamentary delegations, the delegations to joint parliamentary committees and the delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies.
in writing. - i agree with the decision of the conference of presidents on the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations and the abolition of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee following the accession of this member state to the union.
in writing. − the accession of croatia to the european union necessarily entails the redefinition of the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies, as well as their numerical composition. the abolition of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee is the clearest sign of this change. croatia is now a full member of the union and its members of the european parliament should (and may) also join the european delegations on an equal footing with those from other member states.
in writing. - following the accession of croatia to the european union and the consequent abolition of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee, i agree to the change in the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations in accordance with the proposal of the conference of presidents.
in writing. - we agree that following croatia's accession to the european union the delegation to the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee should be abolished, as its maintenance would be discriminatory towards croatia and an anachronism. we also agree with the amendment of the number of members of some of the interparliamentary delegations, with a view to creating the seats necessary for the free exercise of the right of members elected by croatia to be members of interparliamentary delegations.
in writing. - the recent full accession of croatia to the eu requires changes in the composition of several interparliamentary delegations so that the new croatian meps can be part of them. that is the purpose of the adoption of this report, which also approves the abolition of the delegation to the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament concerning the number and numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations, the delegations to joint parliamentary committees and the delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies, following the accession of croatia and the abolition of the delegation to the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee.
in writing. - having regard to the amendment to the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations and the number of members elected to them, i am in favour of adopting this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by regretting the difficulties encountered in the discharge procedures for the financial years 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 due to the lack of cooperation from the council. i would point out that parliament refused to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial years 2009 and 2010 for the reasons set out in its resolutions of 10 may 2011, 25 october 2011, 10 may 2012 and 23 october 2012. i hope that future annual activity reports received by parliament and the council will include a comprehensive overview of the human resources as a whole, and that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of their financial management and to ensure better accountability by both institutions. i regret that the council continues to refuse to answer parliament's questions.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the discharge for the european council and the council for the year 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on discharge 2011: european council and council, in which parliament refuses to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2011, on the grounds that the council, as an institution of the union, is accountable to the citizens of the union, who have the right to know how taxes are used.
in writing. − the discharge to the council budget was again refused for the 2011 financial year due to the council's continued refusal to answer questions put by parliament to clarify aspects of its budget to the council which are not considered by the council to be clear in its capacity as discharge authority. this refusal also covers other documents which have been requested by parliament. parliament once again called on the council to answer the questions put to it for the discharge for 2009, 2010 and 2011 and to act financially in a way that clearly demonstrates democratic transparency and accountability.
in writing. − due to the lack of cooperation from the council, there were difficulties in the discharge procedures for the financial years 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. it is therefore welcomed that the presidency-in-office of the council accepted parliament's invitation to attend the debate on the discharge reports for the financial year 2011 which took place at the plenary session of 17 april 2013 and the proposal of the irish presidency to set up an interinstitutional working group to find possible solutions for the discharge to the council. i believe that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to contribute to the transparency of their financial management and to ensure better accountability by both institutions.
in writing. − this is the second report on the discharge for the 2011 eu budget for the accounts of the european council and the council. as in the first report, the rapporteur refuses to give a discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2011. this is an old question and the reasons for the refusal remain. the lack of transparency and of response to the european parliament's requests on various issues: award of public contracts; internal council decisions; purchase of buildings... the council also had three months to reply to the questions in the european parliament resolution accompanying the decision to postpone discharge (first report). so far the council has made no effort to answer the european parliament's questions or to reach agreement on the discharge procedure for its budget. the rapporteur therefore proposes that parliament should use its prerogatives and refuse discharge.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits known to us, the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, as far as the european council and the council are concerned, we continue to face less transparent situations and the absence of answers to a number of questions which have been addressed to the secretary-general of the council. i believe that all the institutions of the union have a duty to respect the same standards of transparency, and i am convinced that parliament and the council, as co-legislators, should apply the same standards of transparency, and that the council should improve its performance in this area without delay. that is why i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge for the european council and the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ii european council and council, in view of the difficulties encountered in the discharge procedures due to the lack of cooperation by the council. this is not a new situation and it is hoped that the irish presidency's proposal to set up an interinstitutional working party will be able to find possible solutions for the discharge to the council, and a concrete proposal from the lithuanian presidency of the council is expected in this regard.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) confers on the european parliament an authorising responsibility as regards discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. article 335 tfeu provides that the union is to be represented by each institution, within the limits of its administrative autonomy, in matters relating to its functioning and that, having regard to article 55 of the financial regulation, each institution is to be responsible for the implementation of its own budget. i agree with this report on discharge to the european council and the council, but i support the recommendations of the court of auditors that budgetary managers improve the design, coordination and performance of the award procedures through appropriate controls and better strategic guidance. finally, i would like to stress the importance of citizens' right to know how the taxes they pay are used and how the power they give to political bodies is exercised.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that this directive is very important in the union's environmental policy. its scope covers some 200 types of projects, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways and landfills to intensive poultry or pig farming. the eia directive establishes the simple but fundamental principle of informed decision: before approving the implementation of a public or approved project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. i am convinced that a truly sustainable development model needs to be adopted throughout the union and i express my full and unwavering support for the commission's proposal. the proposed amendments are therefore intended to strengthen the proposal by completing it, with the aim of making it even more incisive and effective, simplifying transposition into national legislation and facilitating the achievement of environmental protection objectives.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/ec aims to ensure the environmental sustainability of projects falling within its scope, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways, landfills, etc. over its 28 years of application, the directive has been successful, but some shortcomings have also been identified which have given rise to a significant number of legal conflicts. to address these problems and to bring the text of the directive into line with the new priorities of the union, the european commission has put forward this proposal for a revision. the proposal introduces biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters among the factors on which the impact of a project should be assessed. it is also intended to strengthen the role of the public concerned at all stages of the procedure and to ensure full independence between the competent authority and the prosecutor in order to ensure the credibility of the whole procedure and to exclude any conflict of interest. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i agree with the proposed revision which aims to streamline procedures and increase the quality of assessments, introduce new factors to assess environmental issues, improve the quality of information used in the eia and simplify procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the environmental impact assessment of certain public and private projects, taking into account the need to review this directive in the light of new political, legal and technical challenges and to align this legislation with eu priorities on the environment, biodiversity, use of natural resources, climate change and natural disasters. a strengthened directive will bring environmental, health and economic benefits through simplified and more efficient procedures.
in writing. − environmental protection and sustainability is a priority for this house. that said, i do not think the ep needs to add measures to shale gas exploration, as it would if this report were adopted in its broadest sense. if the concern of my colleagues is hydrocarbon production, let the commission go ahead with its proposal announced in its programme on this subject. i believe that our work is all the more useful the more it is focused, and that is why reports like this, which are so wide-ranging and horizontal, cannot aspire to legislate equally adequately on so many subjects.
in writing. - the report by mr zanoni deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. the current directive is a key element of eu environmental policy. its scope covers hundreds of project types, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways and landfills to intensive poultry or pig farming. certain problems of harmonisation and interpretation of certain provisions have been identified and a revision is now required to bring the text of the directive into line with the new political priorities of the union, such as the soil strategy, the roadmap for a resource efficient europe and the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that in this review it is essential that the principle of informed decision before approval of a project likely to have an impact on the environment is maintained, with the involvement of the public and with experts who have the necessary technical skills to carry out the tasks provided for in the directive in a scientifically objective manner and with complete independence from the developer and the competent authorities themselves.
in writing. − the directive in question refers to environmental impact assessment (eia), which is essential to safeguard the public interest and the conservation of nature in decision-making on public and private projects, taking into account their effect on the environment. the practical experience of the eia over the last 25 years, despite the positive aspects it has brought to light, shows that improvements are possible by learning from experience and adapting the procedure to the changing political, legal and technical-scientific context. unfortunately, the vote in plenary has weakened the proposal considerably. a number of positive aspects have been lost because of the right-wing votes. we particularly regret the rejection of our proposal, which enshrined the right of the public to request an eia procedure for projects of interest, through mechanisms of active participation involving the population, local authorities and associations, including ngos. we are fighting for transparency and accessibility to the public, particularly via the internet, and for their comments to be taken into account in order to improve the quality of decisions and to contribute to raising awareness of environmental issues. on the positive side, we stress that the mandatory completion of the eia procedure in the case of shale gas exploration projects (the fracking controversy) has been enshrined.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/eu contains a legal provision requiring an environmental impact assessment (eia) for public or private projects likely to have significant effects on the environment, before their authorisation. it is agreed that the main objective of the directive has been achieved, the principles of environmental assessment have been harmonised across the eu by introducing minimum requirements with regard to the type of projects subject to assessment, the main obligations of the developer, the content of the assessment and the involvement of the competent authorities and the public. the overall objective of this proposal is to adjust the provisions of the eia directive in order to address its shortcomings, taking into account current environmental and socio-economic changes and challenges. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive) is the basis of the union's environment policy. over its 28 years of application, this directive has had some success in harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at european level, but it has only been subject to three minor amendments, when the political, legal and technical context has evolved considerably. it has therefore become necessary to revise it in order to adopt a model of truly sustainable development throughout the union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the present report revises directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive). this review aims to bring the legislative framework into line with the new political priorities of a union whose political, legal and technical context has evolved considerably. in line with the union's priorities, new factors to be taken into account when assessing projects likely to have an impact on the environment are introduced by means of legislation; these include biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters. the strengthening of the proposal, along with the above-mentioned alignment of procedures with the union's priorities, contributes to simplifying procedures, in particular as regards transposition into national law. given the urgency of providing the union with an instrument to ensure the sustainability of projects to be carried out on european territory, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a directive.
in writing. − directive 2011/92/eu, which concerns the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment by covering a wide range of projects in the environmental impact assessment (eia), is central to the union's environmental policy. i am voting in favour of this proposal because i think it is the appropriate proposal and possible, given the divisions that have arisen in the amendment process. greater rigor and transparency are essential elements for the approval of projects with environmental consequences.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the decision of the european parliament and of the council on a common framework for the marketing of products lays down common principles and reference provisions for legislative acts based on the principles of the new approach. in my view, in order to ensure consistency with other sectoral product legislation, certain provisions of this directive should be aligned with that decision, provided that sectoral specificities do not require a different solution. therefore, certain definitions, the general obligations of economic operators, the presumption of conformity, the rules on ce marking, the requirements for conformity assessment bodies and the notification procedures, as well as the provisions on procedures relating to products presenting a risk are aligned by that decision.
in writing. − this proposal for a recreational craft and watercraft directive updates the current european union rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for craft designed for private use activities. this proposal does not apply to vessels designed and used for the commercial carriage of passengers, which are regulated by directive 2009/45/ec and directive 2006/87/ec. the basic requirements that vessels will have to meet relate to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, and exhaust and noise emissions. to that end, products covered by this directive may only be placed on the market if the general safety requirements are met. the installation of on-board storage tanks or water treatment systems for vessels equipped with sanitary facilities will be mandatory to better protect the marine environment. the ce marking shall be extended to all internal or column driven engines without integrated exhaust. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − i welcome this review of the safety and environmental requirements for recreational craft and watercraft, including exhaust and noise emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on recreational craft and watercraft for supporting the introduction of stricter limits for exhaust and noise emissions and the updating of design requirements, which will allow for greater legal certainty, benefiting both manufacturers and consumers.
in writing. − this proposal substantially updates the current eu rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for recreational, sport and training vessels. the main fundamental requirements which the vessels concerned will have to meet relate to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety and exhaust and noise emissions. in view of the general consensus that seems to exist around the proposal, i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. − in view of the important contribution it makes to the reduction and specification of the limits for the emission of exhaust gases from marine engines of recreational craft and to the effort to harmonise the legislation in force, i support the proposal for a revision of this directive presented by the commission. this aspect supports the option of maintaining the applicable limits for noise emissions, in view of the difficulties and high technical requirements which would be imposed by the necessary changes. i would also like to stress the positive impact of greater harmonisation of environmental requirements on the industrial competitiveness of this sector in the global context. safety is another aspect which we must value in the legislative work concerned, as are measures to avoid the discharge of waste water into the sea.
in writing. − this proposal for a recreational craft and watercraft directive updates the current eu rules on environmental and safety performance requirements for private use vessels. the proposal introduces a reduction in the emission limit values for certain categories of petrol engines. it also sets stricter limits for hydrocarbons and nox for new recreational craft. relevant objectives with which we agree. the rapporteur considers that the current limits of the proposal in the field of noise are those which can be reached with the current design of vessels, any significantly stricter measures would require a new design of the vessels, which would have a negative impact (...) on safety. the rapporteur therefore does not propose stricter noise emission limits, although member states may set them. we voted yes.
in writing. the first recreational craft directive was adopted in 1994 to regulate the placing of recreational craft on the european market. it sets out essential safety requirements that manufacturers must comply with when designing vessels with a view to placing such safe vessels on the eu market. the aim of this amendment is to adapt the directive to the flagship policies defined in the europe 2020 strategy, which aim to create a resource-efficient europe to meet climate/energy objectives. integrated maritime policy rationalizes environmental protection in all union policies, especially those affecting the marine environment. the revision of the recreational craft directive is part of this overall context. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the proposed new recreational craft and watercraft directive substantially updates the current eu rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for craft designed for private use activities, i.e. leisure, sport and training activities, including when hired with or without a crew. the objective of this directive is that the vessels concerned comply with certain measures relating to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, exhaust gas emissions and noise. i voted in favour of supporting the measures contained in this report.
in writing. − the european commission proposal aligns the existing legal framework with the new legislative framework and the lisbon treaty, allowing conformity assessment to be facilitated by the use of harmonised standards which provide a presumption of conformity of products with the requirements laid down by the directives. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is properly implemented. recognising the advantages of the new requirements, i voted in favour of the directive requiring all products placed on the internal market of the union to comply with safety requirements.
in writing. − this report presents a set of amendments concerning recreational craft and private jet boats, with the aim of bringing new safety rules and environmental issues into line. i am in favour of this report because i believe that these amendments will allow the development of this sector and at the same time bring more security to citizens and greater environmental protection.
in writing. − this proposal for a new recreational craft and watercraft directive updates the current eu rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for craft designed for private use activities. the proposal introduces a reduction in the emission limit values for certain categories of petrol engines. it also sets stricter limits for hydrocarbons and nox for new recreational craft. it also specifies the general safety requirements for buoyancy, electricity and ventilation of gas and fuel tanks. the rapporteur changes the definition of the categories of vessel design by introducing wind force and wave height as the main parameters instead of geographical location. the rapporteur considers that the current noise limits of the proposal are those which can be reached with the current design of vessels, any significantly stricter measures would require a new design of the vessels, which would have a significant negative impact on human occupation space and safety. the rapporteur therefore does not propose stricter noise emission limits, although member states may set them. we voted yes.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment in europe and is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy and the single market act. however, mobility remains limited due to the absence of clear and simple rules for the recognition of professional qualifications, despite the european legal framework dating back to the 1970s. the vast majority of complaints from citizens to solvit centres thus point to difficulties in recognising their qualifications with a view to practising their profession in another member state of the union. the fundamental right to free movement is not yet a given and this legislative proposal should contribute to this process by simplifying the procedures for citizens who wish to move, while ensuring a high level of quality and safety for consumers, patients, workers and other eu citizens and by strengthening trust between member states. improvements in the recognition of qualifications should build on this acquis and be modernised through the most open consultation and concertation possible between the competent authorities, professional associations, academic institutions and the social partners.
in writing. − professional mobility is an essential element for competitiveness and employment in europe and an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy and the single market act. however, mobility remains limited due to the absence of clear and simple rules for the recognition of professional qualifications. it is intended to help simplify procedures for citizens wishing to live or work in another member state, while ensuring a high level of safety and quality for consumers, patients, workers and other citizens of the european union by strengthening trust between member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications. in order to combat inaction and red tape, the principle of tacit authorisation is maintained, i.e. if a member state does not reply within the prescribed time limit, it is considered to be tacitly authorised. the early warning mechanism is introduced, i.e. rapid exchange of information to prevent a professional from being prevented from practising his profession in his country for any reason. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the new rules adopted today in the report on the recognition of professional qualifications which facilitate the mobility of workers within the eu. the updating of the directive adopted today provides for the creation of a european professional portfolio which should make recognition processes faster, simpler and more transparent in all eu countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to increased mobility in the internal market by introducing simplified procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications between member states of the european union.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of professionals, especially in terms of the recognition of their qualifications, is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery. in addition, the free movement of professionals is only truly possible if there are simple rules for the recognition of qualifications which do not act as a barrier to mobility. this simplification also involves regular adjustment of the common training requirements for the professions benefiting from automatic recognition and, in the long term, an increase in the number of these professions.
in writing. - guarantees of effective occupational mobility are essential not only for the real completion of the internal market but above all for the completion of a de facto european union. in this process, the concern to ensure a balance between factors guaranteeing mobility and free movement on the one hand and conditions safeguarding the quality and safety of the provision of services to citizens on the other must be emphasised. as in the design of the european professional portfolio, it is important to ensure the stability of professional relations and the european labour market by reconciling the different interests, concerns and needs of professionals who move to another member state in order to exercise their skills and qualifications with the citizens who benefit from the same services. the regulation of this field will at the same time help to improve and harmonise methods and systems of qualification between member states. it is expected to eliminate much of the problems that have given rise to a large number of complaints from european citizens, notably through solvit, concerning the difficulties of recognising qualifications in other member states.
in writing. - we voted against the recognition of professional qualifications based on minimum standards, which undermines the most comprehensive and specialised training, which in the case of some professions - for example, health care (in the case of nurses) - can even compromise the quality of the services/care provided. on the contrary, the recognition we advocate, which facilitates genuine free movement of people (and not the one we have imposed by escaping unemployment and poverty) must be made in progress, taking into account the experience and specificities of each country, and not leveling it down. for the same reasons, we advocate the need to ensure that professionals are proficient in the language of the country, which is especially relevant in areas where interpersonal contact is crucial for the proper performance of the functions in question. the motives are clear: more competition between workers, more pressure on wages and social rights, even if at the cost of the degradation of services. they lose: workers, users and consumers. the desirable recognition, which facilitates genuine free movement of people (and not the one we have imposed by escaping unemployment and poverty) must be made in progress, taking into account the experience and specificities of each country, and not leveling it down.
in writing. − professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment in europe and is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy and the single market act. however, mobility remains limited due to the absence of clear and simple rules for the recognition of qualifications. the fundamental right to free movement is not yet a given and this legislative proposal should contribute to this process by simplifying the procedures for citizens who wish to move, while ensuring a high level of quality and safety for consumers, patients, workers and other eu citizens, and by strengthening trust between member states. we are facing a huge challenge both to the potential of the single market and to the very existence of european citizenship. it is in this sense that the recast proposal was identified, following the adoption of the single market act, as one of the 12 levers to stimulate growth and strengthen mutual trust between european citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the vergnaud report on the recognition of professional qualifications within the union because i consider it positive and timely to revise the 2005 directive on the subject, in order to promote greater cross-border professional mobility within the eu and to ensure greater consumer confidence in professional services. there can be no truly integrated single market unless there is fluidity in the mobility of professionals and the opening up of the professional services market to the entry and competition of professionals from other member states. the creation of the european professional portfolio can be a valuable tool both to facilitate mobility and to increase levels of trust in the services provided by professionals from other member states. the clarification of language requirements and the mechanisms for updating the curricula of some of the more sensitive professions (particularly in the health sector) and for monitoring the quality of the training provided in relation to the requirements laid down in the directive are also welcome.
in writing. − professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment in europe and is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy. however, mobility remains limited due to the absence of clear and simple rules for the recognition of professional qualifications, despite the european legal framework dating back to the 1970s. the vast majority of complaints from citizens to solvit centres thus point to difficulties in recognising their qualifications with a view to practising their profession in another member state of the union. this reform must achieve the objective of demonstrating to the member states, in compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, that european legislation, by bringing real added value to policies that affect the daily lives of citizens, contributes to strengthening european citizenship and democracy. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the apprehension and distrust of citizens in the different member states in the face of the disparity in training, methods and conditions of professional practice, hinders the completion of the single market and european citizenship itself. despite the efforts to approximate curricula initiated by the bologna process, the lack of confidence in the training of applicants is still an obstacle to mobility. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of quality control of training provided by educational establishments. the commission proposal contains ideas to meet the challenge that the absence of clear and simple rules for the recognition of professional qualifications has brought to many citizens, especially young people, who, alarmed by unemployment, are calling for access to professional mobility as a means of securing a future in line with the promises of the european project. in view of the rapporteur's favourable opinion and also taking into account my mandate's commitment to the future of eu citizens, and in particular young people, i voted in favour of the report, hoping that its adoption would facilitate the work on the recognition of professional qualifications.
in writing. − directive 2005/36/ec, concerning the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation through the internal market information system (imi), is essential for promoting the free movement of professionals in the european area while ensuring easy and efficient recognition of their professional training and experience. this report does not propose a new directive but a modernisation of existing provisions, such as the introduction of the european professional card, which will make it possible to exploit the full potential of mobility in the internal market of the member states. in order to overcome obstacles to mobility, it is also recommended that more use be made of the imi system and that a mechanism be introduced to monitor the quality of training provided by the various establishments. all these mechanisms will enable citizens to practise their profession in another member state, which in a time of financial, economic and social crisis could be a way of securing a future and restoring confidence in the european project. i am in favour of this report because professional mobility is a crucial element for competitiveness and employment in europe and even for european citizenship itself.
in writing. the proposal for a directive strengthens the mechanisms for harmonising the recognition of professional qualifications and aims to simplify the procedure for obtaining the european professional card for regulated professions. however, the proposal does not set minimum requirements for access to certain professions or even the existence of minimum training content. it standardizes the level of qualifications required for the exercise of professions to the minimum level, which reduces the quality of services (especially in more sensitive areas such as health) and puts pressure on workers, their wages and social rights. the proposal also sets out the content needed for education and training systems. in this way the commission is disregarding the right and responsibility of countries to define their own education and training systems. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report. in line with the opinion of the european commission and the council, that after several rounds of negotiations, armenia is now ready to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement. the simplified visa system can give a new impetus to cooperation, and in particular to the mobility of citizens, which will be simplified thanks to the liberalized visa system. the new rules will make the procedures faster (the decision will have to be taken within 10 days, in urgent cases two days or less), cheaper (the visa fee for processing applications of armenian citizens will amount to eur 35) and less bureaucratic (the documents to be presented in relation to the purpose of the trip have been simplified for some categories of persons, in particular for close relatives, members of official delegations, students, teachers, businessmen, scientists, etc.) and there are also simplified criteria for issuing visas allowing multiple entries. the armenian government has already abolished the visa requirement for eu citizens with effect from january 2013. the conclusion of the agreements on visa liberalisation and readmission is a very important step in the mutual relations between armenia and the eu.
in writing. - i support this agreement to facilitate the mobility of citizens between the union and armenia, which is essential to build people-to-people contacts.
in writing. - this agreement is one of the first steps to be taken, in a phased manner, with a view to introducing in due course a visa-free regime for the citizens of the republic of armenia, and should be accompanied by a strengthening of security conditions in order to combat cross-border crime and irregular migration. this simplified visa regime should thus contribute to enhancing cooperation and mobility between the eu and armenia. it will make procedures faster, cheaper and less bureaucratic. simplified criteria for issuing multiple-entry visas have also been adopted and the criteria for certain categories of persons have been simplified. i welcome the fact that armenia has already put into effect in january 2013 the decision to exempt all citizens of the eu as well as of the countries associated to the schengen area from the visa requirement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider that, after several rounds of negotiations, armenia is now ready to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement with the european union. this visa liberalisation is a very important step in the mutual relations between armenia and the eu, as it will facilitate people-to-people contacts and strengthen economic, social and cultural ties.
in writing. - armenia is a country naturally close to the european union. its rich and very ancient history makes it a country that is part of european civilization and is geographically situated on the border between europe and asia. i believe it is in the strategic interest of the union to maintain a close relationship with armenia and to promote its rapprochement. in this respect, visa simplification could contribute positively to increased cooperation and transit by citizens and businesses. the acceleration of procedures and their lower cost will contribute to an effective easing of requirements on armenian citizens and is an appropriate response to the abolition of the visa requirement for eu citizens, with effect from january 2013, decreed by the armenian authorities.
in writing. − in defending the strengthening and good relations with neighbouring countries, the european union must give priority to promoting the values and basic principles of its construction and development, in favour of a community acquis which values the enlargement of the democratic area, the rule of law, good governance and human dignity. the visa facilitation contributes to the strengthening and implementation of the european neighbourhood policy action plan for armenia, enabling cooperation and mobility of citizens to be given a new impetus, and could accelerate economic and political integration with a region that also includes azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine.
in writing. - visa facilitation agreements have been linked to readmission agreements and seen as part of the same policy to combat illegal immigration. we are in favour of facilitating the issuing of visas. but as we have been denouncing, these agreements function as a bargaining chip between the eu and some third countries, for which the aim is to achieve greater visa facilitation (generally for their economic elites), in exchange for the readmission, cheaply, of the majority of their immigrants, usually workers, who seek work and a better life in eu countries. this in practice opens the way to the expulsion of all workers who, in the hope of a better job and life, immigrate to another country but find themselves confronted by a criminalizing, repressive and inhumane policy of the eu, which manages the entry and exit of immigrants in accordance with the interests of the workforce at any given moment. in other words, a policy in which immigrants, placed in an illegal situation, are exposed to networks of exploitation and trafficking of immigrants, with the perverse effect of further pressuring the reduction of wages and labour and social rights in eu countries.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) has played an important role in the mutual relations between the eu and certain third countries for several years. since the late 1990s, the european union has concluded 10 apt, one of which with armenia, which entered into force on 31 may 1999. the agreement provided a framework for cooperation in a number of areas, but there are no provisions on visa facilitation. in september 2011, the european commission proposed the opening of negotiations on a visa facilitation agreement between the eu and armenia, which was signed on 17 december 2012, but requires the approval of the european parliament before it can enter into force. the eu has already concluded visa facilitation agreements with nine non-eu countries. as far as the countries of the south caucasus are concerned, so far only an agreement of this kind has been concluded with georgia, but negotiations with azerbaijan are already under way. the time has now come to approve this eu-armenia agreement which will greatly facilitate the issuing of visas between both parties.
in writing. − in the joint declaration on an eu-armenia mobility partnership of 27 october 2011, the parties decided to establish a mobility partnership based on reciprocity, with the aim of better managing legal and labour migration, including circular and temporary migration. the european parliament's report concludes, in line with the opinion of the european commission and the council and after several rounds of negotiations, that armenia is now ready to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement. in view of the positive opinions and with no objections, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the draft legislative resolution approves the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of armenia. the opinion of the committee responsible is in favour of the conclusion of the agreement which will facilitate the issuing of visas, thanks to the liberalized visa regime. the partnership agreements are based on the principles that guided the creation of the union and provide frameworks for cooperation in various fields, including economic cooperation, but the eu-armenia agreement did not include provisions for visa facilitation. in the light of the above, my vote supports the progress on visa liberalisation as committed in the eastern partnership summit declaration of may 2009.
in writing. − partnerships with third countries promote the european union's action on the international scene, which is based on the principles which guided its creation. the 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia played a central role in the country's mutual relations with the eu, but no provisions were made at that time on the issue of visas. the european neighbourhood policy action plan has also opened up new opportunities for partnership, including the start of dialogue on the movement of persons, readmission and visas. at present, and after all these steps and negotiations, armenia is ready to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement. this simplified visa system could boost cooperation and, above all, the mobility of citizens. not only will the procedures be faster, cheaper (a fee of €35), but much less bureaucratic, and there will also be simplified criteria for issuing visas authorising multiple entries. as this is an essential step for the mutual relations between armenia and the eu, i support the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. − readmission agreements are inseparable from visa facilitation agreements and part of the same policy of combating illegal immigration. in practice, as we have been denouncing, these agreements function as a bargaining chip between the eu and some third countries, for which the aim is to achieve greater visa facilitation (generally for their economic elites), in exchange for the readmission, cheaply, of the majority of their immigrants, usually workers, who are looking for work and a better life in eu countries. it is basically a question of expelling all those workers who, in the hope of a better job and a better life, emigrate to another country but are confronted with a criminalising, repressive and inhumane policy which manages the entry and exit of immigrants in accordance with the interests of the labour force at any given moment and the extortion of the greatest possible surplus value from their work. a policy in which immigrants, often illegals, are subjected to the most despicable exploitation in employment and society. it is the logic of the international division of labour, through which the eu seeks to impose on third countries such as armenia the role of suppliers of cheap labour. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that another, deeper level of integration is needed in the form of an association agreement, recently negotiated between the parties, which will strengthen cooperation between armenia and the european union. i am in favour of and approve of the conclusion of this agreement, which will mainly facilitate the mobility of citizens, which is essential for building contacts between people. however, i call on the commission to monitor the implementation of the two agreements in order to identify any uncomfortable provisions that need to be corrected so that the benefits of the simplified visa regime can be fully exploited. i also believe that negotiations should be intensified with regard to the conclusion of similar agreements with azerbaijan, the last country in the south caucasus region.
in writing. - i am in favour of and approve of the conclusion of the agreement, which will mainly facilitate the mobility of citizens, in particular those residing without authorisation.
in writing. − the conclusion of this readmission agreement, together with the visa liberalisation agreement and the recently negotiated association agreement, are very important steps towards strengthening cooperation between armenia and the eu. it will thus allow the eu to play a more active role in the south caucasus area and will enhance mobility and people-to-people contacts, which are essential elements for the development of economic, social and cultural links with this area. to balance the visa facilitation agreement, effective measures are needed to prevent and control illegal immigration flows. this readmission agreement thus aims to establish, on a reciprocal basis, rapid and effective procedures for the identification and safe return of national citizens, third-country nationals and stateless persons residing without authorisation in the territory of the other party. having ratified several important international conventions, including the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees, and being a member of the eastern partnership, which is based on commitments to safeguard the principles of international law and fundamental rights, i believe that armenia has the necessary requirements to ensure that the rights of the persons covered by the agreement are respected.
in writing. - as a complement to the facilitation of the issuing of visas for armenian citizens, i believe it is important to agree with armenia how the readmission of persons residing in the european union without authorisation will be processed in the country. these two strands respect the european union's priorities on immigration: organising legal immigration and combating illegal immigration. this agreement should contribute to the understanding of armenian citizens of the need to comply with legal requirements when immigrating to the union and further engage the union with the aim of promoting the acceleration of political association and deepening of economic integration of armenia in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − as part of the process of strengthening relations with armenia and the effective implementation of the european neighbourhood policy, the european union should ensure mechanisms for the mobility of citizens that ensure an environment of mutual trust and transparency with neighbouring countries, such as armenia. it is in this context that the agreement between the eu and armenia on the readmission of persons from both sides residing without authorisation on the other side of the border is of particular importance, establishing a basis of reciprocity, fast and effective procedures for the identification and safe and orderly return of such persons, facilitating the mobility of citizens and fostering contacts and coexistence between persons of different nationalities.
in writing. − readmission agreements function as a bargaining chip between the eu and some third countries, for which the aim is to achieve greater visa facilitation (generally for their economic elites), in exchange for the readmission, cheaply, of the majority of their immigrants, usually workers, seeking work and a better life in eu countries. it is basically a question of expelling all those workers who, in the hope of a better job and a better life, emigrate to another country but are confronted with a criminalising, repressive and inhumane policy which manages the entry and exit of immigrants in accordance with the interests of the labour force at any given moment and the extortion of the greatest possible surplus value from their work. a policy which subjects immigrants, who are often illegal, to the most vile exploitation of labour and society. it is the logic of the international division of labour, through which the eu seeks to impose on third countries such as armenia the role of suppliers of cheap labour. we voted against it.
in writing. − after the 2004 and 2007 enlargements, the eu's external borders have changed and there is a clear need to strengthen relations with the eu's new neighbours. the creation of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was a clear signal to the new neighbouring countries, and also to the south caucasus, which with the new enlargement is now much closer to the eu's borders. the inclusion of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia in the enp also implied that the partners are willing to deepen their cooperation as established in the jcpoa. the new enp action plan for armenia has opened up new perspectives for partnership, including the establishment of a dialogue on issues related to the movement of persons, including readmission and visa policy. on 19 december 2011, the council formally authorised the commission to negotiate a readmission agreement between the european union and armenia, which was signed on 19 april 2013 and is now approved by the european parliament so that it can enter into force.
in writing. − to balance the agreement on visa facilitation, effective measures are needed to prevent and control illegal immigration flows. the partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia already included an article on readmissions, in which both parties agreed to readmit any of their nationals illegally present in the territory of the other party. the aim of the recently negotiated readmission agreement is to establish, on a reciprocal basis, rapid and effective procedures for the identification and safe and orderly return of such persons. the conclusion of the agreements on visa liberalisation and readmission are very important steps in the mutual relations between armenia and the eu. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the draft legislative resolution approves the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of armenia. the opinion of the committee responsible is in favour of the conclusion of the agreement which will facilitate, through effective measures to prevent and control illegal immigration flows, the readmission of any national of both parties illegally in the territory of the other party. the partnership agreements are based on the principles that guided the creation of the union and provide frameworks for cooperation in various fields, including economic, but the eu-armenia agreement did not include provisions for visa facilitation. given the need for effective measures to prevent and control the flows of visas, which are intensified by the agreement, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − partnerships with third countries promote the european union's action on the international scene, which is based on the principles which guided its creation. the 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia has played a pivotal role in the country's relations with the eu, including an article on illegal immigration, under which both parties agreed to cooperate in preventing and controlling such migrants, as well as to readmit any national illegally present in the other party's territory. in 2011, the joint declaration on an eu-armenia mobility partnership established a partnership based on reciprocity to effectively manage legal and labour migration, including circular and temporary migration. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement. the aim is to create rapid and effective procedures for the identification and safe return of these people. i support the conclusion of this agreement because it facilitates the mobility of citizens, which is of the utmost importance for the mutual relations between the eu and armenia.
in writing. − readmission agreements are inseparable from visa facilitation agreements and part of the same policy of combating illegal immigration. in practice, as we have been denouncing, these agreements function as a bargaining chip between the eu and some third countries, for which the aim is to achieve greater visa facilitation (generally for their economic elites), in exchange for the readmission, cheaply, of the majority of their immigrants, usually workers, who are looking for work and a better life in eu countries. it is basically a question of expelling all those workers who, in the hope of a better job and a better life, emigrate to another country but are confronted with a criminalising, repressive and inhumane policy which manages the entry and exit of immigrants in accordance with the interests of the labour force at any given moment and the extortion of the greatest possible surplus value from their work. a policy in which immigrants, often illegals, are subjected to the most despicable exploitation in employment and society. it is the logic of the international division of labour, through which the eu seeks to impose on third countries such as armenia the role of suppliers of cheap labour. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve and support the commission proposal, which responds to parliament's resolutions of march 1998 on the green paper on the general principles of eu food law and of june 2001 on the white paper on food safety. i particularly support the introduction of general principles and conditions for the use of claims and welcome the creation of the list of nutrition claims, conditions for comparative claims, the distinction between health claims relating to bodily functions and those relating to the reduction of disease risk or the definition of a consumer based on the ecj judgments. however, there are several aspects of the proposal which need improvement. furthermore, i believe that a ban on all general and implied health claims would be a disproportionate measure. existing legislation on misleading advertising and food labelling already prohibits the use of misleading claims. i therefore believe that it would be preferable to enforce existing legislation more consistently and more effectively than to introduce legislation whose good implementation is unlikely.
in writing. − i support this draft regulation and stress the importance of creating a list of permitted health claims for food other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk or to children's development and health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on permitted health claims for food, considering that nutrition and health claims must not be false, ambiguous or misleading.
in writing. − it is essential to ensure that consumers are properly informed so that they know exactly what food they are consuming and can make an informed and conscious choice without being told characteristics that are not entirely true or factual. this may indeed be the case with food-related health claims. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − as regards the health claims regulation, in force since 2006, nutritional profiles are still to be implemented. it's extremely difficult to divide food into good and bad food. there's only one good and one less good diet or lifestyle. so it makes no sense to evaluate food individually. i therefore disagree that an arbitrary and unjustified condition should now be introduced for a health claim. this is not the correct way to establish nutritional profiles.
in writing. − the commission proposal to amend regulation no 432/2012, which the european parliament resolution sought to oppose, aims to introduce carbohydrates in the annex (list of permitted health claims) with the health claim carbohydrates contribute to the maintenance of normal brain function. this claim may only be made if the consumer is informed that the beneficial effect is obtained with a daily intake of 130 g of carbohydrates from all sources. the rules for the use of the health claim are further laid down only for foods containing at least 20 g of carbohydrates metabolised by humans, excluding polyols, and containing the nutrition claim low in shakers or no added sugars, ensuring that the use of the claim will not contribute to an increase in the consumption of sugars, taking into account dietary recommendations. we believe that the claim and the transparent rules for its use are correct, given the clear information that is intended to be made available to the consumer, and we therefore supported the commission's proposal by voting against the resolution which objected to it.
in writing. − nutrition and health claims must not be false, ambiguous or misleading as provided for in article 3 (2) (a) of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 432/2012 establishes a list of permitted health claims made on foods other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk or to children's development and health.
in writing. − i approve of this report, starting from the fact that, as regards animal welfare, the easa states that information on the monitoring of pig health and welfare has been grossly under-utilized, that the sensitivity of the perception of welfare conditions for the purpose of detecting cases is generally higher in the monitoring of slaughterhouses than in the passive reporting by producers, that the use of welfare outcome indicators in the slaughterhouse is valuable for monitoring welfare on the holding, during transport and treatment before slaughter and that 'there will be a reduced likelihood of detection when the transition from the current pigmeat inspection regimes to the proposed modified (visual only) regimes. in view of this, a number of measures have to be taken. whereas, more specifically, in order to comply with the requirements laid down in regulation (ec) no 854/2004 and to ensure the proper control and verification of food business operators, routine incision and palpation procedures of organs by official veterinarians and appropriate sampling are essential.
in writing. − i oppose the adoption of this draft regulation as i consider that the measures proposed in the draft commission regulation should first be assessed in the context of the above-mentioned commission proposal of 6 may 2013 on official controls before any specific measures are taken on the reduction of the control tasks of official veterinarians.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on foodstuffs and animal products, considering that, in view of the accelerated processing of large slaughterhouses, the reduction of the tasks of official veterinarians, in particular by restricting incision and palpation procedures, could prevent potential dangers to human health from being detected and facilitate the entry into the food chain of meat unfit for human consumption.
in writing. − it is essential to ensure that consumers are properly informed so that they know exactly what food they are consuming, making a conscious and informed choice, without being given characteristics that are not entirely true or factual, thus ensuring high food safety standards. since i believe that this may not be fully ensured in the draft commission regulation amending the annexes to regulations (ec) no 853/2004 and (ec) no 854/2004 of the european parliament and of the council and regulation (ec) no 2074/2005, i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the resolution objecting to the commission proposal which essentially amends three annexes to regulations relating to: (i) specific rules for food business operators on the hygiene of food of animal origin; (ii) rules on official controls for trichinella in meat; and (iii) the conditions under which meat from animals which have been subjected to emergency slaughter outside the slaughterhouse is fit for human consumption was rejected. the commission proposal calls into question the work of official veterinarians, reducing their tasks and making their work more difficult. as a result, the number of unchecked and unverified body parts may increase. in addition, given the rapid processing rate of large slaughterhouses, the changes in question could lead to situations where potential hazards to human health are not detected, where meat unfit for human consumption may enter the food chain, or where abnormalities such as abscesses or tumours are not detected in breach of animal welfare rules, and if organs are not properly examined, the likelihood of epizootic disease detection may even be reduced. we voted against the commission's proposal.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 853/2004 specifies hygiene rules for food of animal origin. regulation (ec) no 854/2004 lays down the general principles for official controls, including compliance with community legislation on hygiene, animal by-products and animal welfare, and provides that the official veterinarian is responsible for determining whether meat is fit for human consumption. chapter i of section i of annex i to that regulation specifies that the veterinarian must ensure that the procedures carried out by food business operators are followed at all times, ensuring that the meat is free from any abnormalities or pathophysiological changes, and that additional examinations such as incision and palpation may be carried out for this purpose. the amendment to the regulation proposed by the commission would allow such additional examinations only if epidemiological data or food chain information, ante-mortem inspection findings or post-mortem visual detection of relevant anomalies indicate risks to public or animal health or animal welfare. this change may result in potential hazards and/or abnormalities not being detected, as meat unfit for consumption may enter the food chain, putting human health at risk.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that, in general, chinese companies consider the union a stable investment environment, but also regret what they consider to be the existence of certain obstacles to trade in the european market. however, i would remind that china has recently established a mechanism to screen foreign investment on the basis of security and that the use of such mechanisms by both sides may be based on legitimate reasons, stressing that the eu and china may have legitimate security concerns that justify the total or partial exclusion of foreign investment from some sectors on a temporary or long-term basis. however, it is concerned about the unreliability of the chinese judicial system, which is unable to enforce contractual obligations, and the lack of transparency and uniformity in the application of the investment regulatory regime. i therefore urge the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-china investment agreement, which aims to create a more favourable environment for eu investors in china and vice versa.
in writing. − due to the high and growing volume of trade, i consider the eu-china bilateral investment negotiation to be of the utmost importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support a balanced relationship between the eu and china, based on partnership, high-level dialogue and mutual benefit, rather than competition based on confrontation. in view of the commitments it has made, china should be more committed to liberalizing its trade and opening up its market in order to ensure a more level playing field.
in writing. - china today invests, researches and produces and attracts foreign investment. i believe that economic relations between the eu and china will tend to strengthen. negotiations with china must be conducted with ambition and realism, seeking a fair balance between european values and interests and the ability to show openness to the chinese counterpart. i hope that a mutually beneficial agreement will be reached.
in writing. the european union should give priority to the conclusion of economic agreements with china which value respect for social rights, human dignity and the environment. eu-china trade has been growing rapidly and steadily over the past decades: the total value of transactions peaked at eur 433,8 billion in 2012, with the bilateral trade imbalance largely in china's favour, and the eu has much to gain from deepening this relationship. chinese companies see the eu as a stable investment environment, but they complain of obstacles, especially agricultural protectionism and technical barriers to trade. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to demonstrate that the measures were in line with the market economy investor principle. important for fostering economic growth, an eu-china investment agreement must be ambitious and balanced, ensuring a climate of greater confidence, security and transparency for investors on both sides, promoting fair competition between public and private actors, respecting the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) guidelines on corporate governance, fighting corruption and fostering legal certainty and a predictable business climate.
in writing. - the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). first, in order to strengthen economic relations, china should be more committed to liberalizing its trade and opening up its market. eliminate all protectionist measures. it is also called for a level playing field between state-owned enterprises and private enterprises in access to the chinese market. anyway, the usual tiresome unraveling of the neoliberal booklet... parliament also stressed the need to include provisions on transparency and governance of state-owned enterprises and sovereign wealth funds in the future agreement. finally, the usual and tedious challenge also of the rosary of interference of all order. the resolution criticises china for its weak protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) and the unreliability of its judicial system. the commission is also concerned about the weak or non-existent implementation of social, labour and environmental rights. so preaches the friar thomas... underlying this resolution is the move from fdi to eu exclusive competence with the lisbon treaty. hence this eu-china investment agreement. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − over the past three decades, trade flows between the eu and china have been growing. there is, however, a great imbalance in the reciprocity of the values involved. the same can be said when we talk about investment from the eu and china and vice versa. the strengthening of eu-china economic relations is noteworthy, and a balanced relationship based on partnership, high-level dialogue and mutual benefit, rather than competition based on confrontation, needs to be developed. with china's accession to the wto in 2001, china should show greater commitment to the liberalisation of its trade and the opening up of its market, in order to ensure fairer conditions of competition and to accelerate the removal of artificial barriers faced by companies when accessing the chinese market. there are still too many tariff and non-tariff barriers to the chinese market, such as some forms of discrimination against foreign operators, as well as the complexity of the tariff structure and technical barriers to trade. i hope that these negotiations will overcome these obstacles so that in the future this partnership will be beneficial to both sides.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the first investment agreement to be negotiated by the eu within its overall competences after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the negotiations on this investment agreement, including market access, have been conducted with the utmost transparency in order to allow for the necessary parliamentary follow-up, thus fulfilling one of the preconditions for a possible approval by the european parliament of the outcome of the negotiations. i would stress, among the recommendations made by the european parliament, that investors should respect both the legislation of the host country and the provisions of any agreement concluded between the eu and china, when it enters into force, in order to benefit fully from the best possible protection of their investments and that the investment agreement should not have the effect of further lowering social and environmental standards in china, but on the contrary, contribute to improving them as a precondition, leading to a more balanced trade and mutually beneficial investment relationship.
in writing. − trade between the european union and china has been growing rapidly and steadily over the past three decades, with the total value of transactions peaking at eur 433.8 billion in 2012. however, there remains a bilateral trade imbalance which has been favourable to china since 1997 and worsened to eur 146 billion in 2012. i am voting in favour of this resolution which aims to encourage bilateral business between the two global powers, and it is important that european companies can invest freely in china and that there is strong protection of the principles of intellectual priority. however, i believe it is essential to improve the political dialogue between the eu and china, including through effective and results-oriented dialogue on human rights. in the field of the rule of law, political and economic relations should be maintained on an equal footing, in line with the spirit of the strategic partnership.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by recalling that the eu and taiwan already have a well-integrated economic relationship, generally with low customs duties on both sides and a well-structured dialogue, meeting regularly to resolve bilateral trade and investment issues. i stress that the agreement should include the parties' strong commitment to sustainable and inclusive development in economic, social and environmental terms, in relation to investment, and i note that investment agreements concluded by the eu should respect the capacity for public intervention, in particular when pursuing public policy objectives, for example in the areas of social and environmental standards, human rights, safety, workers' and consumers' rights, public health and safety and cultural diversity.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' in the definition of motor vehicles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu-taiwan trade relationship is currently far below its potential and that further economic relations need to be deepened in a way that is truly beneficial for both sides in order to meet common challenges.
in writing. - taiwan is a political and economic success story which should be examined in detail by its neighbours. regardless of any future political rapprochement with the people's republic of china and the resulting international status, it is right to recognise taiwan's role as an important trading partner of the european union and to promote increased european trade with the country. in this respect, taiwan's proposals to open negotiations on bilateral agreements on investment protection and market access in order to enhance legal certainty for investment and the volume and quality of investment flows seem to point in a mutually favourable direction which should be pursued in my view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the us and the us.
in writing. − in full respect of the open and regulated multilateral trading system within the world trade organisation (wto) and in the defence of open and fair trade on a global scale, the establishment of bilateral agreements with taiwan presents a unique opportunity to strengthen the european union's assertion as a global player. the total amount of bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan has increased more than twelve-fold in the last two decades, reaching more than eur 40 billion in 2011. in addition, taiwan is the eu's 7th largest trading partner in asia and the eu's 23rd largest trading partner in the world. the eu is the largest foreign investor in taiwan. however, the overall trade relationship between the eu and taiwan is currently well below its potential. it is therefore important to deepen economic relations in a mutually beneficial way, in the conviction that open and fair trade is a powerful tool for generating more growth and welfare, while respecting social and environmental rights.
in writing. - this resolution is a tribute to taiwan's liberal line and its submission to wto guidelines. a hymn to free and unregulated trade, then. it stressed the importance of the open multilateral system and of regulation in the wto as the most appropriate framework for achieving open and fair trade worldwide. taiwan, as a full wto member, has already implemented many of the necessary measures. in relation to trade issues with the eu, customs duties between the two trading partners are generally at low levels. taiwan has acceded to the wto agreement on government procurement (gpa), which will allow for reciprocal opening of markets. the resolution also stresses the various bilateral investment agreements and global income tax agreements concluded by taiwan with various countries. this resolution is intended to contrast eu-taiwan relations with eu-china relations. on the one hand we have liberal, democratic taiwan, which respects human rights, and on the other hand we have china, which is closed, protectionist and which has no implementation of social, labour and environmental rights. we voted against both resolutions.
in writing. − the open and regulated multilateral trading system, established through the world trade organisation (wto), is arguably the most appropriate framework for achieving open and fair trade on a global scale. bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan has increased exponentially in recent decades. at the same time as the negotiations with china are taking place, it makes perfect sense to develop negotiations for trade relations with taiwan. i hope that the negotiations will be successful and bring economic development to both sides.
in writing. − the eu and taiwan already have a well-integrated economic relationship, generally with low customs duties on both sides and a well-structured dialogue, meeting regularly to resolve bilateral trade and investment issues. however, there is a willingness to formalise an agreement that includes a strong commitment by the parties to sustainable and inclusive development in economic, social and environmental terms in relation to investment. investment agreements concluded by the eu should respect public intervention capacity, in particular when pursuing public policy objectives, for example in the areas of social and environmental standards, human rights, safety, labour and consumer rights, public health and safety and cultural diversity. this resolution calls for specific clauses on these objectives to be included in the agreement. in any case, the viability and sustainability of some eu-specific production sectors and products should be safeguarded, such as the canned fish industry, in particular canned tuna, which is of major socioeconomic importance in the eu, particularly in the southern european countries. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − in recent decades, trade relations between the european union and taiwan have been gaining momentum, but the eu still runs a trade deficit with the asian country. i believe that there is a need to strengthen the dialogue between the eu and taiwan, especially as there is already a well-integrated economic relationship, generally with low customs duties on both sides and a well-structured dialogue, meeting regularly to resolve bilateral trade and investment issues. i would also like to stress that the priority relations which the eu intends to establish with china must be taken into account and that these should be treated with caution in the trade relationship with taiwan.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, starting by calling on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation laying down technical requirements and administrative procedures for air operations. i would stress that regulations on flight time have a strong impact on the safety of air transport and the social interests of crew members, as do driving and rest times in road transport, and that decisions on such regulations are clearly political in nature. i would stress that these regulations on flight time involve important political issues which must be addressed at an early stage during the preparation of legislative reports on codecision, in full transparency for european citizens, the european council and the european parliament. i believe that new rules are needed to avoid fatigue of crew members and therefore i invite the commission to submit as a matter of urgency a new draft regulation which meets the requirements of the mandate and respects the principle of proportionality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on technical requirements and administrative procedures for air operations, as i considered that the commission exceeded its mandate by transferring to the easa the power to amend certification specifications in the areas of reduced rest periods and prevention, and that the proposed rules are insufficient to prevent fatigue of pilots in flight and to ensure the safety of passengers, crew and overflown populations.
in writing. - having regard to the technical specifications of the matter and the safety regulations in force, particularly as regards air transport, i vote against the motion for a resolution. this is a matter of regulation where the decision-making process must be based on the intervention of duly qualified experts, to the detriment of the concepts developed in the context of the political debate. i would also like to highlight the strong development of the safety measures that the european union has promoted in the aviation sector.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution and we regret that it has been ignored by the majority of this parliament. the resolution was intended to reject a proposal from the european commission which, under the false pretext of greater safety (an argument which, not by chance, the commission borrows from the major airlines), seeks to change the rules on flight time, opening the door to longer working hours for pilots and cabin crew. this proposal contradicts the available scientific studies and evidence, presented in at least five reports, relating to the factors of fatigue, night work and sleep deprivation. working and safety conditions are compromised with flight periods exceeding 10 hours and a maximum combined duration of prevention periods and flight duty periods subject to a maximum of 18 hours. it is unacceptable that the safety of crew, pilots and passengers is jeopardised by requiring 11-hour working hours, affecting workers' rights and their lives in order to serve the interests and profits of the aviation monopolies once again. we note once again that the right and the social democrats have joined hands to increase this burden on the big employers in the sector.
in writing. − the european commission proposal was intended to create a single legislation for civil aviation safety, as it sets limits and ceilings that do not exist in current european legislation and updates, according to scientific criteria and after consulting stakeholders, facts such as maximum flight and standby time. i believe that the commission's proposal is appropriate to the requirements of the sector and the desirable safety levels in this activity, and i therefore disagree with the position taken by the rapporteur and the committee responsible and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the committee on transport, which proposes to reject the european commission's proposal to implement new rules containing a large number of provisions against what scientific experts consider to be safe, allowing, for example, working hours of up to 22 hours for pilots and cabin crew or night flights lasting between 11 and 12 and a half hours when scientific work on this subject rejects working hours in these conditions exceeding nine or ten hours. we will continue to fight against this and other decisions which insist on putting financial interests ahead of the common interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the committee on transport, which proposes to reject the european commission's proposal to implement new rules containing a large number of provisions against what scientific experts consider to be safe, allowing, for example, working hours of up to 22 hours for pilots and cabin crew or night flights lasting between 11 and 12.30 hours, when scientific work on this subject rejects working hours in these conditions exceeding nine or ten hours. we will continue to fight against this and other decisions which insist on putting financial interests ahead of the common interest.
in writing. − the european commission (ec) proposal on ftl aims to create a single legislation for civil aviation safety, as it sets limits and ceilings on elements that do not exist in current european legislation and updates, according to scientific criteria and meetings with stakeholders, facts such as the maximum weekly and night flight time, maximum standby limits, extension of the period considered to be night. from the implementing measures the ec has presented the so-called certification specifications on ftl, to establish minimum rules in the member states. where the rules of a particular member state are more protective than those of the ftl, they shall override the harmonised rules of the ftl. for these reasons, and because i believe that the ec is balancing the safety of pilots and crew in their daily work, i am voting against this motion for a resolution, since it is intended to overturn the proposals put forward by the ec.
in writing. - i support this resolution, starting by stressing the importance of looking concretely at this stage at whether, how and when member states can make more efforts to strengthen their protection response to syria. i stress the need for solidarity and for proactively strengthening the overall protection response in the eu, including through increased cooperation, information sharing, capacity building and political dialogue. i welcome the general consensus among member states that syrian citizens should not be returned to syria, but stress the need for a more coherent and more solidarity-based approach towards member states facing increased pressure to take in refugees from syria.
in writing. - i welcome the principles contained in this resolution, in which the european parliament calls on the eu to continue to provide humanitarian aid to refugees and to guarantee them safe entry and access to fair asylum procedures in the eu. in addition to humanitarian efforts, there should be a reinforced role and participation of the eu in diplomatic efforts, thus contributing to the end of the conflict in syria. there is a general consensus among european countries that syrian citizens should not be returned to their country of origin. but a possible influx of refugees into eu member states requires responsible action, and for this there must be contingency plans drawn up by the commission and the member states.
in writing. - syria is the scene of one of the greatest international crises. the destruction of chemical weapons is an important step, but the international community, the eu and its member states must continue to make every effort to bring the conflict to an end. the humanitarian crisis in syria has reached gigantic proportions, with some 93,000 dead and a refugee population of over two million, of which some 76% are women and children. solidarity and humanitarian action are essential! despite the enormous pressure being exerted on neighbouring countries, especially lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq, these countries continue to maintain a policy of openness and to show strong signs of solidarity towards these refugees. europe too must show solidarity. in this respect, i welcome the fact that the eu is now the leading donor of financial aid for humanitarian purposes to syrian citizens both inside syria and to refugees in neighbouring countries. i also welcome the solidarity shown by some nine member states in response to the appeals of the unhcr. we need to show that europe has a heart by not only helping these refugees, but also by providing them with the help they need to rebuild their country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because, given that the current humanitarian crisis in syria is very serious and should concern everyone, it calls on the eu to continue its funding for humanitarian and non-humanitarian actions and thus help to overcome some of the most pressing needs of the population in syria and of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries.
in writing. - there has been a lot of talk about the ways of resolving the syrian issue and there is now almost unanimity on the need for a political solution. regardless of the political and military solution to the conflict, there is today a problem of enormous magnitude that must be addressed with humanity and consideration: that of the more than two million refugees and the four and a half million displaced syrians. these figures show the scale of the problem and indicate how it will inevitably affect the neighbouring countries and the european union itself. but behind each number there is a person and his circumstances of extreme suffering, whom we should seek to attend to to the best of our ability. the eu member states should seek to assess whether they have the capacity to take in more refugees and to continue their humanitarian and material support to the syrian population. in this sense, an international conference on the humanitarian situation in syria, sponsored by the european union, would be a clear sign of this commitment.
in writing. - the european union should step up mechanisms and resources to minimise the human suffering of syrian citizens of all ages who have been forced to seek refuge in other countries. the total number of syrian refugees is over two million, the vast majority of whom are women and children. this situation is also having an impact in the eu, with a substantial increase in asylum applications, especially in germany and sweden. in this process, it is important that the recently revised common european asylum system (ceas) plays a key role, particularly in the issue of humanitarian visas. the eu should also strongly support and encourage neighbouring countries to maintain a stance of solidarity and open borders to syrian refugees.
in writing. - this resolution reveals the usual hypocrisy of the majority of this parliament. a majority which is complicit in the conflict in syria because it supports the so-called rebels, the eu and nato powers and the dictatorial monarchies of the gulf cooperation council, which continue to finance, train, arm and bring in terrorist groups from, among others, turkey and jordan, in order to fuel the internal conflict, killing and injuring innocent civilians and destroying the country's infrastructure. they support designated rebel groups that impose sectarian religious practices and lifestyles that violate secularism, that disrespect women's rights. and they express concern later about the consequences of that support. if there were genuine concern about the influx of refugees into syria's neighbouring countries and the eu, there would be no pressure and interference on syria - a bigger reason why thousands of refugees continue to leave syria every day. the most important action that member states and the eu should take to help stem the flow of refugees would be to respect international law and the sovereignty of syria, end support for terrorist groups and support a process of political dialogue with a view to a peaceful solution.
in writing. − as of 20 september 2013, the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) has registered almost 2 million refugees, the overwhelming majority of whom are women and children. with the current humanitarian crisis in syria, and with the strong pressure being exerted on the neighbouring countries in the region, coupled with the number of syrians risking their lives by making dangerous boat crossings of the mediterranean to reach the european union, solidarity among the peoples is called for. the measures recommended to enable the admission of refugees are not enough, more is needed, but the direction is correct. this motion for a resolution is welcome and should be applauded.
in writing. - what is happening in syria is in every way unspeakable. we must condemn in the strongest possible terms the massacre of civilians with chemical weapons on 21 august 2013, which, according to western intelligence services, has claimed the lives of at least 1400 people, including 400 children. since the use of chemical weapons was most likely the responsibility of the syrian government, the international community cannot stand idly by. the proven use of chemical weapons, especially against civilians, is a flagrant violation of international law. i therefore support the initiatives being taken by the eu and the united states to oblige the syrian government to stop the use of chemical weapons against civilians. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on member states to examine all existing eu legislation and procedures to allow safe entry into the eu in order to temporarily admit syrian citizens who are fleeing their country, preferring legal entry into the eu to a more dangerous irregular entry involving various risks. the eu cannot ignore the people who are most in need and who are looking for it. but it also lacks the means to properly welcome all refugees, particularly at a time when unemployment and poverty rates are rising among europeans. in this context, it is important to work towards solutions/measures that are satisfactory and worthy for both parties.
in writing. − as of 20 september 2013, the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) has registered almost 2 million refugees, the overwhelming majority of whom are women and children. the current humanitarian crisis in syria, the pressure being exerted on the neighbouring countries in the region, and the number of syrians risking their lives by making the dangerous boat crossings of the mediterranean to reach the european union call for solidarity among peoples. the measures recommended to enable the admission of refugees are not enough, more is needed, but the direction is correct. this motion for a resolution is welcome and should be applauded.
in writing. the european parliament expressed its deep concern today at the current humanitarian crisis in syria and the heavy pressure being exerted on its neighbouring countries, expressing its concern at the fact that the refugee outflow continues to increase with no end in sight. i have voted in favour of this document, commending the efforts and solidarity shown by the authorities of these countries and the generosity of their people in providing aid to the refugees from syria.
in writing. - this resolution reveals the usual dose of hypocrisy of a majority which is complicit in the conflict in syria, which supports the so-called rebels, the eu and nato powers and the dictatorial monarchies of the gulf cooperation council which continue to finance, train, arm and let in terrorist groups from, in particular, turkey and jordan, to fuel the internal conflict, killing, injuring innocent civilians, some of them in macabre ways, and destroying the country's infrastructure. they support designated rebel groups that impose sectarian religious practices and lifestyles that violate secularism, that disrespect women's rights. finally, if there were genuine concern about the influx of refugees into syria's neighbouring countries and the eu, there would be no pressure and interference on syria with a view to a military attack, which is another reason why thousands of refugees continue to leave syria every day. the most important action that member states and the eu should take to help stem the flow of refugees would be to respect international law and the sovereignty of syria, end support for terrorist groups and support a process of political dialogue with a view to a peaceful solution.
madam president, i would like to begin by making two fundamental points: the first idea is that extremism, right-wing extremism, is very dangerous. it's in europe, spread out over many countries. it is not just greece, but left-wing extremism is also very dangerous and many countries, including my own, have experienced it in very difficult stages and therefore we must fight all those who are enemies of democracy and who want to impose their views in some way. in saying this i wanted to draw attention to the fact that there are certain movements which use democracy but which have profoundly anti-democratic attitudes, for example ukip, which has so often said that the bulgarians and romanians are the culprits of the crime in london. it means that some parties, which themselves do not identify as far-right parties, have attitudes, have behaviors that clearly encourage extremism in their societies, and so what we find is that there is a common denominator between the extremes: it is their anti-europeanism.
in writing. at a time when popular discontent and mass unemployment are increasing in the face of austerity measures, far-right phenomena are emerging in several european countries, gaining media visibility and electoral strength. this is what is happening today with the national front parties in france or with golden dawn in greece. in the member states as a whole, the number of people who belong to political parties and influence political activity is less than 4% of the total number of citizens by country, and it is imperative that the european union develops awareness campaigns on the importance of everyone actively participating in building the future of their country and the european project. in the face of the constraints of economic and financial austerity and the growth of extremism throughout europe, it is imperative that political parties adapt to the new realities of citizens, open themselves to society and be available to listen to their needs and aspirations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mrs reding, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, because the ends do not justify the means, we strongly condemn these abusive and illegal practices in the fight against terrorism, including extraordinary renditions, kidnapping, detention without trial, disappearances, secret detention and torture. we demand full investigations into the complicity of some member states with american authorities. we have decided to follow up politically and to monitor developments on the basis of the recommendations we adopted in plenary. we regret to note the lack of commitment on the part of some member states to investigate european involvement in the cia programme. it is regrettable that there is still a delay in carrying out independent and effective investigations which would allow concrete evidence to be gathered and provide full clarification and accountability for the human rights violations committed under this programme, so that reparation and compensation can be made to the victims, as vice-president reding said, and to ensure that the same events are not repeated in the future. i do, however, believe that investigations by member states must be based on sound evidence and respect for national judicial systems and european union law. the council should make an effort to clear up the bad image that this parliament and the citizens have had of its actions during this process, starting by showing a more active role in supporting the truth-finding and accountability work of the member states and ensuring that it will not lie to parliament again as it has in the past. the european people's party reaffirms its commitment to the values of the rule of law and to the defence and protection of the fundamental rights of the human person. i want to make it very clear that the different votes that most of the members of this house will take on various points of the resolution are due to disagreements over the text and not over the principles we share. finally, i would like to thank hélène flautre for all the remarkable work she has done in the libe committee.
i thank hélène flautre for the work that led us to this resolution, in which we note that the governments of the member states and candidate countries, the commission and the council and the united states authorities continue to fail to respond to calls for the implementation of earlier recommendations of this parliament on the serious human rights violations inflicted on victims of the cia rendition programmes, with kidnapping, torture and imprisonment in guantánamo and secret prisons. in the context of this parliament's inquiry, i myself directed further requests for clarification on 27 aircraft which i identified in portuguese territory between september 2001 and august 2006. the letter i sent in october 2011 to the current portuguese government remains, regrettably, unanswered. this is despite european and national court decisions and new ngo reports confirming the complicity of european authorities in these gross human rights violations and the cover-up is obviously itself a crime. the impunity of the criminals responsible for these programmes has encouraged the violation of fundamental rights in the counter-terrorism policies of the european union and the united states of america, as revealed by the prism programmes of the us national security agency and the operation socialist of the british gchq agency on the belgacom company. under the pretext of fighting terrorism, which is not fought - until it is helped - by obscene and criminal methods, this organized and unpunished crime is transformed into industrial and political espionage, with the appropriation of personal data and the violation of privacy. in this way, american intelligence agencies and their european counterparts are exposed to the eyes of citizens as criminal hives, providers of individual and collective insecurity. and the national security competence to which the council representative referred is a monumental ballet! this overreaching of the orwellian imagination would be prevented if parliamentary control were exercised, which has failed miserably in the united states, where congress has powers it has not exercised. and it fails in europe because the national parliaments do not exercise their powers either and because this parliament does not yet have them. the longer this persists, the more we will continue to fail our citizens and our democracies. and we will face serious mistrust and tensions in the transatlantic relationship, such as those which at present call for the suspension of the safe harbour, swift and pnr agreements. the speaker agrees to answer a question blue card (rule 149 (8))
blue-card answer. – what is criminal is the appropriation of data and the violation of citizens’ privacy. anything that is against the law, which allows for an extensive interpretation of existing agreements and which infringes upon the rights of citizens, is not the right way to conduct the fight against terrorism. indeed it plays into the hands of the terrorists and sows the seeds of suspicion in the minds of our citizens.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner malmström, ladies and gentlemen, we have all spoken about the tragedy of lampedusa and, contrary to what some have said, this reinforces the sense of responsibility in the european response. there are european answers we have to give and one of them has to do with what parliament is doing. we are working on the regulation on the surveillance of the external maritime borders in the context of frontex missions, after the court of justice of the european union annulled the council decision. so far it has not been clear that this is a priority for the lithuanian presidency. i would like to leave the call to the lithuanian presidency to make this one of its priorities in the wake of this tragedy. saving human lives is something that cannot be questioned, especially by any vessel that is in a position to do so. this requires the necessary amendments to the existing legislation, creating greater clarity and legal certainty. on the other hand, as has already been said, the increasing flow of immigrants is not limited to the countries most affected: greece, italy, malta, spain and cyprus. it is a phenomenon which is felt in all the member states. we therefore need more solidarity. shared responsibility and solidarity are indispensable factors in ensuring that the fundamental rights of asylum seekers, refugees and migrants are fully respected in the european union.
in writing. in 2010, i could not support either the tftp interim agreement, which in my view called into question the respect for the principles of necessity and proportionality and the integrity and security of european financial data, or the final tftp agreement, because although it enshrined a whole series of improvements compared to the interim agreement, the level of protection enshrined was not yet acceptable. despite the remaining weaknesses in this agreement, namely the possibility of bulk data transfer, the choice of europol as the data protection supervisory authority, and the famous article 20 which calls into question the effective application of the rights enshrined in american territory, it is nevertheless notorious that the us authorities have not respected it, having collected data from european citizens, in accordance with the nsa surveillance programme, outside this agreement. the information that has come to light is of extraordinary gravity and requires rapid clarification. i hope that commissioner malmström's initiatives will be pursued effectively and that the eu is prepared to suspend the agreement if it is confirmed that it has been breached.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is 21 years since the agreement establishing the european economic area was signed. this agreement enabled the single market to be extended to the three countries of the european free trade association - iceland, liechtenstein and norway. the agreement also allowed economic and trade relations between the parties to be strengthened by creating an area of complete freedom of movement based on the four fundamental freedoms of the internal market. to get a sense of the scale and success of this economic area, it is enough to note that in 2012 the value of trade transactions was 160 billion euros. this is despite the fact that the single market is not yet fully realised. two decades later, san marino, andorra and monaco have all expressed their desire to strengthen their relations with the european union. the enlargement of the internal market will boost economic growth for all participants and can be a positive factor for the economic growth and job creation that europe so needs. we expect this to be confirmed in an impact study which is being carried out and which the commissioner has told us about. in conclusion, the european union must assess, act and decide, assess the functioning of the european economic area and the agreement that created it, act by eliminating gaps and filling in shortcomings and by focusing on creating conditions to optimise the potential of the internal market and decide to strengthen relations with san marino, andorra and monaco in a consistent and coherent manner.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of this parliament to the very disturbing and alarming reports that we are getting from libya, where prime minister ali zeidan was kidnapped by an armed group early this morning. fortunately the news is that he has now been released. this illustrates how the situation in libya is very fraught, with tremendous challenges. we europeans can make a difference. i, as your standing rapporteur, spent last weekend in libya, accompanied in context by our head of delegation, mrs nataliya apostolova. i would just like to say that this is the moment for us to express our solidarity to all those in libya who want a democratic future and the rule of law... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that successive eu enlargements have brought the union closer to the kingdom of jordan and have provided the opportunity to develop an increasingly close relationship, marked by significant measures of economic integration and deepening political cooperation. jordan's geographical location also makes it a strategic country for the stability and security of the middle east, while at the same time making it particularly vulnerable to external shocks, both politically and economically. jordan is currently facing the enormous challenge of providing adequate humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees settling on its territory. the syrian crisis and the high number of refugees arriving in jordan are putting enormous pressure on the country's financial resources. they are also having a devastating impact on jordan's economy, which is suffering from the lack of trade with syria. in the light of the above, it is essential that appropriate support is provided to jordan, not only in view of its responsibilities for humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees, but also to preserve the political and economic stability of the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the framework agreement between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on the participation of jordan in union programmes will allow for intensified dialogue and cooperation with that country and also sends a positive message about the importance of eu-jordan relations.
in writing. - jordan has long been a stabilizing factor in the middle east and the efforts of its last two monarchs in this regard should be welcomed. both hussein and abdullah have stood out in the region as promoters of peace, understanding and progress, seeking to reform their own country so that it comes ever closer to western models. if it is true that much remains to be done in this respect, it is no less true to note the remarkable progress made by the hashemite kingdom of jordan, which, despite the scarcity of resources, has been taking in palestinian and syrian refugees, which has put a huge strain on its budget. the european union must strengthen its relationship with jordan, give it full support in the difficult tasks it faces and regard it as a reliable and privileged partner in the region.
in writing. - with a view to promoting the values and principles of the acquis communautaire, in particular in the field of defence of democracy, freedom, the rule of law, good governance, human dignity and social rights, i support the conclusion of agreements strengthening the european union's relations with the mediterranean region and the hashemite kingdom of jordan in particular. jordan's geographical location makes it a strategic country for the stability and security of the middle east, where it has played a proactive and constructive role in seeking lasting solutions to various conflicts. it is also particularly vulnerable to external shocks, both politically and economically. it is now faced with the problematic situation in syria and the need to provide adequate humanitarian aid to refugees, which is bringing with it problems of social tension, unsustainable urban planning and a worsening budget deficit. it is therefore all the more urgent to help jordan in an intervention that will help to intensify the reforms that will consolidate democracy, accountability, transparency and justice.
in writing. - the conclusion of this protocol creates an award for good services rendered by the kingdom of jordan. we are witnessing a demonstration of support for the jordanian king, whose regime is trying to survive the growing wave of indignation and struggle that has swept through several countries in the middle east, including jordan itself, where the struggle for better living conditions, political and democratic rights has shaken the king's power. the pressures of the struggle led him to make temporary concessions, and in some apparent cases, to allow the reaction to be reorganized and the forces loyal to the king to converge with imperialism, reaching out to sectarian and islamist forces, to contain the advance of the forces defending progress and social justice in the country. the loans from king abdullah ii, namely the opening of the kingdom's borders to the installation of the rearguard of the us, french and british intelligence services, to the promotion of the passage, training and arming of the terrorist groups that they have recruited to enter syria, to kill, plunder and destroy, will be paid with technical and humanitarian support and adequate funding. the question is, where is the concern for human rights, democracy and syrian refugees in this story?
in writing. − in october 2010, at the 9th meeting of the eu-jordan association council, both sides reached agreement on the first european neighbourhood policy (enp) action plan. successive enlargements of the eu have brought the union closer to the kingdom of jordan and provided the opportunity to develop an increasingly close relationship marked by significant measures of economic integration and deepening political cooperation. jordan's geographical location also makes it a strategic country for the stability and security of the middle east. jordan is currently facing the enormous challenge of providing adequate humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees settling on its territory. according to jordanian authorities, the number of syrian refugees in the country has already exceeded 500,000 and it is estimated that every day 3,000 refugees cross the border between syria and jordan. in the light of the above, it is essential that appropriate support is provided to jordan, not only in view of its responsibilities for humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees, but also to preserve the political and economic stability of the country. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − successive eu enlargements have brought the union closer to the kingdom of jordan and have provided the opportunity to develop an increasingly close relationship marked by significant measures of economic integration and deepening political cooperation. jordan's geographical location also makes it a strategic country for the stability and security of the middle east, while at the same time making it particularly vulnerable to external shocks, both politically and economically. it is essential that appropriate support is provided to jordan, not only in view of its responsibilities for humanitarian assistance to syrian refugees, but also to preserve the political and economic stability of the country. i therefore voted in favour of the framework agreement between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on jordan's participation in union programmes.
in writing. - parliament gave its approval to the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on the general principles governing the participation of the hashemite kingdom of jordan in union programmes. such an agreement is important for the provision of financial, technical and humanitarian support to jordan and also for the deepening of the economic and political dialogue between the eu and jordan. in addition, jordan has a constructive role to play in the effort to find solutions to the conflicts in the middle east. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the conclusion of this protocol with jordan is a reward for the good services rendered by the kingdom of jordan to the eu and nato powers and its neighbour israel in their plans to subjugate syria and for jordan's proactive and constructive role in the redrawing of the middle east by imperialism. it is an open support for the jordanian king whose regime is trying to survive the growing wave of indignation and struggle that has arisen in several countries in the middle east, including in jordan itself, where the struggle for better living conditions, for political and democratic rights has shaken the king's power. the pressures of the struggle led him to make temporary and in some cases only apparent concessions to allow the reorganization of the reaction and the convergence of the forces loyal to the king with imperialism. the loans from king abdullah ii, namely the opening of the kingdom's borders to the installation of the rearguard of the us, french and british intelligence services to facilitate the passage, training and arming of the terrorist groups they have recruited to enter syria, will be paid for with technical and humanitarian support and adequate funding equivalent to the opening of its borders allegedly to deal with the entry of syrian refugees.
in writing. - i support this report in supporting the continuation and development of the eurosur system, since border surveillance is an area where union action undeniably has a european added value compared to purely national measures. illegal immigration and cross-border crime are by their nature phenomena that extend beyond the territory of the member states. it should be noted, however, that the proposed financing scheme for eurosur is very complex, resulting from the three different levels of management (direct centralised management, indirect centralised management and shared management) and the financing schedule. in addition, as regards expenditure on the national coordination centres and measures implemented in neighbouring third countries, i would point out that there are no criteria for allocating resources.
in writing. − free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and the ability to move within the community without internal border controls is one of its most positive results. on the other hand, free movement is also fundamental to the success of the single market in europe. in this respect, schengen should be strengthened by better management of the external borders of the european union with the aim of ensuring full and mutual trust between member states. member states should therefore cooperate with neighbouring third countries in order to protect migrants, prevent irregular migration and combat cross-border crime. personal data should be shared and processed through eurosur only when necessary and in duly justified cases, with appropriate safeguards. furthermore, no personal data should be shared with third countries. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the new european border surveillance system (eurosur), approved today by the european parliament, which will better protect the eu's external borders and the lives of migrants. eurosur will improve the detection, prevention and combating of irregular migration and organised crime and help save the lives of migrants when they are in danger. member states will ensure respect for fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement, which prevents them from handing migrants over to a country where their life or liberties are threatened. thank you very much.
in writing. − the european border surveillance system - eurosur - is expected to become operational later this year, from 2 december, in all member states at the southern and eastern external borders (including portugal) and will be operational in the remaining member states from 1 december 2014. with a view to better sharing responsibilities in the management of the eu's external borders, this system will allow member states' authorities to cooperate and share operational information with each other and with frontex in order to reduce the loss of human life at sea, as well as to strengthen internal security by preventing cross-border crime such as trafficking in human beings and drug smuggling. it should thus contribute to improving the situational awareness and the response capacity of the member states and of frontex, with a huge potential to detect emergency situations and prevent tragedies like last week's in lampedusa from happening again. cooperation with neighbouring third countries is also of particular importance in ensuring the effectiveness of this system. it has also been safeguarded that the exchange and processing of personal data through eurosur may only take place where strictly necessary and in duly justified cases, with appropriate safeguards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it promotes the exchange of information and improves cooperation between member states and between the agencies involved in border surveillance. the proposed system is essential for a better sharing of responsibility in the management of external borders and for a better response to the influx of migrants into the european area, which often ends in tragedy.
in writing. - the tragic events off lampedusa are a striking example of the human despair and the difficulty that some member states, especially those exposed to illegal immigration, feel in controlling their borders, which are the external borders of the union. i deeply regret what has happened and regret that thousands of people have already lost their lives trying to reach european shores in search of better living conditions. i am in favour of a european union which is in solidarity with those who suffer the most and able to welcome them in cases of need, but at the same time i recognise the fundamental duty of the member states to ensure the stability of their populations and the sustainability of their states. i reject as a starting point for the debates on immigration and asylum both the idea of a fortress europe and the idea of an open-door europe. these maximalist positions do nothing to contribute to a thorough debate and to the difficult decisions which this matter necessarily entails. eurosur can be an important means of achieving this balanced strategy of firmness and humanity.
in writing. − improving the control and surveillance system at the external borders of the european union is an imperative to ensure greater reliability and effectiveness of free movement in the european area. it is in this context that i value the completion of the european border surveillance system (eurosur), which can also be crucial in helping member states to respect international maritime law and save the lives of migrants, especially from north africa. in this process, it is also crucial to ensure the exchange of information and to improve cooperation with neighbouring third countries, between member states and between the agencies involved, in particular europol, the eagf, the european maritime safety agency (emsa), the community fisheries control agency (cfp) and the european union satellite centre (eusc). i would, however, like to draw attention to the fact that the proposed funding scheme for eurosur is very complex, given the three different levels of management (direct centralised management, indirect centralised management and shared management) and the funding schedule covering the current mff and the 2014-2020 mff. it is therefore urgent to ensure that measures are taken to avoid jeopardising the budgetary support for the operation and implementation of the system.
in writing. - pressured by the media catastrophe of the death of more than 300 migrants off the italian island of lampedusa, when they were trying to reach europe by boat, the majority of this parliament finally accepted what was not initially in the proposal: the inclusion of respect for fundamental rights and the obligation to save lives at sea as some of the objectives of eurosur. victims of networks that extort money from them and promise to put them in europe - a goal on which they risk everything, including their lives, to try to escape war, persecution, unlawful work, hunger and poverty, simply to seek a better life - immigrants continue to face a fortress europe that labels them criminals and illegals, represses them and creates the conditions for catastrophes like lampedusa to continue to happen. despite the changes introduced, the creation of eurosur represents a step backwards in terms of immigrants' rights. these databases, with personal data and other information deemed relevant, will cost millions of euros. they will be shared by immigration services of different countries (including the possibility of 'sharing' with third countries), under the supervision of the european commission and the frontex agency, violating the rights, freedoms and guarantees of immigrants.
in writing. - i voted against because i believe that, despite the mention of the objective of saving lives at sea as part of the mission of eurosur, this is a system that reinforces fortress europe, and that does not actually want to save lives, but only so that immigrants can arrive alive in the european space and then be returned to the life and misery they want to escape. we cannot accept a european system which confuses the fight against cross-border crime with irregular immigration: migrants and asylum seekers cannot be seen as a threat to internal security in themselves.
in writing. − free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and the ability to move within it without having to face internal border controls is one of its most positive outcomes. many people make use of this freedom, and public opinion ranks free movement among the most significant benefits achieved by the union. as far as our economy is concerned, too, free movement is fundamental to the success of the single market. schengen cannot be abolished. it should instead be strengthened through better management of the eu's external borders in order to ensure full and mutual trust between member states. eurosur aims to strengthen the control of the external borders of the schengen area. eurosur shall establish a mechanism for member states' authorities carrying out border surveillance activities to cooperate and share operational information with each other and with the agency in order to reduce the loss of life at sea and the number of illegal migrants entering the eu undetected, as well as to enhance internal security by preventing cross-border crime such as trafficking in human beings and drug smuggling. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, and the ability to move within the european union without having to face internal border controls is one of its most positive outcomes. many people make use of this freedom, and public opinion often refers to free movement as one of the most significant benefits achieved by the union. as far as our economy is concerned, too, free movement is fundamental to the success of the single market. schengen cannot be abolished. it should instead be strengthened through better management of the eu's external borders in order to ensure full and mutual trust between member states. in this connection, i am voting in favour of the commission's proposal for the exchange of information and improved cooperation between the member states and the agencies involved with a view to a better sharing of responsibilities in the management of the eu's external borders. the proposed system is also crucial to help member states comply with international maritime law and save the lives of migrants.
in writing. - i voted against because i believe that, despite the mention of the objective of saving lives at sea as part of the mission of eurosur, this is a system that reinforces fortress europe, and that does not actually want to save lives, but only so that immigrants can arrive alive in the european space and then be returned to the life and misery they want to escape. we cannot accept a european system which confuses the fight against cross-border crime with irregular immigration: migrants and asylum seekers cannot be seen as a threat to internal security in themselves.
in writing. − free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the european union and this capacity is also one of the greatest benefits achieved by the union. the proposal for a european border surveillance system (eurosur) aims to improve the management of the eu's external borders by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between member states. by providing a common technical framework with guidance on cooperation and on-going communication between the various authorities, eurosur also aims to ensure full mutual trust between member states. better sharing of responsibilities in border management between the agencies involved, european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the eu (frontex) and the member states themselves is crucial to ensuring compliance with international maritime law. this proposal for a regulation essentially calls for cooperation. not only between member states, but also between other european agencies and even with third countries, in order to prevent irregular migration, to combat cross-border crime and above all to save the lives of migrants.
in writing. - pressured by the media by the human catastrophe that has been the death of more than 300 migrants on the italian island of lampedusa, trying to reach europe by boat (many thousands have lost their lives on this kind of journey), the majority of the ep has finally accepted what was not initially in the proposal (and which hypocritically claims to be the values that guide its action): the inclusion of respect for fundamental rights and the obligation to save lives at sea as some of the objectives of eurosur. victims of networks that extort money from them and promise to put them in europe - a goal on which they risk everything, including their lives, to try to escape war, persecution, unlawful work, hunger and poverty, simply to seek a better life - immigrants continue to face a fortress europe that labels them criminals and illegals, represses them and creates the conditions for catastrophes like lampedusa to continue to happen. despite the changes, the creation of eurosur is a step backwards in terms of the rights of immigrants, whose personal data will be shared by immigration services in different countries under the supervision of the european commission and frontex.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that although it goes beyond the scope of the commission's proposal, the review of the exemption for cadmium substances provides an opportunity to repeal another exemption which seems to be out of date: the possibility that button cells may still contain mercury. therefore, in order to reduce the environmental impact of the use of mercury in these products and to reduce their contribution to the global mercury problem, and also taking into account economic feasibility, i believe that the placing on the market of button cells containing mercury should be definitively prohibited by 31 december 2016. in summary, i am in favour of extending the exemption for batteries for one more year until 31 december 2016. given the possibility of recycling 100% of batteries, i consider that the risk is lower and controllable. the commission considers that the exemption from the anti-dumping duty imposed by the contested regulation is not in line with the requirements of the basic regulation and that the exemption from the anti-dumping duty imposed by the basic regulation is not in line with the requirements of the basic regulation. at the same time, the protection of the environment and human health would be ensured, and at the same time additional time would be needed for technological development, sharing of best practices, learning and innovation in this field.
in writing. - cadmium is highly toxic and harmful to health, and therefore poses a danger if contained in portable batteries or accumulators. it should then be banned from such objects as soon as possible.
in writing. the report by mr panayotov is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2006/66/ec on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators as regards the placing on the market of portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium for use in cordless power tools. this proposal aims to amend the directive by limiting the exemption for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for cordless power tools until 31 december 2015. considering that the total market share of nimh batteries in the eu cordless power tool market is relatively low compared to nicd and li-ion batteries, which are mainly used in the nordic countries, and considering the harmful effects of cadmium on the environment, i agree with this limitation. however, i accept that an extension of the exemption for another year would allow for a reasonable compromise, protecting the interests of both consumers and businesses while ensuring the protection of the environment and human health. this additional time is sufficient for technological development, sharing of best practices, learning and innovation in this field.
in writing. − directive 2006/66/ec prohibits the placing on the market of portable batteries or accumulators, including those incorporated into appliances, with a cadmium content exceeding 0.002% by weight, providing for the exception for alarm and emergency systems, medical equipment and cordless power tools. this directive provides for the european commission to review the exemption for cordless tools and proposes a limited exemption until 31 december 2015, taking into account the effects of cadmium on the environment and health. a text negotiated with the council and the commission was adopted giving the exemption for cordless tools another year to allow the recycling industry and consumers along the chain to make the necessary adjustments to alternative technologies. the commission has also provided information on the number of active substances in the product concerned, the number of active substances in the product concerned and the number of active substances in the product concerned. emergency alarm systems, including emergency lighting and medical equipment are also exempted from the application of that directive. these are changes which we consider reasonable and acceptable.
in writing. − directive 2006/66/ec of the european parliament and of the council prohibits the placing on the market of portable batteries or accumulators, including those incorporated into appliances, with a cadmium content exceeding 0,002% by weight. however, an exemption is provided for alarm and emergency systems, including emergency lighting, medical equipment and wireless power tools, authorised until 31 december 2015. there are, however, still some constraints to this being possible. therefore, an extension of the exemption for another year would allow for a reasonable compromise, protecting the interests of both consumers and companies in the value chain. at the same time, the protection of the environment and human health would be ensured, and at the same time additional time would be needed for technological development, sharing of best practices, learning and innovation in this field. the commission notes that the exemption for nicd batteries is not limited to the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − pursuant to article 4 of directive 2006/66/ec, the commission is to review the exemption for cordless power tools. the current proposal aims to amend the directive by limiting the exemption for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators for cordless power tools until 31 december 2015. in view of the effects of cadmium on the environment, the commission's proposal is welcomed. the deadline was set by the commission following an impact assessment which combined the socioeconomic and environmental dimensions of the removal of nicd batteries from cordless power tools by comparing the environmental impact of the removal of cadmium over time. the european parliament suggests extending the exemption for nicd batteries for another year, until 31 december 2016, thus ensuring additional time to allow all economic operators along the value chain to adapt the relevant alternative technologies in all regions of the eu in a uniform manner and in line with the natural business cycle of cordless power tools. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − cadmium is a heavy metal that produces toxic effects when it accumulates in the environment and in the body, even in small amounts, as it remains for an indefinite period and can cause irreversible damage. it is a metal that is available in various forms and substances, including batteries for cordless power tools. when used for this purpose, cadmium can be 100% recycled, substantially reducing the risks to the environment and human health. the commission notes that the exemption for nickel-cadmium batteries is not limited to the period from 1 january 2015 to 31 december 2016. at the same time, this additional time will promote technological development, sharing of best practices and innovation in this area.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. i therefore call on the us government to put an end to the use of draconian precautionary measures which prevent the lawyers representing the guantanamo bay prisoners from disclosing information concerning any details of their secret detention in europe. i also encourage the us government to complete its plan to close guantanamo bay as soon as possible. at the same time, i urge eu member states to step up their efforts to resettle non-european prisoners who have been released from guantanamo and who cannot be repatriated to their home countries because of threats of death, torture or cruel and inhuman treatment.
in writing. - i strongly condemn the climate of impunity for cia programmes which continues to allow human rights violations. i welcome the principles embodied in this resolution in which the european parliament calls for an investigation into the involvement of member states in the cia programme. call for strengthening the european parliament's right of inquiry to investigate violations of fundamental rights in the eu i stress the importance of democratic control through internal, executive and independent judicial and parliamentary oversight.
in writing. the european union must ensure that its territory is not used for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, and must request all information from the united states necessary for the conduct of fact-finding procedures and hold the perpetrators of these crimes accountable. but in doing so, it must not forget that it is its greatest ally and that its army, intelligence and security services have rendered invaluable services to the cause of freedom, democracy and peace in europe. so while it is true that the fight against terrorism and crime cannot justify everything, it is equally true that the assumption of responsibility and the commitment of human and material resources in defence of our way of life has been very uneven. the european union and its member states must abandon the notion that soft power is enough for them and take their share in an effort which must be shared. perhaps this will help us to understand better the natural demands of fundamental rights.
in writing. − respect for fundamental rights and human dignity, particularly as regards prisoners and detainees, is an essential component of the basic values of the construction and progress of the european union and cannot be dissociated from a serious and effective strategy for the success of counter-terrorism policies. the member states and the european institutions must be consistent and incisive in this line of principles and values, which is not to be confused with suspicion and denunciation of allegations of the cia's transporting and illegally detaining prisoners in european countries.
in writing. - this resolution once again denounces what we have been denouncing for a long time: that the cia and/or other us services were directly responsible for the abduction, removal, kidnapping and illegal detention of citizens - which they euphemistically called extraordinary rendition - as well as for the transfer of citizens to third countries, using secret detention centres in various eu member states, for interrogation and torture, in brutal violation of international law and human rights. this resolution sheds some light on some of the developments in this shameful process: first came the news and with it the suspicions, always denied, then followed the evidence, and with it the blockades and the political and legal maneuvers, which persist, to prevent the full ascertainment of the truth and of responsibility. step by step, the intricate web of complicity has been demonstrated, involving several member states with the us intelligence services, nato, the eu and other complicit countries. however, the support for terrorist groups in syria, including those with links to al-qaeda, also demystify the real meaning of the hypocritical fight against terrorism in which this process has been carried out.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the former soviet union. a year ago parliament demanded an explanation of the programmes which violate international law, but so far the only answer we have received has been silence. in the name of dignity, justice, human rights and against abuse, we vote in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think it would be more appropriate to discuss the fight against terrorism, which unfortunately continues to take lives all over the world. let us stop discussing the accessory and go to the essential, which is the elimination of all forms of terrorism, which kills innocent people all over the world.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the former soviet union. a year ago parliament demanded an explanation of the programmes which violate international law, but so far the only answer we have received has been silence. in the name of dignity, justice, human rights and against abuse, we vote in favour.
in writing. − given that the european parliament has already made its recommendations in its resolution of 11 september 2012 on allegations of the transport and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia: follow-up to the report of the ep's tdip committee, i abstained from voting on this document as there are no proven facts that would justify the adoption of a new resolution.
in writing. - this resolution once again denounces what we have long said: that the cia and/or other us services were directly responsible for the abduction, removal, kidnapping and illegal detention of citizens - euphemistically called extraordinary rendition - as well as for the transfer of citizens to third countries, using secret detention centres in various eu member states, for interrogation and torture, in brutal violation of international law and human rights. this resolution has the merit of showing the developments that have been made in this shameful process of so-called cia flights: first came the news and with it the suspicions, always denied, then followed the evidence, and with it the blockades and the political and legal maneuvers, which persist, to prevent the truth and accountability from being established. step by step, the intricacies of the complicity of a network that has involved (and is still involving?) several member states with the us secret services, nato, the eu and other complicit countries are being demonstrated. however, the support for terrorist groups in syria, including those with links to al-qaeda, also demystify the real meaning of the hypocritical fight against terrorism.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution, expressing my support for the commission's recommendations to streamline the use of existing instruments and channels (such as the automatic use of the europol channel and the creation of integrated national single points of contact) and to improve training and awareness-raising on the exchange of information across borders. i am, however, disappointed that the commission has not presented a more ambitious and forward-looking vision, as called for in the stockholm programme and the internal security strategy, which could be a starting point for a political debate on how to model and optimise police data sharing in the eu while ensuring a high level of data and privacy protection. furthermore, i strongly encourage the commission to present this vision by establishing an appropriate framework for the exchange of police information in the eu based on principles such as necessity, quality, proportionality, efficiency and accountability and including an appropriate assessment of the principle of availability and the concept of cross-checking of information.
in writing. − a high level of security in the eu and the schengen area can only be ensured if there is coherent, effective and concerted european action in the fight against crime and criminal networks. the exchange of information between member states for the purposes of criminal investigation, prevention and detection of crime and ensuring public order and security forms the basis for police cooperation in the eu, which is of particular importance in an area without internal border controls. the existing legislation and agreements have been complemented by eu systems and instruments such as sis ii or the europol information system. the commission's communication confirms what we have been advocating for a long time: the current range of tools is sufficient and no new law enforcement databases or new eu-level information exchange tools will be needed at this stage. it is necessary to improve the application of existing instruments and streamline the communication channels used, as in the case of the prüm decision, which should have been transposed by august 2011, but several member states have not yet exchanged data under this decision due to lack of human and financial resources.
in writing. − the opening of borders, the transnational nature of criminal and terrorist organisations, the manifest inadequacy of national responses to this problem and the urgent need to speed up the exchange of information at european level alone recommend further enhanced cooperation. member states must increasingly act together in combating all forms of crime, strengthen their individual resources and put them to the service of the security of citizens in the most effective way. it is therefore necessary to assess the state of this cooperation and to promote its closer and improved implementation, in the conviction that, while we are naturally always one step behind in relation to crime, the states and their security services must redouble their efforts to combat it.
in writing. − indeed, crossborder crime is increasing globally and potentially more acute in the european union, not only because of the elimination of internal borders which facilitates mobility, but also because of the increasing capacity of criminal networks to operate internationally and in several countries, with concerted and simultaneous intervention by multiple partners and in different areas. it is therefore imperative to ensure more effective cross-border mechanisms for the exchange of information and better coordination of operational activities, which allow for an increase in the efficiency of crime prevention and response capacity. it is also important to ensure respect for privacy and data protection, as well as the principles of proportionality, transparency and accountability in the access to and use of available resources and data. the training of european police should also be improved as a factor contributing to strengthening mutual trust between the different police forces and, at the same time, to improving the exchange of information and cross-border cooperation.
in writing. - the report finds that crossborder crime is increasing in the eu. in doing so, it ignores or omits the many decisions which are at the root of this phenomenon, such as the free movement of capital, the deregulation of the financial sector, the deepening of the single market, and others. in doing so, it maintains intact the macroeconomic orientations that are at the root of the increase in organised crime and proposes the automation of information exchange processes, including cross-border access to national databases, using existing channels such as europol. we are in full support of the fight against crossborder organised crime, but we believe that if we do not use the above-mentioned macroeconomic instruments, this fight will be totally ineffective, apart from the fact that we are automatically allowing organisations without any democratic control, such as europol, to have access to national databases which may contain sensitive information, which is clearly dangerous for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. − the internal security strategy calls for the development of a more effective global model for information exchange. the exchange of information on criminal activities across borders forms the basis for police cooperation in the european union and is particularly important in an area without internal border controls. in the face of the increase in cross-border crime in the eu, an efficient and secure exchange of police information that respects data protection and fundamental rights is becoming increasingly important. the wide range of means of collecting, processing and sharing information among eu police authorities thus needs to be further coherent and consolidated in order to increase the security of eu citizens. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the assessment of the different instruments, channels and means available in the eu for the crossborder exchange of police information finds that the current range of different instruments, channels and means is complex and dispersed, leading to ineffective use of the instruments and inadequate democratic oversight at eu level, as well as in some cases to misuse of the function and access. this resolution calls on the commission to review community and national legislation, including international (bilateral) agreements, governing the cross-border exchange of police information and to carry out an independent external evaluation of existing instruments for the exchange of police information in the european union in order to assess their measurable impact.
in writing. − the stockholm programme takes on board the need for greater coherence and consolidation of the means of collecting, processing and sharing information between police authorities in the european union. at a time when crossborder crime is on the rise in the eu, it is extremely important that there is this police cooperation with the exchange of information on criminal activities, always respecting data protection and the fundamental rights of citizens. it is also recommended that existing tools and channels for this purpose be streamlined, such as the automatic use of the europol channel, which will allow for better information exchange. i believe that crossborder cooperation and the improvement of the exchange of information will strengthen mutual trust between police forces, and i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the report begins by noting what is already clear: crossborder crime is on the rise in the eu. this reference comes almost as a surprise and at the same time as an omen; as if the majority of the ep had nothing to do with the decisions (which it itself took) that are at the origin of these phenomena, namely the free movement of capital and goods with the abolition of national legislation to deepen the eu internal market, with the consequent concentration of capital. the majority of meps not only leave intact the macroeconomic policies that are at the root of the increase in organised crime, but also propose to automate the exchange of information, including cross-border access to national databases, using existing channels such as europol. we are fully in favour of fighting organised crime across borders. we believe, however, that if we do not use the above-mentioned macroeconomic instruments, this fight will be totally ineffective, and we will be automatically allowing organisations without any democratic control, such as europol, to have access to national databases which may contain sensitive information.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution by condemning the persistent human rights violations against people who are victims of caste hierarchies and caste-based discrimination, including the denial of equality and access to justice and employment, the continued segregation and caste-related obstacles to the attainment of fundamental human rights and development. i also believe that identity cards should avoid references to castes, as this is contrary to the principles of equality and social mobility. however, i welcome the report by githu muigai, the un special rapporteur on racism, which stresses that all victims of caste discrimination worldwide should be given equal attention and protection. i would like to end by emphasizing more broadly that all forms of racism and discrimination must be tackled with the same emphasis and determination, particularly in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for condemning the persistent violations of human rights committed against people who are victims of caste hierarchies and caste discrimination.
in writing. − all forms of discrimination are reprehensible and must be eliminated in a society which respects the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens. however, numerous forms of discrimination still exist, in particular that based on caste, which is particularly felt in asian countries. this discrimination not only condemns the untouchable castes to poverty and social exclusion, it makes them more vulnerable to all kinds of crimes. the eu should use all means at its disposal to promote equal rights and non-discrimination on the basis of caste, paying particular attention to this in its development support programmes and trade agreements.
in writing. - it is of the utmost importance that the european union clearly combat and promote the fight against all forms of human and social discrimination. discrimination on the basis of caste exists in several countries around the world, with a particular focus on south asia, in addition to africa and the middle east. in addition to serious violations of human rights, this type of discrimination aggravates poverty and further hinders the process of socioeconomic development of the communities and countries affected. the persistent human rights violations against people who are victims of caste hierarchies, including the denial of equality and access to justice and employment, continued segregation and the obstacles created by the irregular functioning of public institutions, judicial systems and the police, are absolutely reprehensible.
in writing. − the caste system is characterised by social segregation, determining the function of people within society. this system essentially excludes the so-called dalit or untouchables who are socially, laborally and economically marginalized. although in many regions where the caste system exists, it has already been abolished from their constitutions, the system is so old and traditional that the strength of the practice adopted over centuries allows this culture to remain alive, although today it is more prevalent in rural areas. we support the resolution condemning the human rights violations against people who are victims of caste discrimination. we are against any form of human rights violation and believe that victims should be protected and supported. it is important to point out that the caste system, more than its religious basis, is based on the exploitation of man by man, and only the class struggle in those countries can put an end to it.
in writing. - any kind of discrimination is to be condemned at all levels. so caste discrimination, which is found all over the world, but most prevalent in asia, must be eradicated, and that can only be done through education. we must include caste discrimination as a human rights issue in future eu policies and strategies in this area as well as in its future action plans. in future we must increase support for development projects to combat caste discrimination, as a serious violation of human rights which further aggravates poverty, and take this form of discrimination into account in all projects concerning education, women, access to justice, political participation and employment in the countries concerned. only then can we succeed in the fight against caste discrimination.
in writing. − the term caste refers to a rigid system of social stratification, in which groups are discriminated against on the basis of their work and family origin, and are considered impure and untouchable by nature. it is a serious form of discrimination which violates international human rights law as enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights, the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination, the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and the convention on the rights of the child and the international labour organisation convention no 111. it is urgent to condemn this discrimination and segregation, with special attention to the dalits and other affected communities, whose social exclusion generates high levels of poverty, violence and abuse against women. it also prevents identity cards from containing references to castes, thus promoting equal treatment. i am in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that it is urgent to eliminate this kind of discrimination in order to protect the human rights of the communities affected.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the right to petition the european parliament by citizens and residents of the european union, individually or on behalf of associations, is an ancient right, conferred by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 227) and by the charter of fundamental rights of the eu (article 44). the right to petition is an essential democratic instrument, as it provides members of the european parliament with a realistic assessment of issues of concern to citizens and demonstrates that the european parliament is prepared to intervene directly to promote and protect citizens' rights.
in writing. - the often proclaimed aim of bringing elected representatives at european level closer to the electorate is given a privileged instrument in the petitions submitted to the european parliament. i would therefore like to see it more widely disseminated and more frequently used by citizens. if the importance and irreplaceable nature of representative democracy in our political system is clear, so too is the need to respect the concerns and initiatives directly promoted by groups of citizens. the fact that the european union has dedicated this year to its citizens shows how far citizenship issues cannot be confined to electoral and trade union participation. there is a wide range of issues and causes today that mobilise people and to which policy-makers cannot, or at least should not, be indifferent.
in writing. − fundamental rights of citizens, environmental protection and barriers to the internal market were the main topics of the 1,986 petitions submitted by european citizens in 2012. if, on the one hand, this shows the growing sensitivity of citizens to the use of this instrument, which allows them to question the european institutions and the functioning of the european union, on the other hand, it shows the existence of some problems that need to be solved urgently in this eu that is wanted from the citizens. it should also be noted that there are petitions indicating the persistence of discrimination against citizens on the basis of disability, membership of a particular minority or ethnic group, age or sexual orientation. petitions are indeed a powerful instrument for promoting european citizenship, and it is therefore important to ensure that there are effective mechanisms to encourage their use and reduce red tape, while ensuring that the expectations and requirements of petitioners are fully met.
in writing. − in 2012, the committee on petitions registered 1,986 petitions, most of them concerning fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and the economic and social crisis, figures which are not at all unconnected with the difficulties faced by the people in each member state in the context of the structural crisis of capitalism and the so-called austerity policies in the eu. the commission has decided to accept 1 406 petitions, of which 853 were sent to the commission for further examination and 580 were declared inadmissible. as regards the statistical analysis presented in this report, the majority of petitions concern the eu as a whole (27.3%), followed by spanish (15.0%), german (12.5%) and italian (8.6%) cases. the report includes a recital stating that thanks to the work of this committee, water has been declared a public good by the european parliament. however, the paragraph in the article that operationalizes the recommendation to the european commission merely states that water is a common good. this inconsistency, which is obviously clever, is intended to remove the public character of services, distorting the firm fight of the populations against the privatization of this resource. it is in line with other positions adopted by the european parliament in this respect, which thus shows that it takes account of the genuine aspirations and concerns of the citizens.
in writing. − in 2012, petitions by citizens and residents of the european union mainly focused on alleged gaps in eu law in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights. it considers that the petitions bear witness to the fact that there are still frequent and widespread cases of incomplete transposition or misapplication of eu law. fundamental rights remain a central theme of the petitions submitted, raising issues relating, inter alia, to the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of children, property rights, the right to free movement, including the portability of social security rights, without any form of discrimination on any grounds, the protection of freedom of expression and privacy and the right of access to documents and information. it is to be hoped that in the near future the member states will be able to transpose into their legislation all the rules and directives adopted in the eu to deal with the fundamental rights problems which continue to concern european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the considerations made, in particular that the committee on petitions would perform its role and tasks better and that its accountability, visibility and transparency would be better ensured if the means for it to raise issues of importance to eu citizens in plenary were strengthened and if the possibility of calling witnesses, conducting inquiries and organising hearings were improved.
in writing. - the right to petition the european parliament is an ancient right conferred by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (article 227) and the charter of fundamental rights of the eu (article 44). it is an essential instrument for democracy, as it makes members aware of the issues that concern citizens, showing that the ep is prepared to act in defence of their rights. the committee on petitions received a total of 1986 petitions in 2012, an increase compared to 2011, but which shows a recognition of the importance given to this democratic act. the members of the committee on petitions are responsible for accepting, examining and acting on all petitions submitted, giving petitioners answers containing conclusions, recommendations or even referrals to other institutions or bodies. this is a way for members to become aware of the issues that concern their constituency directly, thereby addressing their concerns, doubts and even suggestions. for the reasons set out above and in view of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012, i am in favour of the adoption of this report.
the european union has its own responsibilities in the impasses and blockages in international negotiations. it claims leadership in efforts to combat climate change but persists in its own emissions reduction targets below those recommended by the ipcc. but more than setting goals, a realistic definition of the means to achieve them is needed. ironically and sadly, it is the deep economic crisis that we are in that is the one that is doing the most to curb greenhouse gas emissions. focusing on market instruments which have already shown their failure, their ineffectiveness and their perversity, the european union insists on refusing to face the need to diversify the instruments used to achieve reduction targets. for many, the climate is still more a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than a reason for serious and genuine concern about the future of the planet we inhabit. it is important to point out here the inconsistency of policies, for example, of liberalization and deregulation of international trade, which significantly increase the greenhouse gas emissions inherent in meeting human needs. and by the way, it's also important to remember the millions who, since 2009, have announced themselves to mitigate and adapt to climate change with great media hype. what do you do with this money? what about the so-called fast-track financing and what should follow it?
climate change is a global challenge, the effects of which can be minimized, mitigated, but it is inevitable and will bring demographic changes, new diseases, problems for farmers, serious difficulties for civil protection agencies. this means that all states, and on a global scale, all levels of government and every citizen, are called upon to fight this battle. i expect broad commitments, shared and coordinated action and binding targets at global level accompanied by a sanctioning regime. i hope that the warsaw conference will not be a conference anymore but rather a key moment for a global agreement. the european union must set an example and continue to play a relevant, ambitious, credible and leading role. to this end, the european union must also take up its commitments already adopted and, in resolutions, also take up the objectives in this area, in particular the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, the current crisis cannot be an excuse for forgetting, for lessening environmental concerns, quite the contrary, it is an environmental policy like the one the european union has been advocating, which stimulates innovation and investment in environmental goods and services, which can generate jobs and also export opportunities.
climate change is a real threat to people and the planet. the next conference is therefore crucial to reach a binding global agreement in 2015. there can be no more delays. it's our survival at stake. i was at cop 11 in 2005, in montreal, canada. we are already at cop 19 and since then, progress has been very limited. this year it is up to a member state, poland, to host and chair the proceedings, and it is important that, also symbolically, the eu maintains its ambition and leadership and reaffirms the need for an international agreement. i would like to remind you that women and children are more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, such as water and food shortages and natural disasters. combating climate change is also a human rights issue.
the european union should prepare its position on the global agreement. i would like to mention a few principles which i consider to be fundamental to the new international agreement. firstly, the agreement must not divide the world into two groups of countries, as the kyoto protocol does, the industrialized countries and the developing countries. a system is needed where each country contributes to the common effort according to its responsibilities and capabilities. secondly, we must combine the targets assigned to the economies of the different countries with common and global objectives to be adopted by specific industrial sectors, which are subject to carbon leakage. thirdly, the framework should be more flexible and accommodate a wider range of initiatives, in particular bottom-up initiatives, for example, relating to cities and energy efficiency. fourthly, market mechanisms must remain at the heart of the global agreement and fifthly, cooperation in scientific research and technological development must be a crucial objective in the next agreement.
i welcome this important initiative by the commission, which is only too late. three years after the treaty of lisbon, the european union still lacks a horizontal legislative framework on taking measures against third countries to enforce their rights under bilateral and multilateral international trade agreements. in the face of the growing number of commercial disputes and other situations calling for action by the union, it is crucial that we can respond quickly and that we have an effective and credible instrument to safeguard the economic interests of the union. until now, this could only be done by ad hoc legislative measures, on a case-by-case basis, which before the lisbon treaty was done by the council on a proposal from the commission. after the treaty of lisbon, this is no longer possible, given the delay in the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission's proposal to create a general legislative framework which would then enable the commission to take action where necessary by means of implementing acts is therefore welcome. the mere existence of this regulation is in itself a deterrent and therefore fills a serious gap in the union's legal order. in conclusion, parliament should adopt a clear and predictable common framework so that the union can deal in a timely manner with any illegal commercial actions and strengthen the union's capacity.
the negative effects of liberalization and deregulation of international trade are so evident that even the pioneers of free trade have come to recognize, at least formally, the need for some level of regulation, however minimal. or, to use her familiar warmongering rhetoric, herself elucidative as to the purposes she serves, the need for so-called defensive retaliatory measures. experience shows that in the context of liberalization we do not have enough instruments, which, when they are used, if they are ever used, have already done a lot of damage. we need a regulated international trade, oriented towards complementarity and not towards competition between products, producers and countries. a competition in which everyone loses: workers, populations and the environment. the european union's exclusive competence in the field of trade policy has served, and serves only, as experience shows us, to defend the so-called offensive and defensive interests of the great european powers, interests which are often different from, or even antagonistic to, those of other countries, in particular the member states with weaker economies.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for opinions and some non-governmental organisations for their support for this report. this is an important issue for women, for young people, for families, for european citizens and for citizens of developing countries. it is an important issue to ensure equal access to sexual and reproductive health for all people without exception. the campaign being waged against the contents of my report is proof of the importance of what is at stake. the current context has been exploited by the most conservative forces to pressure their respective governments to change the most progressive laws. this is also why it is crucial that the european parliament upholds its founding values and considers sexual and reproductive rights as human rights. in the name of human rights, ivf must be legal and safe. in countries where abortion is criminalized, many women risk their lives by resorting to clandestine abortion, especially women with less economic resources, because the others, the more affluent, move to countries where abortion is legal, that is, the ban on ivf mainly affects the most disadvantaged women, which contributes to increasing social inequalities. those who have an economic view of life should know that the cost of carrying out a safe abortion is one tenth the cost of treating the consequences of an unsafe abortion. the practice of conscientious objection has denied many women the possibility of accessing reproductive health services. there are reports from slovakia, hungary, romania, poland, italy and ireland that 70% of gynaecologists and 40% of anaesthetists are conscientious objectors. this kind of difficulty does not meet international medical standards and is a human rights issue. sex education is compulsory in some member states, although not always of high quality. the best practices come from the benelux countries, the nordic countries, france and germany. sex education has been shown to reduce teenage pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and abortion. the high rate of teenage pregnancy in some member states is worrying and shows that a large proportion of young people lack the knowledge to make responsible sexual choices. this report also deals with the prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and presents a set of measures that can contribute to reducing this scourge, including in developing countries. in summary, women, couples, families should be free to decide whether, when and how many children they want to have. women have the right to a safe pregnancy and childbirth, but if they decide to terminate the pregnancy, the abortion must also be carried out in safe conditions. for those who think that these proposals will further reduce the birth rate in an ageing europe, i would remind them that in the countries with more progressive legislation, the birth rate has been increasing. what is needed is to close the gender pay gap and to allow reconciliation between family and professional life.
mr president, this report reflects once again the contradictions of the european union in its concern over the jihadist terrorists in mali, while at the same time supporting the same groups in a more or less veiled way in syria. it reflects the contradictions of two measures for two similar situations, it reflects the contradictions when it is concerned today with the destabilisation of libya, with the arms coming from libya, when it was the european union itself that threw the bombs on the libyan people and destroyed their country. finally, it is clear that the subject of western sahara is important. the dramatic situation in western sahara has been going on for decades and must be resolved, and today the european union must take a firm stand on its relations with morocco and on its position on western sahara.
mr president, development cooperation policy must identify in the local authorities and in the various social organizations in the developing countries structures to be supported and strengthened. trade unions, organizations active in the fields of health, education, public services in general, development organizations, and others, can and should be supported, strengthening ties of cooperation and friendship between peoples, countries and continents. but any attempts to interfere in the setting of priorities for developing countries must be avoided. the sovereignty of developing countries, their political and economic choices and options must be fully respected, taking into account their specific situation and conditions. it is unacceptable that under the guise of support for civil society, interference is promoted and encouraged in choices which only the people of these countries can make.
mr president, rethinking education must be seen as a fundamental step towards educating young people, linking them to the world of work and employment policies, investing in skills as a key way to achieve better economic and social outcomes. the present demands that we look at education from a different angle and take up its decisive role in building a developed, just and competitive society as we aspire to. to do that, we need to put it at the top of the agenda, to give it a more holistic, more ambitious and more assertive vision, one that definitively overcomes the torrent of educational reforms that have been made with little meaningful gain. it is essential that we draw up a pact on education, develop in-depth educational initiatives which, beyond budgetary pressures, tackle the underlying problems that are mortgaging the future of our societies.
in writing. rethinking education, yes, but not in this way, in order to legitimize the decrease in public investment in this sector, imposing online and similar methods as the norm and solution, and thus decreasing the quality of education. not rethinking education to suggest student debt to charge for school debt. not to rethink education to make it subject to the interests of the market, so that private interests determine the curricula and the content of school. never rethink education to put it at the service of big business. rethink education, to guarantee the right to the integral formation of the individual, the right to public education, free and of quality, with a public and collective investment of all and for all.
on behalf of the committee on fisheries. other mr president, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, i would recommend that parliament reject the request for urgency submitted by the council in this matter. the deadline set by the council does not allow our committee to give this proposal due consideration. however, i would like to say that we take note of the concerns raised by the council and would like to stress that the committee on fisheries aims to finalise its position as soon as possible, in order to allow a decision by parliament as soon as possible, given that the change in the status of mayotte will take effect from 1 january 2014. that said, i must also make it clear that we do not support the council's proposal as regards the legal basis of this proposal. the committee on fisheries will also decide on the most appropriate legal basis and this decision will be forwarded to the council in due course. but, while the outermost regions article of the treaty cannot be dismissed out of hand, in view of the proposals under consideration, which cover central aspects of eu fisheries legislation, it seems to us that co-decision is the most appropriate basis and that the possibility of a dual legal basis can nevertheless be considered. we therefore recommend that this council request be rejected as well.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. - mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment, i would like to congratulate mr dagmar roth-behrendt and mr peter liese on the good work they have done and to thank them for their cooperation. the employment committee has dealt with this matter from a worker and user safety perspective. it's not just nurses and doctors who are at risk. these are all those who handle medical devices, such as outpatient and alternative care facility carers, laboratory technicians, and auxiliary workers, such as cleaners, laundry workers, prison officers, etc. health institutions must ensure that their staff are adequately trained in the correct use of medical devices, in order to avoid needle injury and the transmission of associated infections, in order to ensure the safe use of new medical technologies and surgical techniques.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter. it is not a technical dossier, although there are some technical aspects. these are dossiers which put the security of european citizens first and foremost. i also believe that we are not talking about consumers, we are talking about the right of citizens to information and to safety, to the greatest possible safety, both in relation to diagnostics and in relation to medical devices. and from that point of view i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work that has been done together. i believe that the question of any mismatch with clinical practice can and should be resolved now following the negotiations and discussion, which also starts here, but i think it is extremely important that there is a guarantee in the proposal that, in relation to high-risk devices, there is no difference in the approval system between a citizen living in lithuania and a citizen living in portugal, because everyone deserves the same level of safety.
mr president, more austerity and a social darwinism which is more than anachronistic seems to be the view the council and the commission have on the direction of european union. the multiannual financial framework has not yet been approved by parliament, despite the enthusiasm and agreement of the three largest groups, and we already have a budget for 2014 that enshrines austerity. there are reductions in payments in the areas which are said to be priorities: growth, employment, scientific research and aid to the most deprived. there is also an unexplained reservation that is pending with regard to aid to the middle east peace process and aid to the palestinian refugees. my group has tabled over 300 amendments in the committee on budgets because these things needed to be corrected, but my question in relation to this under-budgeting is this: how many amending budgets will we have in 2014 when a budget of this kind is approved for next year?
the rapporteur. - madam president, i was hoping that the speech we have just heard, which is so inspiring, so intelligent, so sensitive, might serve as an example to some colleagues who are so intolerant of the opinions of others. i regret the decision this parliament has just taken. this is a matter which has been discussed in this term and has been approved several times by this parliament. at the femm committee there was ... intolerance is on display, but shouting louder doesn't make them right. our guest didn't have to shout to be heard, she spoke softly, she was heard, she was applauded, you speak too loudly but you are not right. we in the femm committee will, in accordance with the decision that has been taken, look into the matter, but i recall that it was adopted by 17 votes in favour, 7 against and 7 abstentions. the votes in the parliamentary specialised committees must be respected. and it's not by disrespecting the mandate we have that we are respected by our citizens. madam president, this parliament has shown today that we often do not deserve the trust of our electors.
in writing. - i approve this report. at this stage i consider that the proposed regulation is based on a reasonable approach. we need to monitor the implementation of this specific tariff quota which does not imply a general increase in the overall tariff quota for wine authorized for importation into the western balkans, but only changes its distribution, correcting the alleged unfavourable position of kosovar wine exporters. furthermore, it appears that the level of the wine quota allocated to kosovo is based on previous trade in that product and, as this is the method normally used to determine the levels of the quotas, there does not appear to be any disproportionate allocation of wine to kosovo compared to the individual tariff quotas allocated to the rest of the western balkan region.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today because it seeks to introduce a mechanism which will avoid legal uncertainty as regards the tariff quotas available on the day of entry into force of this regulation and prevent the total volume of concessions from exceeding 50 000 hectolitres.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the wine tariff quota, as it will ensure a level playing field for wine imports into the eu from the entire western balkans region.
in writing. − the regulation aims to create a level playing field for wine imports into the eu from the entire western balkan region, including kosovo. it should be noted that the specific tariff quota for wine originating in kosovo does not imply a general increase of the overall tariff quota for wine imported from the balkans.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 establishes a system of exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process. in practice, it grants an exceptional and unlimited exemption from customs duties on the eu market to almost all products originating in albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. this asymmetric liberalisation would, under normal circumstances, violate the wto rules on non-discrimination. however, these trade preferences with respect to the western balkans are explicitly authorised by a wto derogation until 31 december 2015. these are therefore measures taken within the wto framework which are consistent with its logic. all western balkan countries benefit from preferential trade arrangements, including individual tariff quotas, under stabilisation and association agreements or interim agreements on trade. a specific tariff quota for wine of 20 000 hl is now allocated to kosovo and the overall annual tariff quota for wine from all these countries is reduced proportionately from 50 000 hl to 30 000 hl. the total volume of concessions is thus not changed. we have not, however, voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union grants unlimited exceptional duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process, through council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009, with the exception of wine and baby beef, which remain subject to tariff quotas. the aim of these measures is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. the resulting economic development will promote political stability throughout the region. kosovo has demonstrated its potential to export wine to the union and exporters need a stable and reliable framework. this proposal approves a tariff quota of 20,000 hl of wine for kosovo, to be deducted from the 50,000 hl provided for in regulation (ec) no 1215/2009.
in writing. − the proposed regulation is based on a reasonable approach which aims to create a level playing field for wine imports into the eu from the entire western balkans region. the report stresses that the allocation of a specific tariff quota for wine originating in kosovo does not imply an overall increase in the overall tariff quota for wine authorised for import to the western balkans, but only changes its distribution, correcting the alleged unfavourable position of kosovo wine exporters. furthermore, the level of the wine quota allocated to kosovo is based on previous trade in that product and, as this is the usual method for determining the levels of the quotas, there does not appear to be any disproportionate allocation of wine to kosovo compared to the individual tariff quotas allocated to the rest of the western balkans region under the stabilisation and association agreements or the interim agreements. for these reasons, and in view of the urgency of this legislative procedure in order not to disrupt trade after 31 december 2013, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the union has an exceptional tariff framework for almost all products from bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, albania, croatia, macedonia, montenegro and kosovo, agreed by the world trade organisation until 31 december 2015. this preferential treatment of access to the union market does not apply to wines, as an import quota has been imposed. however, the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements provide for specific quotas for the wine products of the respective country. however, kosovo is completely excluded, benefiting only from the overall import quota. i am voting in favour of this report because i think it is important to correct this asymmetry which is damaging the kosovo wine market compared to its peers.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 establishes a system of exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process. in practice, it grants exceptional and unlimited relief from customs duties on the eu market to almost all products originating in albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. these measures are therefore taken within the framework of the wto and in accordance with its logic. all western balkan countries benefit from preferential trade arrangements, including individual tariff quotas, under stabilisation and association agreements or interim agreements on trade. a specific tariff quota for wine of 20 000 hl is now allocated to kosovo and the overall annual tariff quota for wine from all these countries is reduced proportionately from 50 000 hl to 30 000 hl. the total volume of concessions is thus not changed.
in writing. − i welcome this report, given that before the dramatic events of 2010, economic growth was expected to recover. however, the popular uprising of april 2010 and, more importantly, the escalation of ethnic conflict in june led to a serious deterioration of the economic outlook. furthermore, whereas in 2010 kyrgyzstan formally requested eu macro-financial assistance (mfa) to complement imf support and the commission assessed the macroeconomic situation and financing needs of the kyrgyz republic, the main conclusions of the assessment being that the tragic political events of the past year and the related social and reconstruction expenditure left significant external and fiscal financing needs for the period 2011-12. although these needs are being partially met by the international community, there are still substantial residual needs. in order to complement the resources made available by the imf, the commission proposes to provide mfa of up to eur 30 million to the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. - i agree that macrofinancial assistance should be given to the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new financial framework for the period 2007-13. we expressed our opposition during the first reading vote. we're holding the same position. the commission proposes to make available a maximum of eur 30 million, half in the form of loans and the other half in the form of grants. this grant from the amf is directly linked to the implementation of structural and macroeconomic reforms in the social security, education and public finance management sectors. the european union's requirements for granting aid are in keeping with the conditionality associated with so-called structural adjustment programmes, such as the one the portuguese people are suffering from. we can't agree. we therefore supported the amendment which proposed rejecting the council's position. unfortunately, she failed.
in writing. − in 2009, the kyrgyz republic was affected by the global crisis. shortly afterwards, its economic problems were aggravated by a popular uprising that in april 2010 deposed the regime of president bakiyev, accused of corruption and lack of democracy. faced with the power vacuum, ethnic conflicts erupted in the south of the country in june 2010, with 470 deaths and about 300 000 displaced. despite these tragic events, the new interim government succeeded in passing democratic reforms thanks to a constitutional referendum held on 27 june 2010. in october 2010, free elections to the parliament took place, allowing the establishment of the region's first parliamentary democracy. a great coalition government emerged from these elections. in view of the stability that has been presented, we have approved this macrofinancial assistance to help kyrgyzstan overcome its problems of slowing gdp growth and increasing the budget deficit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council granting macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. the eu's political and economic support for the nascent parliamentary democracy of the kyrgyz republic will be a strong political signal of the eu's support for democratic reforms in central asia, in line with the eu's policy towards the region as reflected in the central asia strategy 2007-2013 and in the statements of eu leaders.
in writing. − in june 2010, ethnic conflicts broke out in the south of the kyrgyz republic, with 470 deaths and around 300,000 displaced. despite these tragic events, the new interim government succeeded in passing democratic reforms, which were approved in a constitutional referendum held on 27 june 2010. i agree with the report which aims to support the kyrgyz republic in adopting an appropriate framework of macroeconomic and structural reforms and to contribute to maintaining economic and democratic stability in the country during this critical period. i am therefore in favour of the mobilisation of macrofinancial assistance of up to eur 30 million for the kyrgyz republic, half in the form of loans and half in the form of grants, thus complementing the resources made available by the imf.
in writing. - we voted on the second reading of the agreement on the granting of macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to the kyrgyz republic. we expressed our opposition at the first reading and we still do. the commission proposes to make available a maximum of eur 30 million, half in the form of loans and half in the form of grants. this grant from the amf is directly linked to the implementation of structural and macroeconomic reforms in the social security, education and public finance management sectors. the european union is making unacceptable demands and blackmailing itself to grant aid. we can't agree. we therefore supported the amendment which proposed rejecting the council's position.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the commission proposal focuses a great deal on product quality. however, it should be noted that experts and many international organisations such as the council of europe, the oecd and the european society of human genetics have repeatedly stated their position that in many cases the context in which the product is applied is more important than the quality of the product. especially in the case of dna testing it is extremely important to respect the principle of informed consent. this has also been requested on several occasions by the european parliament. i therefore propose amendments on this subject. it is agreed that the european union should not seek to limit access to dna testing for patients, but that appropriate genetic counselling on the consequences should always be provided before the test is carried out. in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, it should be for the member states to regulate the details, and member states should be allowed to go further than required by the regulation.
in writing. − in vitro diagnostic medical devices are products which can circulate freely in the common market. there are no national borders for these products on the european market. that is why the european union has an obligation to ensure the highest possible level of security. without a correct diagnosis, there is no possibility of adequate treatment or prevention of disease. unfortunately, the current directive does not prevent the marketing of low-quality in vitro diagnostic devices. in the past, there have been cases where a low-quality aids test was marketed on the european market with the ce mark. in this respect, important improvements are proposed to address the current shortcomings of the system, namely the strengthening of the system of market surveillance and surveillance; the obligation of unannounced inspections of companies; the strengthening of the supervision of notified bodies by the member states and the creation of a network of european reference laboratories which plays an important role in the control of high-risk medical devices. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today, particularly the result achieved. it aims at improving patient safety. the question of the safety of european citizens will have to come first and be the focus of this report.
in writing. − ivds are medical devices intended for use outside the human body in vitro and cover a wide range of tests, such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv testing and dna testing. it should be recalled that ivds circulate freely within the eu and are already regulated by european legislation. however, it has shown some shortcomings which need to be addressed, and that is the aim of this proposal, which i support. i support this because i consider it essential that the vdi available on the european market meet all the safety and quality requirements without imposing onerous requirements on their manufacturers which would drive some smes away from the market. i find these two concerns in the report, which is very reassuring.
in writing. the report by mr liese deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. in vitro medical devices are medical devices intended for use outside the human body, which can be used in the laboratory or near the patient, such as self-testing for measuring blood sugar, hiv testing and dna testing. considering that without proper diagnosis, proper treatment and prevention of diseases are not possible, in vitro medical devices are of great importance. the current directive does not prevent the marketing of low-quality ivd medical devices and hiv tests that reported no virus when in fact it existed and gave far more false negatives than other available tests have been identified. i therefore support the strengthening of a system of market surveillance and supervision, unannounced inspection visits to companies and the creation of a network of european reference laboratories which plays an important role in the control of high-risk medical devices.
in writing. − in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) are devices intended for use outside the human body (in vitro) that can be used in the laboratory or near the patient, covering a wide range of tests such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv testing and dna testing. without proper diagnosis, there is no possibility of adequate treatment or prevention of disease. the current directive does not prevent the marketing of low quality ivd medical devices, and there are cases where a low quality hiv test (with an abnormally high number of false negatives) has been marketed in the european market. the report aims to ensure greater transparency and control in medical devices, as well as greater protection and information for patients, and to provide a higher level of safety for medical devices on the market. the report proposes a new classification system (taking into account individual and public health risk), the introduction of the concept of informed consent for genetic testing (pre-natal and for diseases manifesting throughout adult life), genetic counselling, protection of minors and persons with disabilities. we voted in favour.
in writing. the report aims to approve new rules on in vitro diagnostic devices used in pregnancy, dna or hiv tests. in vitro diagnostic medical devices cover a wide range of products such as pregnancy tests, hiv screening tests, dna tests, etc. there are thousands of different devices with different risk categories. the rules adopted today are designed to ensure patient safety. new rules on patient consent to the use of a device for genetic testing purposes were introduced and the setting up of an ethics committee was advised. the rules adopted today are designed to ensure patient safety. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − medical ivd devices are, as their name suggests, diagnostic devices that can be handled not only by professionals in a laboratory setting, but also by the average citizen at home. ivds cover a wide range of tests, among which blood sugar tests, hiv tests and genetic tests stand out for their regularity of use or the potential impact of the results they produce. specifically as regards genetic testing, due to the complexity of its full interpretation and understanding, the potentially devastating nature of its not necessarily correct results, the negative impacts on family members who did not seek or want any genetic information, the ease of misuse, it is necessary to establish an appropriate legislative framework that prevents the undesirable consequences of the use of such icds. this is what can most easily be ensured by making prior genetic counselling compulsory. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the member states will have a preponderant role in this area in national legislation, based on that established at european level.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation aims to replace the directive on in vitro diagnostic medical devices, taking account in particular of the inconsistency in the interpretation of the existing rules in the member states, while at the same time protecting public health and safety and removing obstacles to the functioning of the internal market. the aim is to broaden and clarify the scope of the legislation, align the definitions with international practice, establish a medical device coordination group, among other measures, taking into account that in vitro diagnostic medical devices are medical devices intended for use outside the human body and cover a wide range of tests such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv testing and dna testing. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − in vitro diagnostic medical devices (ivds) are devices intended for use outside the human body in vitro, which can be used in the laboratory or near the patient, covering a wide range of tests such as self-testing for blood sugar, hiv testing and dna testing. the current directive does not prevent the marketing of low quality ivd medical devices, and there are cases where a low quality hiv test (with an abnormally high number of false negatives) has been marketed in the european market. the report aims to ensure greater transparency and control in medical devices, as well as greater protection and information for patients, and to provide a higher level of safety for medical devices on the market. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal to review the current regulatory framework for medical devices. the revision was, in my view, particularly necessary, given that this is a framework of 20 years and many improvements have been made to the existing legislation. however, i think that many other amendments should still be made to the text. i think that the commission proposes a text structure which is not entirely satisfactory, because it does not reflect the sequence of activities which need to be carried out before a medical device can be used safely. the second chapter already refers to the making available of devices, their free movement, or even reprocessing, before mentioning the classification of devices or the selection of the approval procedure. the order used also places the emphasis on the placing of devices on the market and their free movement within the eu, leaving considerations such as patient safety and public health (classification, approval procedure and clinical investigations) in the background.
in writing. − this report aims to regulate the safety, quality and efficacy standards of medical devices placed on the market in the european union. recent events, such as the scandal of fake silicone breast implants, have brought these issues to the public's attention. the european legislation regulating this sector is 20 years old and needs to be revised. the new regulation thus ensures greater safety for medical devices, not only for patients but also for healthcare professionals who use and handle them, and improves access to important information on medical devices for the public and healthcare professionals. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today, particularly the result achieved. it aims at improving patient safety. the question of the safety of european citizens will have to come first and be the focus of this report's concerns.
in writing. - the regulations applicable to medical devices are 20 years old and, although they have established the basic principles for their manufacture and marketing, they need to be improved and adapted to the current reality. once again, the proposal aims to ensure high safety standards for medical devices and to improve the procedure for incident reporting and safety corrective actions, so that a case like the pip cannot be repeated in space in the union, to the obvious detriment of users of medical devices. i find these concerns reflected in the text and therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. the report by mr roth-behrendt is on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009 and aiming to regulate the safety, quality and efficacy standards of medical devices placed on the market in the eu. there are hundreds of thousands of types of medical devices currently available on the market in the european union, such as rapid dressings, syringes, catheters, blood collection devices, sophisticated implants and life-support technologies. the current legislative framework is 20 years old and a review is now necessary after the shortcomings identified in recent years, such as the lack of transparency and the rapid approval and placing on the market of medical devices. the lack of research in patients and insufficient clinical data ultimately put patients themselves at risk. it is therefore important to ensure that new regulations are in place to ensure that medical devices are safe not only for patients but also for healthcare professionals who use or handle them, not to mention the layperson who comes into contact with the devices.
in writing. − following the serious problems experienced in several countries with silicone breast implants and metal hip implants, the european commission has drawn up a proposal for a regulation on medical devices. the medical devices covered by this regulation are any instrument, appliance, equipment, machine, implant or software designed for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring or treatment of disease, ranging from simple ligaments to more complex life support instruments such as pacemakers or implants of various kinds. the regulation aims to increase the transparency of procedures, improve information for patients, improve control under notified, subcontracted and subsidised bodies, lay down requirements for internal staff of national authorities and notified bodies and stricter rules for devices that can be reprocessed. the aim of the proposal has also been extended to medical devices for aesthetic purposes, with the aim of improving traceability to allow, for example, a rapid withdrawal of devices from the market. the final result of the vote substantially weakened the proposal that came out of the specialised committee on the environment, public health and food safety. nevertheless, positive steps have been taken in the face of a situation whose persistence is unacceptable and dangerous, and we have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − medical devices such as breast implants, pacemakers and hip replacements should be subject to tighter safety assessment across the eu, as agreed in this report. the proposed standards also aim to improve traceability to allow, for example, a rapid withdrawal of devices from the european market. medical devices cover a wide range of products, from household items such as quick-fix bandages, contact lenses, to dental fillings, x-ray machines, pacemakers, breast implants, hip replacements, etc. there are thousands of different types of devices on the market, classified into different risk categories. recent events, such as the scandal over fraudulent silicone breast implants and the problems caused by certain metal-on-metal hip replacements, have brought these issues to the public's attention. these new rules are intended to strengthen the safety controls on medical devices, ensuring better traceability of medical devices and strengthening the supervision of certification bodies by national authorities with a view to ensuring patient safety. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the roth-behrendt report on the proposal for a regulation on medical devices, but with the same reservations as i always have about voting on such lengthy and technical legislative instruments without being able to properly assess their impact. firstly, this is a matter which is largely of a technical and regulatory nature and should not be included in any legislative instrument of parliament. the question arises whether the possibility of delegating regulatory powers to the commission could not be used more generously. secondly, i think that the unilateral issuing of regulatory instruments on medical devices could increase the regulatory divergence between the union and our main economic partners, increasing the barriers to international trade. as the union negotiates an ambitious trade and investment treaty with the us, including the approximation of regulatory standards, i believe that legislative instruments such as these should be subject to an impact assessment of their implications for the union's international trade and also be subject to prior consultation in the regulatory dialogue with the us and other important trading partners of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which lays down stricter safety assessment rules for medical devices. the rules adopted today by the european parliament also aim to improve the traceability of dms so that, for example, in the event of a defect or risk, their holders can be quickly identified and/or withdrawn from the market as quickly as necessary. these new standards also seek to strengthen the supervision of certification bodies by national authorities with a view to ensuring patient safety. certification bodies, which often use subcontractors, should in future have permanent scientific staff with sufficient experience and training to assess the medical functionality of devices. patients should be provided with an implant card so that they can be identified and alerted in the event of incidents with similar products.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation repeals the directive currently in force by broadening and clarifying the scope, aligning definitions with international practice and by introducing stricter rules on clinical evaluation and research. the document addresses issues such as device classification, the approval system for medical devices, the labelling of devices as single-use (or reusable) devices and device reprocessing, clinical investigations, the use of the european database on medical devices (eudamed), market surveillance and oversight, and coordination between member states and the medical device coordination group. in view of these various points, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − following the serious problems experienced in several countries with silicone breast implants and metal hip implants, the european commission has drawn up a proposal for a regulation on medical devices. medical devices covered by this regulation are any instrument, appliance, equipment, machine, implant or software designed for the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring or treatment of disease, ranging from simple ligatures to more complex life support instruments such as pacemakers or implants of various kinds. the regulation aims to increase the transparency of procedures, improve information for patients, improve control under notified, subcontracted and subsidised bodies, lay down requirements for internal staff of national authorities and notified bodies and stricter rules for devices that can be reprocessed. the final result of the vote substantially weakened the proposal that came out of the specialised committee. we still voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the main cause of the problem is the current incentive for shipowners to go to the sites with the lowest standards, since they are the ones who pay the highest price. i believe that a mechanism should be introduced to finance environmentally friendly ship recycling. all ships using ports in the european union should pay a tonnage-based fee. the fees would go to a fund which would offer a premium to ship recycling yards that comply with the provisions of this regulation, making them competitive. the premium would only be paid for the recycling of ships flying the flag of the european union for at least two years. such a measure would increase the value of european union ships, as the listed shipyards could offer a higher price to the shipowner and as such dissuade shipowners from changing flags, while ensuring that a last-minute change of flag is not rewarded.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the term 'commercial'.
in writing. - due to the various hazardous materials on board a ship, these are considered hazardous waste and can therefore currently only be legally dismantled in oecd countries. however, this obligation is systematically breached, with around 90% of eu member state flagged vessels actually being decommissioned in 2009 outside the oecd, mostly in south east asia, with significant environmental and health impacts. the commission's proposal, which i support, thus seeks to significantly reduce the negative impacts of recycling ships flying the flag of an eu member state, particularly in south asia, without creating unnecessary economic burdens.
in writing. the report by mr carl schlyter is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on ship recycling. the accelerated retirement of single-hull tankers, the economic crisis and a significant overcapacity increased shipbreaking worldwide sixfold between 2007 and 2009 (from 4,2 million gt to 24,9 million gt) due to the forthcoming entry into force of the imo international convention for the control and management of ships' ballast water and sediments and the low demand for freight transport, it is expected to increase further. it is intended that a european list of recycling yards should be established anywhere in the world, provided that they comply with eu standards for the protection of human health and the environment. i consider that an adequate inventory is a prerequisite for proper ship recycling and the shipping industry formally committed in 2009 to produce inventories for ships. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide the necessary information to the member states on the status of the vessels in the eu.
in writing. - this is the second time that this report has been tabled in plenary, and this time the outcome of the trilogue negotiations with the commission and the council has been voted on. the text now before us has been clearly weakened by the original proposal. as we have said before, we are concerned both with working conditions and the safeguarding of workers' rights and with the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment. the text adopted does not give clear guarantees that practices which call into question these aspects will be banned by regulatory regulation. although it contains important aspects such as the creation of an inventory of hazardous materials for all ships calling at eu ports, a specific recycling plan for ships for recycling, and more explicit requirements for ship recycling yards, the agreed text does not discourage shipowners from resorting to landfill. in other words, they change flags and transfer their registration to recycle the ships in third countries with more permissive environmental standards, at a lower cost, and they do so on the beach, which can cause damage to the health of workers and the environment.
in writing. − the polluting and dangerous practices of ship dismantling remain a matter of great concern. at the end of their useful life, most large seagoing merchant ships are dismantled in shipyards using methods with considerable environmental and health impacts. these negative aspects prevent ship recycling from becoming a truly sustainable industry. this situation is likely to worsen as a large number of vessels are expected to be decommissioned in the coming years. the objective of this regulation is to significantly reduce the negative impacts of recycling of eu-flagged ships, in particular in south asia, without creating unnecessary economic burdens. the proposed regulation gives early effect to the requirements of the hong kong convention, thus accelerating its entry into force worldwide.
in writing. − the objective of the proposed ship recycling regulation is to significantly reduce the negative impacts of recycling ships flying the flag of an eu member state, particularly in south asia, without creating unnecessary economic burdens. the scope of the commission proposal is limited to vessels flying the flag of an eu member state. the commission proposes that a european list be drawn up of recycling yards anywhere in the world, provided they meet certain standards, but are not subject to compulsory checks. member states would have to lay down penalties, and ngos could apply for enforcement measures, including recourse to the courts. i voted in favour of this proposal, which included the following proposals which i support: a ban on the export of hazardous waste also to waste vessels; an inventory of hazardous materials for all vessels calling at eu ports; the creation of a fund based on mandatory contributions from the shipping industry to ensure environmentally friendly recycling.
in writing. - this regulation on ship recycling aims to protect the environment but also to comply with international law. the dismantling of a ship is a complex process, as it involves the destruction of hazardous materials on board the ships. european legislation, which requires ship recycling within oecd countries, is being systematically violated. this has negative consequences for health, the environment and a distortion of the market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. for these reasons i am in favour of adopting this report at first reading.
in writing. - this is the second time that this report has been tabled in plenary, and this time the outcome of the trilogue negotiations with the commission and the council has been voted on. the text now before us has been clearly weakened by the original proposal. as we have said before, we are concerned both with working conditions and the safeguarding of workers' rights and with the protection of public health and the preservation of the environment. the text adopted does not give clear guarantees that practices which call into question these aspects will be banned by regulatory regulation. the agreed text does not discourage ship owners from resorting to shore-side dismantling. in other words, they change flags and transfer their registration to recycle the ships in third countries with more permissive environmental standards, cheaper, carrying out the operation on the beach, and thus potentially causing damage to the health of workers and the environment. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report as this proposal aims to regulate the provision and harmonisation of population data in the member states. in my view, the achievement of this objective requires the establishment of a regulatory framework for the systematic production of european statistics on demography, which regulates the collection, processing and transmission of demographic statistical data, and i believe that the protection of citizens' private lives must be uncompromisingly defended. i would also like to stress that this report reiterates that demographic developments at regional level should be determined in statistical terms and that, in addition, proposals should be requested to make local, regional and national databases on demographic developments comparable, so as to allow data to be evaluated at european level and to promote the exchange of good practice at all levels: european, national, regional and local.
in writing. − this document aims to regulate the provision and harmonisation of population data in the member states. the achievement of this objective requires the establishment of a common regulatory framework for the systematic production of european statistics on demography, which governs the collection, processing and transmission of demographic statistical data. demographic challenges are a driving force in eu development and play an increasingly important role in this regard. demographic developments at the regional level should be determined in statistical terms.
in writing. - the eu in general and some states in particular, of which portugal is the most negative, are experiencing a very serious demographic problem. in order to have an adequate response, real and concrete data on the problem are needed. data comparability is essential for the proper handling of statistics. given that the union has sought to carry out cross-sectional assessments of all its member states, it is appropriate to expect that the available demographic data will allow for such comparability and relatively uniform treatment.
in writing. the aim of the commission proposal is to draw up a regulation on demographic statistics, which will regulate the harmonisation and provision of data on population and demographic events related to population. the rapporteur introduces some positive aspects on the updating and processing of data for the production of statistics at european level. aspects which allow better comparability and, to that extent, give statistics greater utility. however, we cannot accept article 4, which supports double majority voting in the council on the basis of the population criterion, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, thus putting the eu's harmonised statistics on demography at the service of power dynamics and inequality relations between member states in the council. this debate on demographic statistics raises issues of some sensitivity for many eu countries. it is justified that this matter should be discussed separately at institutional level and not be reduced to a technical discussion, referred to any proposal for a technical regulation by the commission.
in writing. - this proposal provides for the development of a regulation on demographic statistics, which will regulate the harmonization and provision of data on population and demographic events related to population. with the growing and complex demographic challenges, a clear need for common legislation at european level on the subject of demographic statistics has emerged. the european commission needs high quality information on population and population-related demographic developments in the union. only with statistical quality on demography will it be possible to draw up reliable policies that will help the eu find its way out of the crisis we are in.
in writing. − this proposal aims to regulate the provision and harmonisation of population data in the member states. the achievement of this objective requires the establishment of a common regulatory framework for the systematic production of european statistics on demography governing the collection, processing and transmission of demographic statistical data. the proposed amendments focus on the role of the regions in this process, including the requirement to also transmit regional statistics on demography (if applicable) to eurostat, so as to enable the identification of regional differences in demographic development. since the text leaves open the frequency and number of data to be provided, it should be noted at the outset that no excessive financial or administrative burden should be imposed on the statistical authorities. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − this report suggests the creation of a common regulatory framework for the production of european demographic statistics, through the collection, processing and transmission of these data. the existence of a standardisation of these statistics enhances the development of the european union itself, allowing various comparisons between member states to be made, not only at national but also at regional level. the data collected can also be used to create indicators of different types and it should be stressed that the processing of these data is central to the production of statistics valid at european level.
in writing. the aim of the commission proposal is to draw up a regulation on demographic statistics, which will regulate the harmonisation and provision of data on population and demographic events related to population. the rapporteur introduces some positive points on the updating and processing of data for the production of statistics at european level, in particular by focusing on the creation of comparability indicators. however, we cannot accept article 4 which supports the double majority voting in the council on the basis of the population criterion enshrined in the lisbon treaty in order to use the eu's harmonised statistics on demography to work out the power dynamics between member states in the council. this issue needs to be discussed separately at institutional level and not hidden in a technical regulation, as it goes far beyond the scope and competence of the specialised committee.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds that sexual and reproductive health and rights are basic elements of human dignity and development and a fundamental pillar of social and economic progress. recently collected data demonstrate the persistence of serious sexual and reproductive health challenges worldwide and more specifically in developing countries. the european union, in addition to making firm political commitments, must also play a role as a political actor in the field of development in favour of sexual and reproductive health and rights. the european union plays an important role in the promotion, implementation and defence of sexual and reproductive health and rights at international level, including in the post-2015 development framework, in order to ensure that sexual and reproductive health and rights of the population are a priority in the post-2015 global development framework and in the follow-up to the rio+20 conference. finally, i urge the european commission to play a crucial role in ensuring that european development cooperation adopts a human rights-based approach with an explicit emphasis and tangible objectives in the area of sexual and reproductive health and rights.
in writing. - the disturbing circumstance that words and concepts do not always mean what they appear to mean is well reflected in this motion for a resolution. permeated with euphemisms, it appears to have a benevolent purpose when, in fact, it has a very different one. the question is whether a doctor can claim conscientious objection and refuse to perform an abortion on request, whether parents should have a say in the content of sex education given to their minor children, whether member states can take different positions on abortion or whether the practice of abortion constitutes a fundamental right to be imposed by the community institutions on states, health services and families. it is regrettable that self-proclaimed pluralists insist on imposing their truths based on materialistic views of human life, unable to recognize rights and dignity in the most defenseless of human beings and to keep pace with scientific discoveries and medical advances in the field of the gestation period.
in writing. − i agree with who that reproductive health addresses reproductive processes, functions and systems at all stages of life. it therefore implies that people are able to lead responsible, satisfying and safe sex lives and that they have the ability to reproduce and the freedom to decide whether, when and how often they want to do so. implicit in this is the right of men and women to be informed and to have access to safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of fertility regulation that are appropriate to their choices, as well as the right to access to appropriate health services that allow women to have a safe pregnancy and childbirth and provide couples with the best chance of having a healthy baby. for sexual health to be achieved and maintained, the sexual rights of all people must be respected, protected and fulfilled. i believe that this report, once the exaggerations have been removed, has every chance of winning wide support in parliament and i therefore voted in favour of referring it back to the committee responsible.
in writing. - this report was not voted on. a conservative and reactionary right-wing maneuver (pass the redundancy) sent the report back to the committee on women's rights and gender equality, from where it had come. we voted against the referral back to committee. the plenary should have spoken on the text now and it is regrettable that it has not done so. the report welcomes the achievements of decades of women's struggle for their rights guarantee and fulfilment of sexual and reproductive rights, quality public health service, free access to contraceptives, family planning services with specific characteristics, implementation of comprehensive sexuality education, access to reproductive health services, including maternal and newborn health care, public services and insurance for stis, improvement of std prevention and treatment services. but we also believe that the so-called austerity policies are contributing to the suffocation of public services, to the closure of maternity hospitals and health centres, to the dismissal of teachers, making it impossible to pursue the objectives set out. and this acknowledgement was missing from the report.
in writing. - this report was not voted on in plenary and was referred back to the committee on women's rights and gender equality because the ultra-conservative right did not want it to be known what they were going to vote on. we voted against referring the report back to the committee. we believe that this report presents the struggles and achievements of women over many years for their rights, such as: free access to contraceptives and safe voluntary termination of pregnancy services, family planning services, comprehensive sexuality education and services for youth, prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, guarantee and enforcement of sexual and reproductive rights, maternal and newborn health care. we also believe that this report comes at a very important time, when the current political and economic context threatens access to and quality of health services. austerity measures and budget cuts in the member states (notably portugal) are contributing to a dismantling of public services, with the closure of maternity hospitals and health centres, layoffs of health professionals, and also teachers. which in this way makes defense and the right to quality health care unfeasible. we would vote in favour if the report were the vote.
in writing. - this report was not voted on in plenary and was referred back to the committee on women's rights and gender equality because the ultra-conservative right did not want it to be known what they were going to vote on. we voted against referring the report back to the committee. we believe that this report presents the struggles and achievements of women over many years for their rights, such as: free access to contraceptives and safe voluntary termination of pregnancy services, family planning services, comprehensive sexuality education and services for youth, prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases, guarantee and enforcement of sexual and reproductive rights, maternal and newborn health care. we also believe that this report comes at a very important time, when the current political and economic context threatens access to and quality of health services. austerity measures and budget cuts in the member states (notably portugal) are contributing to a dismantling of public services, with the closure of maternity hospitals and health centres, layoffs of health professionals, and also teachers. which in this way makes defense and the right to quality health care unfeasible. we would vote in favour if the report were the vote.
in writing. - we voted against referring this report back to the committee because this report had already been adopted in the committee on women's rights and gender equality after a lengthy discussion. we believe that the house should now take a decision on the text. we believe that much of what is reflected in this report coincides with decades of women's struggle for their rights: guarantee and fulfilment of sexual and reproductive rights, quality public health service, free access to contraceptive means, family planning services with specific characteristics, implementation of comprehensive sexuality education, access to reproductive health services, including maternal and newborn health care, public services and insurance of stds, improvement of std prevention and treatment services. but we also believe that the political instruments for budgetary consolidation created by the eu are contributing to the suffocation of public services, the closure of maternity hospitals and health centres, the dismissal of teachers, which makes it impossible to pursue the objectives set out.
in writing. - i welcome this report, beginning by urging the european union to develop, in collaboration with the sahel countries, priority development policies based on an approach based on human rights and fundamental freedoms to mitigate the food crisis and the problems of malnutrition and hunger, to resist drought and to combat natural disasters. i also urge the european commission to optimise the use of funds for the fight against malnutrition, in line with these priority policies, in order to meet the needs of the affected population and to support the development of local capacities in these countries, in order to ensure the success of aid. i would like to conclude by recalling that a long-term commitment is needed to create a strategy for drought resilience in the sael region, in order to avoid recurrent food crises and the need for massive humanitarian aid every time a new drought occurs. in my view, this commitment implies a lasting partnership between governments, regional institutions, donors and financial institutions.
in writing. − the sael region is one of the poorest in the world, facing serious problems in the fields of human rights, the rule of law, security and armed conflict, as well as serious problems of economic and social development. the establishment of democracy, peace and good governance is a key challenge for the sahel countries, which must work to promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, eradicate discrimination against women and minorities, promote education and ethnic reconciliation. the maternal mortality rate in mali is the highest in the world. a part of the population in these countries lacks access to medical care and suffers from numerous endemic diseases, such as cholera, meningitis, measles and hiv-aids. the fight against impunity, the compensation of victims and the accountability of all perpetrators of serious human rights violations, regardless of their affiliation and status, including cases of gender-based violence during the conflict, which constitute a real affront to the dignity of women, are key conditions for ensuring lasting peace and stability in mali.
in writing. − the sael region shows worrying signs of a growing deterioration in the living conditions and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of its people. the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean, and the european union is also committed to the development of the mediterranean. the recent french intervention in mali demonstrates the geostrategic complexity of the situation and the risks of the spread of fundamentalism and terrorism in the area. the european union must play an active part in finding solutions to the concrete problems and in providing effective support to the most deprived populations.
in writing. - we are deeply divided on this report. for example, there is a certain view, which runs through the whole text, that the countries of the region suffer from a kind of endemic corruption. no responsibility is attributed to colonial (and, by the way, neocolonial) occupation and domination and its consequences. no mention of the interference and conflicts that the eu and us powers have been waging in the region to continue to dominate its immense natural resources. the conflict in mali and the disastrous consequences for its people are presented as a consequence of the internal conflict alone, and the responsibility for france's intervention in that country (which the report supports) is dismissed. the consequences of the military attack on libya and the political and military support for terrorist groups by the nato powers were also highlighted. the role of these groups and the proliferation of weapons originating in libya, subsequently used in mali, destabilising the whole sahel region, is being underestimated. in spite of all this, we take it as a positive fact that there can be no solutions for the sahel region unless the inalienable right of the sarawi people to self-determination is exercised, which presupposes an end to the occupation of western sahara by morocco.
in writing. − the sael region is one of the poorest in the world and faces serious problems in the fields of human rights, the rule of law, security and armed conflict, as well as serious problems of economic and social development. extreme poverty in the region is reflected in the 2012 united nations human development index, which includes niger (186th), chad (184th), burkina faso (183rd) and mali (182nd) among the six least developed countries in the world. political instability, poverty and border insecurity affecting the entire sael region are major human rights challenges and require a properly coordinated and holistic approach, taking into account the entire sael region. the establishment of democracy, peace and good governance is a key challenge for the sahel countries, which must work to promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, eradicate discrimination against women and minorities, promote education and ethnic reconciliation. the eu will do everything it can to help this region achieve this.
in writing. - this report focuses on the sael region, which includes the following countries: mauritania, mali, niger, burkina faso and chad, and on the question of western sahara and the tindouf refugee camps. this region has suffered for decades from constant human rights violations, which are now visible due to the international intervention in the conflict in mali. problems such as organized crime, slavery, trafficking in human beings, drugs and arms, the question of extremist groups, the lack of a genuine rule of law that protects and guarantees human rights, are just a few examples. in addition to the cotonou agreement, the union's relations with the region are based on the lines of action set out in the eu strategy for the sael. the rapporteur calls for a review of the directive with a view to inserting new elements to safeguard human rights. it also supports the application of sanctions to perpetrators of persistent human rights violations. i am in favour of the adoption of this report.
in writing. - this report includes some points with which we disagree. the idea that the countries of the region suffer from a kind of virus of corruption, that the disease is chronic and that there is no responsibility for colonial occupation or the way in which the colonial powers have treated these countries and their peoples, is unacceptable. how false is the idea that nothing has to do equally with the interference and conflicts that the eu and us powers have been carrying out in the region. the conflict in mali and the disastrous consequences for its people are presented as a consequence of the internal conflict alone, and the responsibility for france's intervention in that country (which the report supports) is dismissed. the consequences of the military attack on libya and the political and military support for terrorist groups by the nato powers were also highlighted. the role of these groups in the proliferation of weapons originating in libya, which were subsequently used throughout the sael region and the middle east, is being underestimated. we cannot, however, fail to welcome the fact that solutions for the sael region can only be found by exercising the inalienable right of the sarawi people to self-determination.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that negotiations on financial instruments for external action are under way. this report provides a unique opportunity to make recommendations to the council and the eeas on the next programming period. i would stress that it is essential to improve the complementarity between thematic and geographical programmes in order to avoid damaging gaps in countries where the commission will suspend bilateral aid. i also believe that there is a need for better coordination between the thematic and regional programmes. particular attention should also be paid to the use of blended funding arrangements to cover as many csos and local authorities as possible. in addition, these funding modalities should be identified through an inclusive dialogue with csos and local authority associations. i strongly support that good governance and development contracts, sectoral reform contracts and state consolidation contracts should be used to strengthen national decentralisation reforms in order to more effectively support the potential and needs of local authorities in partner countries.
in writing. − following the busan conference on aid effectiveness for development, the international community strongly called for a shift from a strict aid effectiveness agenda to a broader development effectiveness agenda. the principle of democratic ownership puts citizens at the heart of development, promoting the active role of civil society and local authorities in the context of policy-making. the european union needs to work increasingly towards responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations between governments, partners, civil society organisations and local authorities in order to achieve more lasting development outcomes. in this regard, the european union should give priority to initiatives aimed at promoting a partnership for accountability at national level. the commission's initiative to develop roadmaps for engagement with civil society organisations is welcomed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − it is essential to continue to support partnerships between local authorities in european countries and partner countries that have proven effective in capacity building and poverty reduction. i also consider it important that local authorities in the new member states and the old member states exchange knowledge on development cooperation practices to bridge the technical knowledge gap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on local authorities and civil society: europe's commitment to sustainable development, because it includes proposals to strengthen the role of participatory democracy in the definition and implementation of development policies through greater involvement of local authorities and civil society organisations, in particular human rights and gender equality organisations.
in writing. - following the busan conference, the international community called for a definitive move to a broader agenda on development effectiveness. civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities are calling for a systematic placing of the human rights approach at the heart of development and for democratic ownership to be ensured in the context of development policy. the principle of democratic ownership puts citizens at the centre of development, with governments giving csos leeway to do their job. i believe that the eu needs to work increasingly to create responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between partner governments, csos and local authorities in order to achieve more lasting development outcomes. for maximum impact of aid effectiveness and to strengthen local democracy, cooperation between local authorities and csos is essential at the local level from the point of view of development as a whole.
in writing. − the eu needs to work increasingly to create responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between partner governments and civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities in order to achieve more lasting development outcomes. to promote more democratic societies, the eu must have a stronger political commitment to fostering a favourable environment for csos and local authorities and strengthening their capacities, as well as to mainstreaming these issues in policy and programming. the promotion of an enabling environment should be considered a priority in the eu's position on the post-2015 development agenda.
in writing. − this report follows on from the busan conference, where civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities called for a human rights and democratic ownership approach to development policy, promoting the active role of so-called civil society in the context of policy formulation and implementation processes. we agree that development cooperation policy must identify structures in local authorities and in the multiple social organizations of developing countries to be supported and strengthened. however, the report does not avoid a certain instrumental view of eu development policy and, more specifically, of this support for civil society, linking it to facilitating the satisfaction of eu interests and the imperial ambitions of its powers. as we said in the plenary debate, any attempt to interfere in the setting of priorities for developing countries must be rejected. the sovereignty of developing countries, their political and economic choices and options, taking into account their specific situation and conditions, must be fully respected. it is unacceptable that under the guise of support for civil society, interference is promoted and encouraged in choices which only the people of these countries can make.
in writing. − civil society organisations (csos) put citizens at the heart of development. the eu needs to work increasingly to create accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between partner governments, csos and local authorities. only then can more lasting development results be achieved. the eu should give priority to initiatives aimed at promoting a partnership for accountability at national level between csos, parliaments and courts of auditors. by fostering an environment favourable to csos, the eu ultimately promotes more democratic societies. the promotion of a cso-friendly environment should be considered a priority in the eu's position on the post-2015 development agenda and eu delegation staff should be trained accordingly. the eu should support a monitoring mechanism with regard to an enabling environment, including for policies and regulatory arrangements, as well as multi-stakeholder dialogues. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in september 2012, the commission published the communication on the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe's engagement with civil society in external relations and in may 2013 the communication on capacity building of local authorities in partner countries for better governance and more tangible development outcomes, which created a new landscape for eu cooperation with civil society organisations and local authorities in a changing global context characterised by significant economic, political and social challenges. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to promote the participation of civil society organisations and local authorities in the ongoing debate on blending mechanisms in the context of the eu combined financing platform for external cooperation and calls on the commission to develop binding guidelines, carry out impact assessments and create inclusive monitoring mechanisms that ensure the consultation and participation of the populations involved at all stages of the project cycle and that ensure that blending contributes to poverty eradication.
in writing. − this report follows the commission's communications on the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe's engagement with civil society in external relations and on strengthening the capacity of local authorities in partner countries for better governance and more tangible development outcomes. the aim is to improve the effectiveness of development aid by involving local authorities and civil society more closely in the selection and management of projects, with a focus on human rights. a more transparent and inclusive strategy, where associations and local government participate in the democratic process to achieve the goal of sustainable development and growth. this requires greater coordination between thematic and geographical objectives and the use of combined funding to cover a greater number of civil and local entities, together with territorial decentralisation. i am voting in favour of this report for the reasons i have just mentioned.
in writing. − this report follows on from the busan conference, where civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities called for a human rights and democratic ownership approach to development policy, promoting the active role of so-called civil society in the context of policy formulation and implementation processes. we agree that development cooperation policy must identify in the local authorities and in the various social organizations in developing countries structures to be supported and strengthened. however, the report does not avoid a certain instrumental view of eu development policy and, more specifically, of this support for civil society, linking it to facilitating the satisfaction of eu interests and the imperial ambitions of its powers. but we have not rejected the report under consideration.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in the current situation of economic turbulence, both in europe and in the rest of the world, two of the greatest challenges are unemployment and the ability of people to secure their livelihood. the fight against unemployment must be our main objective and this is where education and training have a key role to play. in the long term, education and skills development are key to innovation and economic growth. however, a high-quality education that provides skills useful for labour market needs must also focus on the development of personal skills and societal attitudes. i consider it essential that the right skills for today's world are identified urgently - not just for students and young people entering the labour market, but also for others who need retraining to improve their personal situation in terms of employment, social inclusion, family life, active citizenship or self-realisation, for example.
in writing. − on 20 november 2012, the european commission presented its communication rethinking education: investing in skills for better socioeconomic outcomes, which proposes to create the right skills for employment, improve basic literacy and numeracy, and strengthen transversal and entrepreneurial skills. the fight against unemployment must be the main objective and this is where education and training play an important role. a high-quality education that provides skills useful for labour market needs must also focus on the development of personal skills. attention needs to be focused on adult education and lifelong learning programmes which help adults to re-qualify themselves to apply for other jobs during their lifetime. on the other hand, education and training must be made more accessible to vulnerable groups. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − in the current economic turmoil, both in europe and the rest of the world, two of the biggest challenges are unemployment and people's ability to make a living. the fight against unemployment must be the eu's main objective and this is where education and training have a key role to play. in the long term, education and skills development are key to innovation and economic growth. unemployment among young people up to 25 years in the eu reached 23.5% in march 2013. at the same time, there were over 2 million unfilled jobs. some jobs require skills that are not available to enough young people today.
in writing. − the quality of education and the supply of qualifications has been increasing worldwide and the union cannot be left behind. a comprehensive and accelerated reform is needed to ensure the future capacity of the european labour market based on high-quality skills. we are witnessing a skills gap in europe, where education and training systems continue to fail to deliver the skills most suited to existing employability. although youth unemployment in the eu has reached 23.5%, there are still more than 2 million unfilled jobs. by 2020, more than 20% of jobs are expected to require higher-level qualifications, and this demand will be difficult to meet if we fail to reduce the unacceptable levels of early school leaving in several member states and the number of adults with a low level of education, currently at around 73 million. in the context of the current economic crisis, two of the biggest challenges are unemployment and people's ability to make a living. investment in education and training for skills development is thus essential to stimulate growth and competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on rethinking education, because it includes proposals to reflect on models and modernise education systems, making them more appropriate to economic and social contexts. investment in education is necessary as a key element in responding to the crisis and the alarming levels of unemployment, but above all in preparing european citizens well prepared for the enormous challenges ahead.
in writing. − on 20 november 2012, the commission presented a communication entitled rethinking education: investing in skills for better socio-economic outcomes, with three main ideas: (i) providing the right skills for employment; (ii) new ways of teaching and learning; and (iii) new approaches to funding and partnerships. almost a year later, the theme remains as current and pressing. in a context of widespread economic crisis and rising youth unemployment, investing in education can only be a more and more real challenge for states and the eu. skills education and labour market education is what i have been advocating and what i believe should be the strategy adopted in the context of the development of the eu 2020 objectives.
in writing. the report by ms katarína neveďalová is on the topic of rethinking education. in this context, i consider it essential to recall the priority goals and objectives to which the eu has committed itself in the europe 2020 strategy, namely the achievement of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. investment in quality education and training and therefore in human capital is important to prepare students for the changing needs of the labour market and to promote their social and occupational integration. i think that in this area we must always take into account the role of non-formal and informal learning, the work of youth organisations, quality internships and volunteering. i think these should all be recognised as tools that create the first bridges between students' lives and the labour market, spreading the spirit of innovation among young people. individual personal skills such as critical thinking, teamwork, problem solving, communication, self-confidence, initiative and leadership are also necessary to be better prepared for life.
in writing. the report concludes that the crisis and the so-called austerity measures reduce the possibilities of access to education (due to budget cuts) and increase unemployment among those who finish their studies. nevertheless, it insists on pursuing the same path and the same policies. the report welcomes the european commission's view and proposals on the subject. online education, online courses, reducing the number of teachers, reducing the cost of education, student loans (to prevent dropout, it is said with total brazenness) are some of the ideas aligned here. the report calls for the review of education systems, advocating their adaptation to market needs and interests, encouraging public-private partnerships, developing cooperation between business and universities, including curriculum planning and the definition of educational guidelines. at least, a little bit of the usual neo-liberal rubbish. nothing about the integral education of the individual, nothing about the need for a free, quality public education. what is advocated in this report is, on the contrary, a teaching linked to the bologna process, the eu 2020 strategy and the interests of the market. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - more and more young people are out of education, out of work and out of training. the union cannot afford to lose a generation. the only tool capable of avoiding this outcome is effective, affordable and quality education, which meets the needs of the labour market. the re-evaluation of education systems in europe requires close cooperation: social dialogue between educational institutions and the private sector, social partners, social services (employment agencies), regional authorities or ngos needs to be improved, in order to exchange views on good practice and to promote partnerships as a means of transition from the world of education to the world of work or employment. in modernising education and training policies, it is equally important to increase the involvement of civil society and corporate social responsibility in the business community. every human being has the right to access education. if we want this right to be a reality, we must invest in quality education in a sustainable and lasting way. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution of the european parliament on rethinking education, which highlights the following main objectives which i support: to tackle the issue of youth unemployment (23.5% of young europeans are unemployed); to update outdated education systems; to match the opportunities provided by educational institutions with the current labour market; to design new systems to prevent this situation from happening again in the future, using new teaching methods, involving social, regional and private partners in the educational process and integrating lifelong learning pathways; to broaden the mission of education and training policies to have a specific role in promoting active citizenship, well-being and personal development, and in improving structured social dialogue.
in writing. − the youth unemployment rate in the european union reached 23.5% in may 2013, with portugal having a much higher rate of 42.1% in the first quarter of 2013. these figures force us to rethink national education systems and their adaptation to the needs of the labour market. this report sets out a set of actions to be taken into account at union level and specific recommendations for member states, based on three guidelines: providing the right skills for employment; new ways of teaching and learning; and new approaches to funding and partnerships. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. education and continuing training are the key to growth and innovation in the union. for these reasons, member states should not neglect to invest in new forms of learning.
in writing. − this report supports the european commission's communication on the subject and proposes actions at eu level and measures to be recommended to member states. it concludes that the crisis and austerity measures are leading to a decline in access to education (with budget cuts in education) and an increase in unemployment for those who finish their studies. but he is in favour of deepening the same policies. online education (with online courses) is pointed out as a solution, legitimizing the reduction of investments in education. to prevent school dropout, it is suggested that student loans be used. the report calls for a review of education systems, advocating their adaptation to market needs and interests, encouraging public-private partnerships, through the development of cooperation between enterprises and universities, including in the definition of curriculum planning and educational guidelines. this is a completely unacceptable and even perverse view. it ignores the social function of education systems in society. this can only be achieved by a public, free and quality system. what this report advocates is the opposite, an education linked to the bologna process, the eu 2020 strategy, the interests of the market, basically an education serving the interests of big capital. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by reiterating the importance of an independent judiciary, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and the effective fight against corruption for the strengthening of the rule of law and democracy. i welcome the eu's new negotiating approach, which firmly places these nuclear areas at the heart of the accession process and provides for an early opening of chapters 23 and 24 on the basis of clear and detailed action plans, so as to promote the adoption of the necessary legislation, the establishment of institutions and the achievement of solid implementation results. i also stress the need to define fair and transparent frameworks of reference for the whole process, which can convert the criteria into concrete steps towards accession. i conclude by considering that a stronger link between eu financial assistance and the priorities of enlargement policy, in particular as regards the rule of law, is essential to improve the independence, accountability, impartiality, professionalism, transparency and effectiveness of judicial systems.
in writing. − the effectiveness of pre-accession projects implemented in the areas of the judiciary and the fight against corruption depends mainly on the political will of the authorities to fully adopt and implement reforms. i believe that strong political support is needed in most of the candidate and potential candidate countries in terms of implementing effective reforms in the fight against corruption and organised crime or a fully independent judicial system.
in writing. − in the context of enlargement policy, it has become a top priority to support the candidate countries, from an early stage, on issues relating to judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime. to this end, the candidate countries and potentially candidate countries benefit from community pre-accession funds, in particular through the instrument for pre-accession assistance. clear and detailed action plans should therefore be drawn up, promoting the adoption of the necessary legislation, the establishment of institutions and the achievement of sound results. to this end, fair and transparent frameworks of reference should be defined for the whole process, which can translate the criteria into concrete steps towards accession. it is essential to provide adequate support to the political will and concrete efforts in those countries to promote the existence of an independent judiciary, the effective protection and promotion of fundamental rights and the effective fight against corruption and organised crime, thus contributing to the strengthening of the rule of law and democracy. i regret that ipa-i funding is very limited compared to the importance of these areas. the level of funding should therefore be increased, its management improved and more effective monitoring of projects and results achieved ensured.
in writing. − strengthening judicial systems and fighting corruption in the candidate countries and potentially candidate countries is a priority for a union that aims to maintain high standards in these areas, thus defending both the member states and its citizens. the need to ensure that the states which are proposing to join the union show real signs of change in this respect and commit themselves to human rights, democracy and good governance is now clear. given the importance of the issues involved and their impact on the applicant countries, i believe it is right that these issues should be included in the preliminary stages of the application procedures from the outset and that they should play a central role in the application procedures. without justice there can be no democracy and no rule of law. the european union must not dispense with any of these three nor accept those who do not respect them.
in writing. − the fight against corruption and organised crime is a top priority for any candidate or potential candidate country wishing to join the european union. the importance of an independent judiciary, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and the effective fight against corruption is thus reiterated in order to strengthen the rule of law and democracy. i welcome the eu's new negotiating approach, which is firmly putting these nuclear areas at the heart of the accession process. clear and detailed action plans are advocated to promote the adoption of the necessary legislation, the establishment of institutions and the achievement of sound implementation results. it is also necessary to define fair and transparent frameworks of reference for the whole process that can convert the criteria into concrete steps towards accession.
in writing. − this report addresses the issue of eu assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries in their efforts to improve their judicial systems and fight corruption. the rapporteur states that despite some progress, links between criminals, organised crime networks and political elites continue to exist, particularly in several countries in the western balkans. the report expresses concern about this phenomenon. the rapporteur believes that in order to improve the independence, impartiality, accountability, professionalism, transparency and efficiency of judicial systems in these countries, it is important that there is a stronger link between eu financial assistance and the priorities of enlargement policy, especially as regards the rule of law. the rapporteur calls for additional financial assistance and greater involvement of key civil society actors in order to enhance the transparency of the judicial system and improve its long-term capacity, as well as those who play a role in monitoring and reporting the misuse of funds. kosovo, in this report, is one of the western balkan countries receiving financial assistance under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). we cannot support this report.
in writing. − the eu allocates a significant amount of pre-accession funds to help eu candidate countries make the necessary reforms to make this possible. it is very important that there is an independent judiciary in these countries, that fundamental rights are protected and promoted and that corruption is effectively combated in order to strengthen the rule of law and democracy. only then can these countries join the eu in the nearest possible future. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which stresses that the effectiveness of pre-accession projects implemented in the areas of the judiciary and the fight against corruption depends mainly on the political will of the authorities to adopt and fully implement reforms, and which stresses that candidate and potential candidate countries receive eu pre-accession assistance in order to bring their legal systems, both in the legislative framework and in practice, into line with european standards.
in writing. − the fight against corruption and organised crime is a top priority for any country applying for membership of the european union. the countries concerned benefit from community pre-accession funds to improve their judicial systems and intensify this fight if necessary. an independent, more predictable, efficient, fair and transparent judicial system is essential so that people can have full confidence in justice. however, the fight against corruption, especially in cases of political and judicial corruption, still presents a major challenge, which requires a new approach where these issues have a prominent place in the context of eu accession negotiations. the report also stresses the issue of transparency and argues that a database should be drawn up containing the list of projects financed under the pre-accession assistance programmes, which should then be made available to the public. i am voting in favour of this report because the fight against corruption and organised crime cannot stop and must continue to be a priority for the european union.
in writing. − this report addresses the issue of eu assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries in their efforts to improve their judicial systems and fight corruption. the rapporteur states that despite some progress, links between criminals, organised crime networks and political elites continue to exist, particularly in several countries in the western balkans. the report expresses concern about this phenomenon. the rapporteur calls for additional financial assistance and greater involvement of key civil society actors in order to enhance the transparency of the judicial system and improve its long-term capacity, as well as those who play a role in monitoring and reporting the misuse of funds. kosovo, in this report, is one of the western balkan countries receiving financial assistance under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). we do not agree with the application of this mechanism in any country.
in writing. - i support this report because patient safety contributes to improving quality of life. the harm caused to patients by adverse events associated with healthcare also imposes a heavy burden on society, which increases in times of economic crisis. for example, infections caused by clostridium difficile, which account for around 5% of all iacs in europe and are thought to cause 2% of hospital readmissions, are increasing in some member states and their financial impact on european health systems is expected to amount to eur 3,7 million in 2013. in addition to the clear benefits for patients, any investment in patient safety is thus a potential source of savings. the priority given to patient safety thus results in a reduction in the cost of treatment of patients suffering from adverse events associated with healthcare and thus in a better use of financial and human resources. patients have the right to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety.
in writing. − access to safe healthcare is the cornerstone of a quality healthcare system. it is a recognised fundamental right, valued by the european union, its institutions and its citizens. patients therefore expect every effort to be made to ensure their safety. the harm caused to patients by adverse events associated with healthcare imposes a heavy burden on society that increases in times of economic crisis. these events include healthcare-associated infections. the committee therefore advocates that member states should strengthen their efforts to empower citizens in matters of patient safety and the control of healthcare-associated infections, as well as their efforts to educate and train healthcare workers, patients and carers, and to carry out cross-border activities. in a context of ageing populations and increasing antibiotic resistance, patient safety, and in particular the prevention and control of infections, should be high on the political agenda of the european union as well as at national, regional and local level. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − access to safe healthcare is a recognised fundamental right, which is valued by the european union, its institutions and european citizens. patients have the right to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety. the health sector represents a high-risk domain. adverse events associated with health care can lead to serious injury, complications, or death in patients under treatment. in a context of ageing european populations and a worrying increase in antimicrobial resistance, patient safety, and in particular the prevention and control of cais, should be high on the political agenda of the european union as well as at national, regional and local level. member states should allocate appropriate means, including budgetary means, to patient safety.
in writing. - i support this recommendation which aims to strengthen patient safety and improve the quality of health systems. the lack of a satisfactory level of safety is not only a serious public health problem, but also a heavy economic burden on health resources which are unfortunately in many cases already very limited. it is unacceptable that 30 to 40 percent of adverse events associated with health care, causing serious injury, complication, suffering, or even death in patients under treatment, could have been prevented. enhancing patient safety should therefore be a priority not only because of the clear benefits for patients but also because it will allow for a better use of financial and human resources, including through a reduction in the cost of treatment for patients affected by these adverse events. i regret that so far only a limited number of member states have implemented the recommended actions and unfortunately there is still a lot to be done in the field of hospital and non-hospital care, particularly in terms of patient empowerment, education of healthcare professionals and carers, and it is equally important to establish european guidelines for patient safety standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on patient safety, as it includes recommendations to strengthen the prevention and control of infections associated with healthcare services. universal access to healthcare is a right of citizens and investment in the quality of these services benefits not only the quality of life of individuals but also society as a whole.
in writing. − access to safe healthcare is the cornerstone of a quality healthcare system. it is estimated that between 30% and 40% of adverse events associated with healthcare, both in the hospital and community care sectors, are preventable. adverse events include healthcare-associated infections (hcais). it is therefore essential to develop appropriate policies to ensure patient safety and to monitor progress and developments in this area, learning from best practice at european level.
in writing. − the report by mr oreste rossi is aimed at the commission's report to the council on the basis of the member states' reports on the implementation of the council recommendation on patient safety, including the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections (2009/c 151/01). healthcare-associated adverse events can result in serious injury, complications or suffering and even death in patients under treatment. we can't prevent adverse events that are linked to the risks inherent in interventions or medications, but we must do everything in our power to prevent those that are caused by medical errors and by gaps or failures in the health care chain. the latter account for 30% to 40% and may be preventable. i therefore agree with the improvements made, particularly in terms of the autonomy of patients, the education of health professionals and the training of health workers. efforts to establish european nomenclatures on patient safety and to develop european guidelines on patient safety standards need to be continued.
in writing. − quality healthcare is the fundamental foundation of any quality healthcare system. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. this report makes recommendations only. it is estimated that 30-40% of adverse events associated with healthcare, both in the hospital and community care sector, are preventable. this includes healthcare-associated infections (hacis). the report advocates that efforts should be made in the areas of patient empowerment and general training for health professionals and carers. patients should be informed about hci and research should be supported on the prevention and control of hospital infections, the danger of antimicrobial resistance of pathogenic agents and antibiotic resistance; european guidelines on patient safety standards should be developed and best practices considered. the rapporteur welcomes the actions taken at member state level which are primarily aimed at improving the overall safety of patients and preventing the emergence of iacs. it also welcomed the european commission's action in the field of general patient safety by promoting the exchange of good practice between member states. we voted in favour.
in writing. − a quality health system is obliged to ensure safe health care. safe healthcare is also a recognised fundamental right, which is valued by the european union, its institutions and european citizens. consequently, patients have the right to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety. the health sector represents a high-risk domain, as adverse events associated with healthcare (rather than the medical problem being treated) can lead to serious injury, complications or suffering and even death in patients under treatment. about 30 to 40 percent of adverse events associated with health care are preventable. adverse events include healthcare-associated infections (hcais). member states should carry out actions to empower citizens in patient safety and the prevention and control of csi, as well as education and training actions for healthcare professionals, but also for patients and their carers, and cross-border and other actions to promote research on patient safety and csi.
in writing. − patient safety is a major public health challenge for the european union. access to safe healthcare is the cornerstone of a quality healthcare system. it is also a recognised fundamental right, valued by the european union, its institutions and european citizens. consequently, patients have the right to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety. the health sector represents a high-risk domain, as adverse events associated with healthcare (rather than the medical problem being treated) can cause serious injury, complications or suffering and even death to patients under treatment. while some adverse events are linked to risks inherent in the interventions or medicines needed, others are caused by medical errors and gaps or failures in the care chain and can be avoided. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to assess the degree of effectiveness of the proposed measures. as some actions have only been started very recently or have not yet been implemented, the rapporteur supports the proposal to draw up a second progress report in june 2014.
in writing. − health is a sector of the utmost importance to the european union and access to medical care is recognised as a fundamental right. however, health is also a high risk factor, where any adversity can result in serious injury, complications or even death to the patient in question. it is estimated that between 30% and 40% of adverse events are preventable. these include healthcare-associated infections (hacis), which affect some 4.1 million patients in the eu each year. improving the safety of european patients is urgently needed. this can be done by setting up national patient safety programmes, establishing adverse event reporting systems, providing patient safety training for industry workers and developing research on the subject. member states are also encouraged to strengthen the empowerment of citizens with regard to the safety and prevention of iacs and to encourage local and regional authorities to give priority to mediation in the event of adverse events during medical care. better health security can avoid many of the complications that arise in european medical services, and i therefore agree with the adoption of this report.
in writing. the rapporteur recalls that eu action in the field of health is complementary to national policies and makes it clear that the eu should not interfere with the competences of the member states. it is estimated that 30-40% of adverse events associated with healthcare, both in the hospital and community care sector, are preventable. this includes healthcare-associated infections (hacis). the report advocates that efforts should be made in the areas of patient empowerment and general training for health professionals and carers. patients should be informed about iacs and research on the prevention and control of hospital-acquired infections should be supported, european guidelines on patient safety standards should be developed and best practices should be considered. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that deceptive commercial practices can take a variety of forms, most notably schemes operated by publishers of misleading directories, whereby a dishonest company sends out forms inviting companies to complete or update the company's name and contact details. other deceptive commercial practices include misleading payment forms in the form of invoices for services that the trader allegedly ordered when in fact he did not request them, offers to extend internet domain names, where a dishonest trader provides false information and exerts psychological pressure in order to conclude a contract for a price much higher than the price of registration with official suppliers, offering to further extend the protection of trademarks in other countries, although such protection can only be granted by official bodies. i welcome the commission communication on the protection of undertakings against commercial practices. i would suggest, however, that additional measures be taken in the field of prevention and information, law enforcement and criminal prosecution.
in writing. − advertising fraud can take many forms, the most common being payment forms, internet domain names, trademark fraud, work from home and get-rich-quick schemes. deceptive commercial practices can lead to market failures or distortions of competition, impairing the ability of companies to make informed and effective choices, and also have an impact on consumers, who end up paying more for products and services. in this connection, it is argued that the exchange of information between member states should be improved and that member states should set up a national focal point to which companies can turn to report their complaints and from which they can obtain information on judicial and non-judicial remedies. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − there is a need to protect companies against misleading commercial practices and to ensure that standards are effectively applied. additional measures are needed in the areas of prevention and information, law enforcement and criminal prosecution. international cooperation in combating such practices is also very important.
in writing. − the single market is a growth engine that provides consumers with more choice and better prices, and in this context it is essential that there is a dissemination of goods and services that provides consumers with better information and the possibility of making comparisons between different products, thus contributing to increasing competition. however, it is essential that companies using advertising as part of their business strategy do so honestly and with the utmost professional diligence. fraudulent commercial practices can take a variety of forms, such as fraudulent payment forms, schemes operated by fraudulent directory publishers, among others, which create market failures, distort the decision-making capacity of businesses and distort competition, and also have a serious impact on consumers. unfortunately, the level of protection for companies varies greatly between member states, with only belgium and austria, for example, having specific rules prohibiting the submission of misleading directory forms. i therefore support the strengthening of existing rules, in particular by introducing a clearer definition of misleading commercial practices, the creation of a blacklist of prohibited misleading commercial practices and the adoption of effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions.
in writing. - misleading advertising practices have a detrimental effect on consumer and business confidence and a very negative economic impact. i therefore welcome the commission communication on protecting businesses against deceptive commercial practices and ensuring that standards are effectively applied. in a globalised world highly dependent on technology, particular attention should be paid to deceptive practices on the internet, which are carried out under the guise of anonymity.
in writing. the report by mr cornelis de jong is aimed at misleading advertising. the most prominent of these deceptive advertising practices are schemes operated by publishers of misleading directories, whereby a dishonest company sends out forms inviting companies to fill in forms which in reality mean the involuntary signing of a contract which normally binds them for a minimum of three years to be included in a business directory for an annual price of eur 1000 or more. the level of protection of companies varies widely between member states. only austria and belgium have included in their legislation a specific prohibition of schemes operated by publishers of misleading directories. i believe that protecting companies against deceptive commercial practices and ensuring effective enforcement of the rules is worth making an extra effort. i agree with additional measures in the field of prevention and information, law enforcement and criminal prosecution. deceptive commercial practices are not a european phenomenon. the commission therefore stresses the importance of international cooperation in combating such practices.
in writing. the rapporteur welcomes the european commission's communication on the protection of enterprises, especially micro and small enterprises, against deceptive commercial marketing practices. it also called for the eu to take action to combat fraud and corruption. the report makes concrete proposals which can help in this fight. the rapporteur stresses the need for a greater and better exchange of information between member states and calls on them to set up or assign a national focal point to which companies and other victims can report misleading practices and through which they can obtain information on judicial or non-judicial recourse and help in prevention. the rapporteur supports the creation of a blacklist of deceptive commercial practices and calls on the member states to adopt legislation enabling victims of deceptive commercial practices to take collective action in proceedings against dishonest companies. in general, despite some reservations and disagreements, the objectives pursued by this report are positive and deserve our agreement.
in writing. − misleading advertising practices can take many forms, the most common being companies that produce business directories, payment forms, internet domain names, fraud in relation to trademark protection, fraudulent business opportunities, work from home or get-rich-quick schemes. the negative impact of deceptive, misleading and unfair advertising practices on economic growth, in particular for smes, and on fair competition in the internal market is of great concern, especially in the least developed member states, which are facing the worst effects of the financial crisis. we must continue to do everything possible to put an end to this kind of practice which only harms economic growth and development. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − fraudulent commercial practices can take a variety of forms, most notably schemes operated by fraudulent directory publishers, whereby a dishonest company sends out forms inviting companies to complete or update the company's name and contact details, apparently free of charge. the signatories later discover that they have in fact involuntarily signed a contract that normally binds them for a minimum of three years to be included in a company directory for an annual price that can exceed eur 1000. i voted in favour of this proposal which welcomes the commission communication on the protection of undertakings against deceptive commercial practices and the effective enforcement of standards and which suggests additional measures in the field of prevention and information, law enforcement and criminal prosecution to strengthen the proposal. the european parliament stressed the importance of international cooperation in combating deceptive commercial practices, which are not a purely european phenomenon.
in writing. - there are various forms that deceptive commercial practices can take. for example, some forms in company directories, where only later do the signatories discover that they have signed a contract binding them for a minimum of three years, paying annually 1000 euros or more. there are also invoices for services that were not actually ordered, and misleading offers for domain name extensions on the internet. currently, of all member states, only belgium and austria have legislation specifically prohibiting this scheme operated by misleading directory publishers. it is important to protect businesses against these practices and to ensure that the rules are effectively applied. there is also a need to highlight the importance of international cooperation, as these deceptive commercial practices are not unique to the european union.
in writing. the european commission has presented a communication to protect businesses, especially micro and small enterprises, against misleading commercial marketing practices. the rapporteur welcomes the communication but considers that deceptive commercial practices go beyond european borders and advocates international cooperation in combating such practices. the report therefore makes concrete proposals which can help in this fight. the rapporteur stresses the need for a greater and better exchange of information between member states and calls on them to set up or assign a national focal point to which companies and other victims can report misleading practices and through which they can obtain information on judicial or non-judicial recourse and help in prevention. the rapporteur supports the creation of a blacklist of deceptive commercial practices and calls on the member states to adopt legislation enabling victims of deceptive commercial practices to take collective action in proceedings against dishonest companies. the objectives pursued by this report are positive, although we do not agree that the motives for these actions are related to the question of competition in the internal market.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, salvatore iacolino, and our president, sonia alfano. i had the pleasure of serving as vice chairman of the special committee on organized crime, corruption and money laundering. the report we are discussing today is composed of these three thematic areas. in the case of the greens/efa group, we have insisted very strongly that money laundering, that is to say the hidden, criminal side of this crisis, should also be included in the mandate of this committee and i believe that this was an important addition to that mandate. since these three practices - organised crime, corruption and money laundering - are interlinked, they deserve a holistic and systematic approach, obviously to strengthen the rule of law, to strengthen the fundamental rights of citizens and to ensure that the effectiveness of democratic institutions is not eroded. in our work over the last 18 months we have taken a constructive approach in drawing up this report. our idea is that we need a criminal justice approach to organised crime with clear rules, with precise safeguards and with respect for fundamental rights. we want to eliminate, as far as possible, the legal loopholes that make tax evasion and money laundering possible. we want to reduce the social damage caused by organised crime, and we want to combat the degradation of human dignity caused by human trafficking. we support the creation of european bodies and agencies that will promote the rule of law and help uphold the values of the european union. what we have fought against during this process, and what we will always continue to denounce, are some practices which citizens have repeatedly refused to accept, such as investigations based on huge databases which investigate suspects mixed with innocents, the predominant use of technology to carry out police work or the carrying out of investigative work without democratic scrutiny. we do not want a europe that has an internal security approach to issues involving the rights of european citizens, we want rights to be respected. we also do not want a europe which closes its borders, mixing the just fight against human trafficking with the closing of its borders to refugees and asylum seekers. we believe that this report has covered a lot of ground and has moved in the right direction. it reiterates some of the positions already adopted by this house on the elimination of forced labour, on the elimination of tax havens, on the elimination of banking secrecy. i think all of this is very important. there are a few points, however, which we have as amendments, one of which is to reject a request for the european union to move forward with a swift programme or a pnr programme. this has already been rejected in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and we think it is not reasonable for the crim committee to ask for the same things. tomorrow, our vote will depend on that crucial amendment. and finally, very quickly, i would like to ask mrs malmström to explain to us whether she thinks that the legislation on corruption is sufficiently advanced, what she has to say about the practices that mix, as for example in the libor case, the hidden side of the banking practices with corruption between the public service and the private sector. i'd like to hear your opinion on that.
mr president, commissioner malmström, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr salvatore iacolino on his report, which analyses the threats facing the union and its member states and proposes a number of measures and actions to enable the union to prevent and combat these threats effectively at international, european and national level. organised crime poses a serious threat to the integrity of the european union and the security of its citizens and has a significant impact on the economy, reducing the potential for growth and tax revenues of the member states and the union. money laundering is linked not only to the typical activities of organised crime but also to corruption and tax crimes. in order to combat this effectively, a coherent and homogeneous legislative framework should be created, providing for proportionate and dissuasive sanctions, and judicial and police cooperation should be strengthened at european and international level. the fight against corruption in the political and private sectors must also be placed at the top of the political agenda, under the dual heading of repression and prevention, by strengthening the rules on incompatibilities, transparency, control of financing and the raising of funds. i therefore support the need to adopt an action plan for 2014-2019 to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which provides for a roadmap based on our recommendations here, with adequate resources, in order to ensure a high level of security, with full respect for the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and respect for fundamental rights, including the right to data protection.
mr president, organized crime, corruption and money laundering are all legitimate concerns. its proliferation is inextricably linked to the prevailing socio-political context. the promiscuity between political and economic power, with the growing subordination of the former to the latter, is a fertile ground for the development of corrupt practices. theft of public property and resources, privatizations, public-private partnerships and other practices of taking what is common to the pockets of a few create the culture for the development of these practices. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and at the same time, the means of controlling and combating these phenomena, particularly at national level, are being weakened. this is an attack which must be reversed urgently and the negative effects of which no great and eloquent european plan can overcome on its own.
mr president, it is clear that every worker in a country, regardless of nationality, must be guaranteed all the social and labour rights of other workers. to think otherwise is to think in a purely inhuman and discriminatory way. today, migration movements within the european union are increasing because of unemployment, the lack of living conditions that families feel in many countries. the situation of desperation is becoming more and more common and more and more often workers in the european union are faced with exploitation and illegality. in march this year, seven portuguese construction workers in the outskirts of berlin were beaten for protesting against the conditions of the service company, which subcontracted the work, and where they worked in poor working conditions. these are the invisible and unacceptable abuses that are increasingly happening in the european union, to citizens of the european union.
in writing. living and working in the european area is one of the fundamental freedoms. this mobility allows european citizens to move around a space and respond to market needs where they may exist. however, this unique opportunity, in a group of 28 countries, is not taken up by the majority of european citizens. there are several reasons for the obstacle to mobility, including the challenges and difficulties of finding a job in the host member state and the lack of awareness of their rights, guarantees and protection. in order to facilitate the integration of citizens, member states should provide language courses and training in the host market. i would also like to stress the need to implement the qualifications directive in full, which faces numerous obstacles in some member states. on the other hand, citizens should be aware of their rights in terms of social systems. for a genuine internal market, we must not forget the importance of people in its construction and development. we have to understand what the citizens' grievances are, so that we can legislate in the best way.
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr romeva, who referred to small and large-scale fishing, is well aware that every year there are small boats, i would say very small boats, which, to escape from hunger, go into the rough waters of the atlantic. you also know, i'm sure, that every year there are shipwrecks and deaths at sea. what i am asking you is what do we have to say, what do you and your group have to say to these fishermen? we could, for example, financially support the construction of a shelter port or a landing site. you and your group won't let us. we could, for example, support a more powerful engine that would allow us to win... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the proposal for a regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which we are discussing here today, has been improved on an initial proposal from the european commission which was simply unacceptable. we contributed to the debate which made this possible and we appreciate the adoption of some of our proposals. three examples: the possibility, for the first time in the fund, of providing financial support for the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological defence, i.e. support for so-called biological stops. biological stops are an important instrument for the sustainable management of many fisheries. support for such stops, which is impossible under the current regulation, has long been a legitimate demand of the sector. another proposal is to increase eu co-financing for the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80%. the collection of these data by national scientific institutions, many of which are chronically underfunded, is of the utmost importance for the sustainable management of fisheries, based on scientific knowledge. another proposal concerns the positive discrimination of small-scale fishing in access to finance, increasing it by 30 percentage points compared to the co-financing rates stipulated for the other projects. but despite these positive aspects, which we hope will not be changed tomorrow, there are other aspects which we have considered negative, and some very negative ones, and which we hope can still be changed by tomorrow's vote. two examples, among others, are the restrictive definition of small-scale fishing, which runs counter to the consensus that the report on small-scale fishing, of which i was rapporteur, was able to produce and which advocated a much more realistic definition, and the prohibition of support for the construction of new local ports of landing and batching, which are known to be the shortcomings of such infrastructure, at least in some member states, which are felt especially by the smaller-scale fishing segments. the reality of fishing in the european union is characterised by immense variety, immense diversity in the different member states as regards the characteristics of the fleet, fishing gear, fisheries and fishery resources. an instrument such as the european maritime and fisheries fund cannot fail to take account of this immense diversity. failure to do so could mean the further decline of the sector over the past few decades and jeopardise the possibilities for sustainable development, whether in fisheries or other related activities.
mr president, commissioner, the european maritime and fisheries fund is a financial instrument for the implementation of the future common fisheries policy, which has already been established. as such, it should support the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the sector. in the context of a widespread economic and financial crisis, from which the fisheries sector is not escaping, measures are urgently needed to strengthen the viability and competitiveness of the sector and to improve the income of fishermen without jeopardising the sustainability of resources. in line with these principles, my 328 contributions were intended to provide support for boosting the sector and increasing its profitability through responsible, sustainable and properly exploited fishing, with the aim of making more money by fishing less. to this end, i reiterate that the emff must focus on rejuvenating the sector and on the training of professionals, improving safety, health and hygiene conditions at work, on board and in ports, allowing the renewal and modernisation of the fleet without increasing fishing capacity, supporting temporary cessations, encouraging the use of the most selective gear, supporting fish processing and processing, promoting data collection, among others. i congratulate the rapporteur on his successful effort to balance the three pillars of the cfp without succumbing to the demagogic temptation to remember the fish and forget the fisherman. finally, as regards the outermost regions, here is my protest against the integration and dilution of the posei regulation into the emff, which decisively compromises the existence of this programme after 2020 and has had the complacent silence of the... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, tomorrow we are voting on a document which is essential to reversing the trajectory of difficulties which threaten the sustainability of fisheries resources in many of our regions and the lives of fishermen and their businesses in many of our coastal communities. and this time, we can't fail. the emff must therefore direct the funds to enable the transition to this reform of the common fisheries policy, which we want to be ambitious but responsible, and whose guidelines we have approved here. the success of our efforts to open up new horizons for the sector will depend on the appropriate means of supporting fishermen in their transition to a more sustainable cfp, on funding scientists for studies and the provision of data to support the right decisions, or on support for the development of fishermen and fishery products. this is a sector which we must protect in particular in the most fragile activity of small-scale fishing and in the most specific regions such as the outermost regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the marine environment, in particular the protection of the marine environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to the protection of the marine environment. the report i am presenting here focuses mainly on fisheries issues, which were not covered in the commission's original proposal, and i am therefore referring in particular to sources of information and types of data, the promotion, collection and provision of data, ensuring effective compilation and articulation of data and how to benefit from the processing and interpretation of data. i therefore stressed the existence of a wide variety of public and private entities holding data on fishing activities in the european union, either collected and transmitted by the member states or obtained in the context of research projects, which also represent a huge volume of data generated by fishing activity monitoring systems, as well as data from electronic and paper fishing logs, on-board fisheries observer records and data obtained in fisheries resource monitoring campaigns. i think it would be very useful to map the spatial distribution of the fishing fleet, fishing effort, composition and catch volume, which would provide information on the areas subject to increased fishing intensity, species fished and catch volume in certain areas. mechanisms should also be put in place to facilitate the provision of fisheries data under conditions to be established and with differentiated levels of access. where data collection and management of fishery resources is financed by the european union and the member states, they shall be accessible for consultation. the same is true of fisheries data resulting from publicly funded or co-funded research projects. access to privately funded data will be subject to authorisation by the entities holding the information, and in any case, measures should be taken to encourage data sharing. the provision of fishing data must always ensure the safeguarding of data confidentiality and the protection of commercial interests, in particular by providing aggregated data, which may be grouped by area, fleet segment and gear, and by establishing a lag between the collection of the data and the provision of the mapping of fishing activity. the collection and provision of data requires coordination by the european union and an effort of coordination and cooperation between member states to define priority objectives, improve cost-effectiveness in the collection, processing and provision of data and develop synergies between member states. in order to enhance governance and functioning, it will be essential to grant a permanent status to the european marine observation and data network and that fisheries data may constitute an additional specific thematic group within emodnet. these proposals were voted unanimously in the committee on fisheries, which was only possible because of the excellent spirit of cooperation of all the shadow rapporteurs, which certainly stems from the strong motivation that they also share in relation to the importance of this subject. that's why i thank you all here publicly. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, allow me to present some loose notes. the first is to lament the lack of interest of our colleagues in a subject like this. it is true that it does not have much visibility, that it is not as popular as others that are taking place here in this house, but it is also true that it is with investments of this kind that we have in fact a capacity to build solid knowledge in a serious way, which will allow, in the future, an exploitation of the marine environment, learning the lessons of the past, a sustainable exploitation and, at the same time, not losing the opportunity to take advantage of the great potential that the sea has for our human communities. this is a job that has to be done but it is a long-term, long-winded job and perhaps that is why it does not interest most of my colleagues. it is a pity, because it is a very solid work that is being built here, firstly by the commission's proposal, which i once again welcome in this initiative, and then by the work that parliament has been doing in this area. secondly, it is precisely for this reason that i have been so interested in working on the documents which have been passed in this parliament on the knowledge of the marine environment, on the mapping of the marine environment, that is, everything that has to do with strengthening, consolidating scientific knowledge so that we can move forward, preserving resources, preserving the heritage we have to leave to future generations about our planet, but also exploiting this potential which is still largely untapped in the seas. thirdly, i should like to share here the broad objectives which the commission has set out in terms of reducing costs, promoting innovation and reducing uncertainty, which are really the main pillars of a project like this. and finally, if i may add, these proposals, which are consensus proposals from the committee on fisheries, will certainly also be put to a vote in plenary tomorrow. i think that, as they are presented, they should be taken into account by the european commission, in the recognition, first, that the fishing sector is an ancient human activity and still today one of the main ones taking place in the marine environment and that it can simultaneously, and i will finish very shortly, contribute and benefit from the knowledge of the marine environment, integrate into the blue economy and compete for the strategy 2020. and finally, i would ask the commission to accept that the success of such projects requires sound financing, guarantees of continuity and long-term predictability, and that this requires the coordination of financing mechanisms at community and national level. thank you very much for your attention.
mr president, i am addressing the president of the european commission, who has once again left before the end of the debate. i wanted to talk to you about democracy, about sovereignty, about the rule of law. these are concepts with which you will have some difficulty in relating, judging by your recent statements about the portuguese constitutional court. i also wanted to tell you about the mediocrity of those who always play the strong against the weak but who are always weak against the strong. you know what i'm talking about. as president of the european commission, mr barroso has decided to blackmail the portuguese constitutional court, saying that if it does not accept the measures imposed by the troika, then we have a problem. mr barroso, the portuguese constitution, which you have thus disrespected and offended, states in article 1 that portugal is a sovereign republic based on the dignity of the human person, on the will of the people and committed to building a free, just and united society. this determination is not only in the constitution, it is in the will of the portuguese people, who, just as they ran with you as prime minister, will run with the troika, with its henchmen, with its policy of disaster and destruction.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking all our colleagues, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs from other committees, for the spirit of cooperation with which we have worked. the european parliament will today take a decision on the economic policy recommendations addressed to its members, to the countries, drawn up by the commission and approved by the council. this year they are particularly important because the new european framework for economic governance, the so-called economic governance, has come into force and, under the european semester, these recommendations must be taken into account by the countries in drawing up their national budgets. the european commission also acquires additional powers over the control of this budgetary procedure. it is true that the crisis has highlighted the interconnectedness of european economies, particularly within the euro area. it has also shown how the same common policy can be beneficial for some countries and dramatically negative for others. since the enlargement to the single currency, there have been many examples. these realities do indeed warrant increased coordination and today the commission, with the support of this parliament, has acquired exceptional powers, particularly through the six-pack and the two-pack, to exercise this coordination in a muscular way. more power, however, requires more responsibility on at least two levels. at the first level, this greater coordination requires a corresponding increase in democratic control by this parliament for decisions taken at european level and by national parliaments for those at national level, both of which naturally involve the social partners. it is perhaps worth considering a codecision procedure at the beginning of the semester, at the time of the annual growth survey, the so-called ags, and at the present time, when the european cycle ends and a national one begins, with the country-specific recommendations. secondly, there is an urgent need to improve the quality of recommendations. the proposals of this parliament are clear and we hope that the commission will listen to them. amongst others, the following are to be highlighted: the budgetary consolidation must be adjusted to the specificities of each country. it must improve the competitiveness of that country, but it must also generate socially balanced growth and it must generate employment. however, the strong interdependencies recommend that surplus countries also contribute to economic recovery and i welcome the fact that the commission has for the first time tackled this issue. these countries should stimulate european internal demand through investment and their own demand. but the union's economy will only be able to recover if it fulfils the promises it has made so many times and never made, if it launches serious investment programmes, whether project bonds, the employment growth initiative and others, which have just emerged in the previous debate, if it is able to review its industrial policy and its external trade policy and make them compatible with the world of globalisation in which we live, and if it does not let down its commitment to innovation, education, science and the environment, especially in countries which are currently under severe restrictions. the growth and renewal of internal, social, regional and political cohesion must be at the centre of the agenda, alongside a much more serious fight against tax evasion and fraud. but in the meantime, the crisis has made a european social initiative to combat unemployment and support employment an absolute priority. parliament is still awaiting the results of the high-level group examining the feasibility of coordinated sovereign debt management, and i will finish, mr president, but i think i have six minutes and i can divide them between here and a final comment. parliament continued to await the results of the high-level group analysing the feasibility of coordinated sovereign debt management, the european commission's proposal on the new instrument for financing structural reforms, the so-called jrc, and the clarification of how national strategic investment can be reconciled with the rigidity of budgetary discipline, especially in the weakest countries. we are still in crisis, the imbalances within the union have grown unbearably. they are visible in growth rates, unemployment, cost of credit and poverty levels. the recovery is slow and, in the weaker countries, unsustainable, despite the enormous sacrifices they have made. in this context, asking citizens to delegate even more power at european level is only possible if links of mutual trust are re-established between citizens, among themselves and between them and the institutions, in particular the european institutions. they've been broken, and there are pressures that are currently hindering their recovery. i'll just name a few: the ad hoc troika system must now be urgently incorporated into european and democratic processes, and in particular, let me stress, comments such as those made by the commission on extremely sensitive subjects, because they are the only remnants of democracy at national level, as well as decisions of the constitutional courts, are not helpful. and finally, i would like to point out that mutual trust also involves a process which does not bring back the sanctions regime, in particular by cutting structural funds, as an external process which doubles the sanctions for the countries using funds and which is completely contrary, mr president, to the frankness and directness with which we negotiate a specific community sanctions regime in the context of the six pack. thank you very much, but trust, i think is the key word right now.
it would be unfair, mr president, if i did not acknowledge that there are positive proposals in this report. but it would be equally irresponsible to isolate it from european economic policy. the regulations adopted so far shape the view of the european institutions on the response to the crisis and, let us agree, that response has been a total failure and that is why, in the face of this disarray, the report draws ambiguous conclusions, says one thing and its opposite. we're held hostage to the talk of the town and the void. austerity is the real policy of this union, the balance sheet of policy is made by itself and we cannot ignore the reality of the figures. in portugal, debt increased by 33 percentage points in three years of austerity. is this what you call adjustment? the adjustment we had was 6 percentage points in three years of recession and there were 320,000 more unemployed in three years of recession. the adjustment needed is the adjustment of the economic policy which has produced these results. what is a disaster is not the troika's communication policy, as stated in the report, what is a disaster is the troika's policy, period. the commission says that competitiveness cannot be based solely on costs, but the only policy we know of in the so-called deficit countries is that of the wage massacre. the commission says that investment must be encouraged and smes protected, but it continues to inject rivers of money into the financial markets. incompetence, insensitivity and hypocrisy - this is the picture of the commission's and governments' response to the eurozone crisis. the situation of the peripheral economies is dramatic and shows that the time for lukewarmness and debate on the choices of the european union is over. the right is destroying europe. i will not compromise with rotten consensus over a firm stand on the failings of this policy. i will not be complicit in this right-wing strategy.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, many thanks for a very substantive and serious debate. parliament has a very important role in the context of the european semester and coordination of our economic policies. i am pleased to say that i will be back soon in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and also in the plenary to discuss this further, but i want to thank you for this debate today. i just want to make two or three comments on some of the key issues that members raised in the course of today’s debate. first, concerning the social dimension in the economic semester raised by the rapporteur ms ferreira, by ms cornelissen, ms goulard, ms matias and several others. you can rest assured that the commission is laying a lot of stress on the social dimension, and this will be reflected in the next alert mechanism report and in particular in the in-depth reviews of member states. beyond this, the commission is proposing to create a scoreboard to follow key employment and social development indicators. as mr gauzès said, the reinforced economic governance is having an effect and supporting consistent – not excessively hasty, but consistent – consolidation of public finances. we see that fiscal deficits are coming down and the credibility of the fiscal policy of member states is indeed improving. i also want to draw your attention to the fact that the number of member states outside the excessive deficit procedure (edp) was only three out of 27 two years ago. today, 12 are outside it. this is not great and we should not shout for victory, but it is undeniably progress and shows that we are making progress in ensuring the sustainability of public finances. to ms trautmann i would say that the commission has informed the member states how productive public investments that support sustainable growth can be accommodated within our fiscal rules. finally, to mr de backer, who said – like mr gauzès – that reinforced economic governance has had an effect on economic policies, i would say that i believe this has been proved, for instance, in the member state you know best, mr de backer. belgium’s fiscal policy is today clearly on a more sustainable footing than it was two years ago, when the country had been without a proper government for two years. i see too, in a very similar way, that it is about partnership. we need to support the eu member states as they undertake often very difficult reforms to modernise and reform our social market economies. i would like to return to the plenary debate at some point when more attention is being paid, and i would like to return to the econ committee.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, being aware of the many roads ahead of you, i will be very short. first, while we continue to call the semester a ‘semester’, in fact it has become a continuous exercise where the european and national phases overlap. certainly, for a whole european semester to be successful, i would like to stress again that we must put more emphasis on the implementation of policy advice, as many speakers have suggested during this debate. this in turn calls for a broader engagement of all the relevant actors in the whole process. thirdly, it also calls for a strong message at european level from all the institutions. to conclude, i am happy that the council’s and this parliament’s views are so close to one another on this particular issue, and i look forward to continuing this dialogue with you as we proceed towards the 2014 semester.
the european semester was presented as a mechanism for coordinating the economic and financial policies of the different member states. because coordination is not an end in itself, it is important to see what the content of the policies that you want to coordinate is. this is nothing more than a mechanism to tie each country to a path of civilizational regression, of attack on rights, of levelling down living and working conditions in europe. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. what are these recommendations? let us take the case of portugal: compliance with the deficit targets set by the troika, additional reductions in the wage bill, reduction in public consumption, so-called permanent measures of budgetary consolidation, privatisations, and so on. the recommendations that surplus countries invest and raise wages, in order to buy the product of the work of poorly paid workers in countries like portugal, destined for an increasingly subordinate and peripheral insertion in the process of the international division of labour, are presented as a great advance.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that drug precursors are legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs. until now, medicines have been excluded from the scope of the regulation. unfortunately, drugs containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, used to treat constipation, flu symptoms or allergies, are diverted to synthesise methamphetamines. the fact that the regulation does not cover medicinal products makes it impossible, in my view, for member states to confiscate or intercept easily shipments of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine which are suspected of being misused. i therefore believe that medicinal products should be included in the definition of scheduled substances and that a new category of substances should be created to allow for better control of scheduled substances. furthermore, i consider that the fact that the definition of scheduled substances stipulates precisely that the precursor must be easily extractable from the mixture in order to be considered a scheduled substance contributes to limiting significantly the number of medicinal products that could possibly be considered scheduled substances and, therefore, the impact on trade in medicinal products.
in writing. − this commission proposal for revision aims to fill a legal gap in regulation (ec) no 111/2005, which lays down rules for the control of trade in drug precursors between the european union and third countries. until now, medicinal products have been excluded from the scope of the regulation. unfortunately, drugs that contain ephedrine and pseudoephedrine are diverted to synthesize methamphetamines. the fact that the regulation does not cover medicines makes it impossible for member states to confiscate or intercept easily shipments of medicines containing ephedrine or psudoephedrine suspected of being misused. the committee therefore advocates the inclusion of medicinal products in the definition of scheduled substances and the creation of a new category of substances to allow better control of scheduled substances. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that this proposal is of the utmost importance in filling a legal gap in the regulation. drug precursors are legal substances used in the manufacture of medicines and drugs. drug precursors should be subject to export, import and transit controls, which vary in severity depending on the risk of diversion.
in writing. − the control of drug precursors is essential in the fight against narcotic drugs to prevent these chemicals, which have a wide range of legal uses, for example in the pharmaceutical, cosmetics and perfume sectors, from being diverted from legal distribution channels to the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs. a specific regulatory framework has been established at both international and eu level to control the legal marketing of drug precursors with the aim of preventing their diversion for illicit purposes, thus contributing to reducing the supply of illegal drugs. however, medicines containing ephedrine and pseudophedrin (used for colds or allergies) and which allow the illicit production of methamphetamine are not covered. i therefore support this initiative which aims to fill the existing gap in terms of eu control of these medicines when they are exported or in transit through the customs territory of the eu. methamphetamine markets are expanding in europe, with illegal methamphetamine laboratories seized for the first time in 2009 in several european countries, demonstrating the need and urgency for us to strengthen this control by allowing member states to confiscate or intercept shipments of this type of medicines suspected of being diverted for illicit purposes.
in writing. − drug precursors are legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs and are already subject to controls in the context of export, import and transit, more or less strict in terms of the risks of diversion. this proposal aims to fill a legal gap in council regulation (ec) no 111/2005 which excludes medicinal products from its scope. given that medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, used to treat constipation, flu symptoms or allergies, are often diverted to synthesise metha-amphetamines, there is a need to cover them in the current legislation.
in writing. - as regards the consolidation and updating of the mechanisms for the supervision and control of drug precursors between the european union and third countries, this report is an important contribution to the fight against the proliferation of drugs and narcotic products. the proposal seeks to fill the legal vacuum in the eu and in the control of its borders with regard to legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs, such as medicines containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, which are excluded from the list of controlled substances in the context of exports, imports and transit. these are examples of commonly used medicines for colds, flu and allergies, which can be manipulated and from which so-called drug precursors can be extracted. the creation of a new category for such products will facilitate and simplify controls on trafficking in these substances.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal to revise regulation 111/2005 aims to fill a legal gap in that regulation, which lays down rules for the control of trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries. the commission decided to include medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine in the scope of the regulation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'closed circuit' to cover the whole of the electrical network. the commission has established a specific scheme for these medicinal products which does not correspond to any of the schemes provided for in the different categories. these medicinal products are subject only to the obligation of prior notification of export. the rapporteur proposes that medicinal products be included in the definition of scheduled substances and that a new category of substances be created to allow for a better nuance of control applicable to scheduled substances. the rapporteur believes that the inclusion of a new medicinal product in the annex to the regulation should not be subject to the codecision procedure. this is because drug traffickers are more adaptable than the process of adopting the regulation in the codecision procedure. the position taken in the report is generally justified and correct.
in writing. − there is currently a serious gap in eu legislation regulating the trade in drug precursors. this regulation closes that gap. drug precursors are legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. drug precursors are subject to controls in the context of export, import and transit, varying in severity according to the risk of diversion. the precursors which are controlled and listed in the annex to the regulation are designated as scheduled substances. until now, medicines have been excluded from the scope of the regulation. unfortunately, drugs containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, used to treat constipation, flu symptoms or allergies, are diverted to synthesise methamphetamines. the fact that the regulation does not cover medicinal products makes it impossible for member states to easily seize or intercept shipments of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine suspected of being misused. the adoption of this regulation fills that gap. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − drug precursors are legal substances used in the manufacture of drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. drug precursors are subject to controls in the context of export, import and transit, varying in severity according to the risk of diversion. the precursors which are controlled and listed in the annex to the regulation are designated as scheduled substances. until now, medicines have been excluded from the scope of the regulation. unfortunately, drugs containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, used to treat constipation, flu symptoms or allergies, are diverted to synthesise methamphetamines. for this reason, the european commission has decided to include medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine within the scope of the regulation. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in september 2012, the european commission presented a proposal establishing rules for the control of trade in drug precursors between the european union and third countries, with the main objective of safeguarding public health by controlling the production, distribution and use of medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine to ensure their quality, safety and efficacy. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that medicinal products, like other substances, should also be controlled and included in the category of controlled substances. finally, i think it is important to ensure that medicines are marketed more safely, so as to ensure greater safety for consumers.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal to revise regulation 111/2005 aims to fill a legal gap in that regulation, which lays down rules for the control of trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries. the commission decided to include medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine in the scope of the regulation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'closed circuit' to cover the whole of the electrical network. the commission has established a specific scheme for these medicinal products which does not correspond to any of the schemes provided for in the different categories. these medicinal products are subject only to the obligation of prior notification of export. the rapporteur proposes that medicinal products be included in the definition of scheduled substances and that a new category of substances be created to allow for a better nuance of control applicable to scheduled substances. we agree.
in writing. − i am in favour of and broadly support the proposal, as only small quantities of drug precursors are needed for the production of illicit drugs and, given that these precursors are produced globally in large quantities, great care is needed to ensure that drug precursors are not diverted from legal trade in the european union. eu action in this area will therefore force traffickers to move their activities to other parts of the world, encouraging other regions of the world to follow the eu's example. in addition, i believe that the proposal allows for legal trade and use of acetic anhydride without imposing unnecessary administrative burdens on companies. at the same time, it allows the competent authorities to monitor trade flows more closely in order to detect and block illegal diversions.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals widely used for different industrial processes, production of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, etc., but can also be used for the production of illicit drugs. the current regulatory framework has defined a licensing and registration system to monitor the trade in drug precursors in the european union, imposing specific obligations on the companies involved and on public authorities. however, in recent years the european union has faced some international criticism for its allegedly lax control measures. in order to strengthen control, it is argued that registration and licensing requirements should be simplified and harmonised across the union in order to avoid market fragmentation and to prevent criminals from taking advantage of the 'weaker link' in the union's internal market. the creation of a european database, which would provide the necessary transparency and improve the monitoring of all drug precursors in the european union, is also advocated. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − this proposal is very important in preventing the diversion of domestic trade in acetic anhydride, the main drug precursor used in the manufacture of heroin, as well as in extending the registration requirement to include users of the substance.
in writing. - although drug precursors are legal substances, mostly produced by perfectly suitable entities, the fact is that their use in the manufacture of illicit drugs often leads to their diversion. in addition, since only small quantities of drug precursors are needed for the production of illicit drugs and since these precursors are produced globally in large quantities, close monitoring is needed to ensure that drug precursors are not diverted from legal trade in the eu. this is what this proposal does by making the rules on drug precursors more stringent.
in writing. − the european union must ensure an effective legal framework to combat drug trafficking. in this context, products that constitute so-called drug precursors merit particular attention and concern, reinforced by the fact that they are chemicals that, in addition to being used for the production of illicit drugs, are widely used for different industrial processes, such as the production of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes and detergents. a legal framework is therefore needed to reconcile the interests, objectives and competitiveness of european industrial activity with the need to improve the response capacity of the institutions in the control and surveillance of the traffic in drug precursors in the eu, as is the case in particular with acetic anhydride, which is legally used for the production of plastics, textiles, dyes, photochemical agents, perfumes, explosives and aspirin, but also used illicitly for the production of amphetamines, cocaine and especially heroin, with a strong impact on mortality associated with drug use in the eu.
in writing. − the european union has been criticised internationally for the lack of control measures on drug precursors or the permissive nature of legislation in some member states. criticism has focused mainly on acetic anhydride, a substance that is legally used to produce plastics, textiles, dyes, photochemicals, perfumes, explosives and aspirin, but can also be used illegally to produce heroin, cocaine and amphetamines. this is the main drug precursor for the production of heroin (which, in turn, accounts for the majority of consumption, with huge associated mortality rates). we agree on the need to strengthen controls on operations which could lead to the illegal use of substances, by combating the diversion of chemicals from the legal trade chain to the illicit production of drugs. this can be achieved through more transparent registration and more restrictive licensing requirements. it would be important to take some steps to strengthen the legislation in each country.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals that are widely used for different industrial processes (production of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes or detergents) but which can also be used to produce illicit drugs. drug precursors are rarely produced for criminal purposes, which aim to use them in the production of illicit drugs, as the manufacture of drug precursors requires substantial industrial infrastructure. instead, criminals often try to divert the legal trade in drug precursors, either by stealing or by buying. this regulation proposes to create a new eu-wide database of information on seizures of drug precursors in the eu, listing all licensed or registered operators and end-users of drug precursors in the eu. i believe that this new regulation is a significant improvement on the previous one and will better prevent the use of drug precursors for illicit purposes.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals that are widely used for different industrial processes (production of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes or detergents) but which can also be used to produce illicit drugs. drug precursors are rarely produced by criminals who intend to use them in the production of illicit drugs, as the manufacture of drug precursors requires substantial industrial infrastructure. instead, criminals try to divert the legal trade in drug precursors, either by stealing or by buying. in the report annexed, the commission proposes the creation of a new eu-wide database of information on seizures of drug precursors in the eu, with a list of all licensed or registered operators and end-users of drug precursors in the eu. the aim is to combat this problem more effectively and the proposal contains valuable improvements over the current situation. the introduction of delegated acts will provide the commission with the flexibility to react quickly to changing circumstances as well as to deal with resourceful drug traffickers, while ensuring adequate parliamentary oversight of any changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − in recent years, the eu has been criticised internationally for the lack of control measures on drug precursors or the permissive nature of legislation in some member states. criticism has focused mainly on acetic anhydride, a substance that is legally used to produce plastics, textiles, dyes, photochemicals, perfumes, explosives and aspirin, but can also be used illegally to produce heroin, cocaine and amphetamines. this is the main precursor drug for heroin production. the need to strengthen controls on operations that could lead to the illicit use of these substances is clear, by combating the diversion of chemicals from the legal trade chain to the illicit production of drugs. the creation of an eu-wide database for this purpose is not a sine qua non condition for achieving this objective. in addition to the risks associated with the proliferation of databases whose proportionality, purpose and use raise serious suspicions of possible violations of the freedoms and guarantees of citizens - as the existence of other databases and their access has demonstrated - this objective can be more easily achieved by strengthening the legislation of each country.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, understanding that e-justice has an important role to play in enhancing mutual trust and understanding and thus supporting the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, a major principle of the legal system of the european union. in this connection, i would point out that e-justice systems, by their very nature, tend to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. i believe that they are in the interest of all the stakeholders in the legal system and that, for reasons of cost-effectiveness, projects should remain voluntary. at the same time, i welcome the development of e-justice tools to facilitate the use of certain european union instruments, such as the european order for payment procedure and the european small claims procedure, as well as information systems in the field of justice and home affairs, in particular the european criminal records information system (ecris) and the schengen information system (sis ii).
in writing. − i agree with this action plan, which, following the action plan covering the period 2009-2013, will contribute to a legal system that is more accessible to citizens and improve mutual understanding between practitioners and administrations by providing electronic information and cooperation tools.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has made it possible to make progress towards the creation of a common european area of justice, in which police and judicial authorities can trust and count on each other. this will help to increase citizens' confidence in the fairness of the proceedings, in particular in the protection of their rights if they are before a court in another member state or are victims of a crime. the use of information and communication technologies in this area, known as e-justice, has helped to improve citizens' access to justice, facilitate procedures in the european sphere, reduce their costs, make dispute resolution more effective and make criminal acts more punishable. the most visible part of european e-justice is the european e-justice portal, which has been operating since 2010 as a one-stop shop in the area of justice. it allows easier access to information on different justice systems and justice in general in the eu. we need to carefully assess the implementation of the current action plan, which is coming to an end, and see what improvements should be introduced in the next action plan (2014-2018), as some 73% of citizens believe that much remains to be done to facilitate their access to justice in other member states.
in writing. - an old legal aphorism reminds everyone that ignorance of the law is no good. despite this principled position, which emphasises the impossibility of using ignorance of the law as a pretext, the truth is that ignorance of the law harms many citizens in the european union (and is illegitimately exploited by others) and cannot always be so clearly dismissed when assessing the goodness of their concrete conduct. any measures aimed at making the legal systems of the european union more visible and, in particular, initiatives which rely on electronic support for their dissemination, should be welcomed. this knowledge will make legal relations more secure and enable citizens to know more fully and in a direct and accessible way their rights and duties and the best ways of interacting with the administrations and judicial systems of the member states. the electronic justice is another step in that direction.
in writing. − knowledge of eu civil justice instruments and crossborder procedures is relatively limited. and it is precisely to facilitate access to civil justice in other member states that a large majority of citizens (73%) consider additional measures at european union level to be necessary. electronic justice systems are a means of enabling greater access to legal and judicial information and to judicial and administrative procedures, both by citizens and professionals. they aim to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. it is therefore necessary for member states and the commission to step up their work on electronic cooperation in the field of justice.
in writing. − the use of electronic media is an inevitability of our times. in the field of justice, e-justice is a means of enabling greater and easier access to legal and judicial information and to judicial and administrative procedures, both for citizens and for professionals. there are, however, confidentiality requirements which advise great caution in this field. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. electronic justice systems, by their very nature, tend to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative proceedings, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. but despite these cost reductions, speed and alleged productivity gains, the necessary security mechanisms for computer systems are far from being in place. and that is not what the resolution says. portugal is a good example of a country where several problems and shortcomings have been identified in the security and confidentiality of data and processes. we did not support this resolution.
in writing. − the first multiannual action plan on european e-justice covered the period 2009-2013 and sought to make justice and the legal system more accessible to citizens and to improve mutual understanding between practitioners and administrations by providing electronic information and cooperation tools. we now need to define the e-justice action plan for the period 2014-2018. e-justice has an important role to play in enhancing mutual trust and understanding and thus supporting the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, a major principle of the eu legal system. e-justice is very important for everyone's access to justice at lower cost and with greater efficiency. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the e-justice action plan 2014-2018 because i agree with its assumptions, namely that e-justice is a means of enabling greater access to legal and legal information, and to judicial and administrative procedures, by both citizens and professionals, and that it has an important role to play in enhancing mutual trust and understanding and thus supporting the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, a fundamental principle of the eu legal system. the european parliament stresses in this regard that the eu justice programme for the period 2014-2020 should provide for the funding of successful european and national e-justice projects. these projects must have real european added value for citizens.
in writing. − the first multiannual action plan on european e-justice (2009-2013) sought to make justice and the legal system more accessible to citizens and to improve mutual understanding between practitioners and administrations by providing electronic information and cooperation tools. i agree with the resolution presented because i believe that e-justice must really represent a strengthening of citizens' trust, a strengthening of the use of electronic applications and the electronic provision of documents. i also welcome the fact that the hearing of witnesses and other persons involved in judicial proceedings is facilitated by the use of videoconferencing and the interconnection of judicial and administrative records, thus reducing the cost of judicial or para-judicial proceedings.
in writing. − whereas e-justice is a means of enabling greater access to legal and judicial information and to judicial and administrative procedures, both for citizens and for professionals; while it is true that e-justice systems by their very nature tend to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative proceedings, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents, and that the use of electronic means is an inevitability of our times, we cannot fail to stress that in the field of justice there are confidentiality requirements which advise great caution in this area, especially where matters of criminal and/or internal affairs are concerned. in portugal, several problems and shortcomings have been identified in the security and confidentiality of data and processes. in the name of cost reduction, speed and alleged efficiency gains, we cannot allow the necessary security mechanisms for computer systems to be left unattended.
mr president, madam high representative, mr brok's report is important, but it cannot be as positive as the european citizens deserve. the european union remains closed in on itself in the face of a political, economic and financial crisis which has blinded us to the teutonic changes in world geostrategy. we have remained almost fearless and very ineffective in the face of the convulsions and upheavals that are felt in our neighborhood and beyond. i hope the council will listen to the debate here today on cynical inaction in the face of the recent tragedy in lampedusa. (the president cut off the speaker) the european union has not been able to escape the pernicious scheme of each for itself, in which several member states serve and use the union for their own priorities, undermining the development of a robust european foreign policy. there is a lack of leadership to confront the governments of the union with what we are losing and what we can gain from a foreign policy based on the strategic interests we share and which acts, in a coordinated and effective manner, against the dangers and risks to our security and to the union's influence in the world. let's look at our neighborhood: europe is already feeling the consequences of the disaster in syria, europe is already feeling the dangers that emanate from an unstable libya and that becomes a real threat to the libyan people first of all, but also to europe and to stability in the region and beyond. these are two cases where the autistic action of some member states reigns supreme, sometimes to the detriment of european values and the interests of peace and democracy at global and regional level. in libya, we could and should have done more to stabilise the country, to encourage democratic transition and to respond to the calls of the libyan people and the libyan authorities, but on the contrary we have left everything in the hands of others, namely what libya needs most and which will cost us dearly if we delay: the reform of the security sector, which must go hand in hand with the demobilization and disarmament and reintegration of the revolutionary militias. this one won't happen without the first one. and what we see today is, therefore, a libya of weak governance, almost none at all, more insecure, more unstable with gaddafi's arsenals in the hands of terrorist networks that operate, for example, also throughout the region, and in syria even, of organized crime, including human traffickers who manufacture tragedies like lampedusa. syria is the mirror of the contradictions of european foreign policy. we have let capitals drive the process, reducing the union to a humanitarian role which, while very important, will not help to end the war. the union must invest in the political and diplomatic solution to the syrian crisis, it must do much more to mediate and bring together the opposition to the regime of bashar al-assad and bring that opposition to the table in geneva. it must also come to geneva with one voice, because the challenges affect us all in europe, the challenges in syria. and syria cannot be just a french or english concern, it is also vital that we seek to bring tehran to the geneva table for the resolution of the war in syria. the very involvement of iran and hezbollah in the conflict means that tehran must be at the table and i hope that the high representative, with the diplomatic weight she has gained in the negotiations on the nuclear programme, which obviously has to be a priority under the npt, with the obligations and rights provided for in the npt, can also involve the leadership of the islamic republic of iran in the resolution of the syrian conflict. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, living well within the limits of our planet is the motto that gives the title to the european union's 2020 environmental action programme. if we consider that living well applies not to a privileged few but to the general population, the question arises as to whether it is possible within the framework of the dominant economic and social system on a planetary scale. whether it will be possible to shape a harmonious and sustainable relationship between nature and society within the framework of a system that, in marx's words, either grows and accumulates or dies. a system which, for that very reason, is constantly confronted with the limits of a land which, being generous, is finite. in the face of this, the solution cannot be to paint capitalism green. it cannot be the commodification of nature and its resources or so-called services, the promotion of the private appropriation of what is and must be for everyone: from drinking water to clean air, from fertile soil to biodiversity, from hydrothermal springs to mineral deposits. it is also important to remember that the environment does not exist separately from everything else. we need, of course, an action programme on the environment, a programme which is not just a mere spin off of a fraudulent, albeit green, neoliberal booklet. but we also need, i would say above all, to integrate environmental objectives into a very broad set of sectoral policies, including agriculture, fisheries, industry, energy, trade and others. the conclusion here is that profound changes are needed in the european union's current policies in all these areas. it is that with these policies, living well within the limits of our planet will be nothing more than a slogan emptied of substantive content and every day contradicted by political practice. thank you very much.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by greeting my colleague, mr gaston franco, and congratulating him on his excellent work, on his excellent report. over the last 40 years, a wide range of environmental legislation has been introduced in the european union, which has contributed to the most comprehensive and modern set of legislation in the world. in addition to legislation, there have been european union action programmes on the environment since the early 1970s. today we are aware that the proposed environmental objectives will only be achieved if they are integrated into all the union's policies and activities. the european union has made great progress in the environmental field, but many problems remain. resource use remains largely unsustainable and inefficient, waste is not managed properly, land degradation remains unchecked and there is unsustainable land use that is consuming fertile soils with impacts on food security and the achievement of biodiversity targets. water quality and air pollution levels are still problematic and in many parts of europe, eu citizens continue to be exposed to dangerous substances potentially endangering their health and wellbeing. the european union aims to combat or minimise these problems by implementing this programme, which will run until 2020. and it is expected that this programme will have sufficient financial resources and for that the political will of the european union, but above all of the council, is needed to have these amounts so that the necessary policies can be implemented. the european union can only win by aiming to become an inclusive, green economy, which will ensure sustainable growth and development, the protection of the health and well-being of the citizens of the european union and a secure and supportive future for future generations.
for the gue/ngl group i also want to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mr president, and i agree with the general outline of the report she is putting before us and also with the concerns raised by mr chichester. i understand that the regulation of electronic communications and telecommunications is probably one of the sectors that has the most impact on the lives of citizens and the commission's role here is to try to close the gaps, to simplify, but the commission should propose and not impose. the european commission cannot replace national regulators. i agree with the concerns and issues raised regarding net neutrality, the universal service obligation, including access to the internet at a fair price, and respect for users' privacy. we cannot just be shocked when we see mrs merkel on the news calling mr obama to find out whether or not his phone has been tapped. the question of privacy is a fundamental right of all european citizens and this is indeed one of the main issues because mistrust, and i end with this, mr president, mistrust is one of the main barriers to the real implementation of a digital agenda and this is as true for citizens as it is for companies and, if we are talking about jobs, we have to take this into account.
it is not new to anyone that vineyards and wine are one of the most impressive features of european agriculture. not only has it shaped the landscape of many parts of europe, but it has also left its mark on our culture for centuries. it is therefore never too late to remember that producing wine or drinking wine is not a mere economic activity or a simple gastronomic option. i am proud to come from a country which is home to the oldest demarcated area in the world, whose boundaries were set in 1756 and which is now classified as a world heritage site. over the centuries, man has carved mountains in cyclonic work comparable only to that of the pyramid builders. the sector underwent a major reform in 2008 and we are now completing the reform of the cap for the period 2014-2020, where some decisions with an impact on the sector have just been taken, notably on the planting rights regime. a year ago the commission released a useful evaluation study on the last five years, which gave us an overall perception of the impact of the main measures. the results vary widely from region to region, and the effects of the economic crisis on the internal market and on third countries also show contradictory trends. given the importance of the sector, in times of uncertainty, it is necessary to be always vigilant and to anticipate an appropriate strategy to be cautious of the future. i would therefore ask the commission to inform us of the initiatives it intends to take in this area in the near future, in addition, of course, to those resulting from the 2013 reform, and in particular on the issue of promotion. the question of promotion in the internal market is a crucial one at the moment. thank you very much.
mr president, we have always said that the liberalization of plantations involves enormous dangers, it jeopardizes the economic balance of farms and agricultural regions, but it also jeopardizes the ecological balance of wines and landscapes. we have always advocated the maintenance of vine planting rights and the establishment of special arrangements for regions where wine-growing is the dominant activity. what is on the table today is a policy which will create even more uncontrolled production through full liberalisation of the wine sector. the aim of creating new segments, which will allow the promotion of blended wines originating in different countries, will create enormous problems for the production of wines with geographical indication. we are totally against deregulation of the sector, and it is essential to maintain the rights to plant vines - a guarantee of the continuity of wines with geographical indications. the question today is not whether there is a reform of the sector, and not just that, but whether the content of the reform will protect the sector, and in particular small producers.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is the world's largest producer, consumer, exporter and importer of wine. a dominant position that matters to maintain. the last two reforms, in 2008 and 2013, provided the sector with the conditions and tools it believes are necessary to successfully face the future. this means gaining a larger market share, investing in knowledge with a view to restructuring and modernising vineyards and wineries, constantly improving their quality and having a promotion policy suited to their needs. the 2008 reform has not yet been evaluated and the 2013 reform has not yet entered into force, so that sufficient time is now required for the sector to adapt to the latest changes, implement them and then allow them to be evaluated without being subject to further revisions in the meantime. legislative stability is essential for the sector to plan its medium-term future, without which it cannot remain competitive. this is the greatest challenge facing the community, and it is therefore important to redirect funding to proactive measures to strengthen competitiveness, to invest in the promotion of wines produced in the various member states. in this context, there are a few aspects which i think deserve consideration. one is the possibility that the production of varietal wines may jeopardise the important link between wine production and the respective pgi pdos, which needs to be duly considered. in this connection, i would stress the urgency of defending european pdos and pgi subject to increasing competition from wines from other countries. there are situations in which it is particularly important to revive certified productions which, due to extreme circumstances, have been declining but have competitive potential. lourinhã spirits in portugal, which currently lack enough vine to establish themselves on the market, are an example. another important aspect is the possibility of additional support for wine producers in disadvantaged regions such as islands. i would like to say that, in addition to the negative economic, social and environmental impacts, traditional vine-growing also has cultural and even tourist value. finally, i would like to give the example of the pico vineyard in the azores, which has been designated a unesco world heritage site and which really needs support for the restoration of areas suitable for growing this vine.
in writing. now that the cap has been changed in the last reform of the cmo in 2008, with the creation of a system of authorisation for vine planting and the possibility of information and promotion campaigns, it is necessary to give wine operators time to adapt to all these changes. it seems that a new reform of the sector is in preparation, which includes the creation of new categories of wine. changes in wine quality policy, oenological practices or volume control measures may put wines with a geographical indication at risk. but we should not question this wine-production model which characterises the sector, since it is growing and represents a considerable part of the wine production of the ors, almost 20% in the azores. it is therefore necessary to know whether you are planning a further reform of the sector, what your objectives for this sector are in the coming years and how the potential of the internal market can be exploited, particularly in wine tourism, as this can be part of the solution to attract investment to the most disadvantaged regions.
in writing. − traditionally, the commission and parliament on the one hand and the council on the other have different views on what they think the budget of the european union should be. the former tend to advocate greater resources while the latter, often conditioned by public opinion, tends to prefer their limitation or even their reduction. in view of the budgetary and financial constraints which are well known in the european union, it is natural that its budget cannot be subject to unreasonable increases or incur unacceptable expenditure. however, the union cannot be prevented from exercising its powers and from exercising them effectively. i believe that there has been a serious effort to contain this and that this should be met by a fair and balanced allocation of funds, appropriate and proportionate to the challenges facing a union of 28 today. i am not sure that the cuts proposed by the council take this into account.
in writing. − the amendments now introduced by the majority to the 2014 budget proposal did not go much further than re-establishing the amounts initially proposed by the european commission. the (bad) political priorities are confirmed. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the majority of parliament said and said, demagogically, that this was a priority. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. the proposal defined as a central objective the specific financing of job creation with rights for young people and that these funds could not under any circumstances finance public or private enterprises, or even public services, in the establishment of precarious contracts, unpaid internships and the replacement of workers with permanent ties by others with precarious ties or by professional internships. the majority voted against. in rhetoric they advocate the fight against youth unemployment but in practice they reject the need to mobilise more funds to alleviate the real social scourge that is youth unemployment today.
in writing. - we have put forward a proposal to increase the budget lines for economic and social cohesion - at least to double them from the current levels. contributions to this increase should result from the increase in the co-financing of member states with higher gni and higher per capita income. the majority rejected this proposal. we believe that the increase in the budget should promote the strengthening and modernisation of the productive systems of the member states, particularly those facing the greatest economic difficulties, such as our own, by providing special support for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, the cooperative sector and local authority programmes. and that these programmes should combat unemployment and create jobs with rights, ensuring the maintenance of existing jobs, promoting education and training, strengthening public services and essential infrastructure for countries in general. the majority voted against. we also support the urgency of laying the foundations for a comprehensive eu programme to support the economies of the countries with the most severe economic difficulties. again, the majority voted against. actions speak louder than words.
in writing. − i approve this report, although we need to know whether the commission has calculated the impact of the agreed inclusion of specific resources in the mff agreement, the proposed increase in co-financing rates for those member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability and the impact of the one-year extension of the automatic non-payment period for some member states. in my view, these elements are essential for the future of the framework. i also regret that the commission has taken as a basis for pre-financing the level agreed by the european council in february 2013, a matter which is subject to the ongoing institutional sectoral negotiations, where the european parliament has a right of co-decision, and thus runs the risk of undermining the outcome of those negotiations. i would like to conclude by recalling that prefinancing is essential because the member states and regions need sufficient funding at the beginning of the period to invest in projects which will contribute to the efforts to overcome the current economic and financial crisis. in this connection, i would reiterate the position of the committee on regional development to opt for the same pre-financing rates as in the current period.
in writing. − i welcome the european union's 2014 budget adopted today, which reverses the cuts made by the council in areas i consider vital to economic recovery, such as the digital agenda, innovation, entrepreneurship and youth employment. the european parliament proposes a budget of €142.6 billion in commitments and €136.1 billion in payments for 2014. the amounts proposed by the eu council of ministers are €141.8 billion in commitments and €134.8 billion in payments (a reduction of €240 million and €1.06 billion respectively compared to the draft budget presented by the european commission for 2014). we now have 21 days of conciliation to negotiate a settlement with the council.
in writing. − the 2014 budget should seek to respond to the challenges facing the european union at this worrying stage in which it is facing a serious economic and financial crisis that threatens to widen the gap between the centre and the peripheries. the weak results of the lisbon strategy are well known and how, despite the proclamations, the union has not become a thriving knowledge-based economy. the main priorities today are surely growth and jobs, without which nothing will be possible. it is important not to overlook the problem of the reversal of the demographic pyramid which threatens to undermine our social systems and the budgetary capacity of the member states and the union itself. a budget for europe must address these issues and seek to use the money that is the citizens' money in a rigorous and reasonable way. all the european institutions must act constructively and in close cooperation to ensure that this is the case. i regret that the council has not shown greater understanding of the concrete operational needs of the european union and is seeking to cut the community budget excessively.
in writing. − the 2014 budget is the first of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014/2020 and should therefore be in line with its orientation. this budget aims at sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, as well as the eu's role in the world. i insist on supporting policies that contribute to the fight against youth unemployment, research, development and innovation, the digital agenda, competitiveness, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i regret the council's decision to introduce horizontal cuts in the draft budget with a view to artificially reducing the level of union resources for 2014 by a total amount of eur 240 million (-0.2%) in commitment appropriations and eur 1 061 million (-0.8%) in payment appropriations compared to the draft budget, which therefore translates into a significant decrease compared to the 2013 budget (including amending budgets nos 1 to 5), both in commitments (-6%) and in payments (-6.6%). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - the crisis has proved those who, like us, have said that solidarity is a concept alien to the eu. the eu budget process is a good example of this. we have put forward a proposal to increase the budget lines for economic and social cohesion - at least to double them from the present figures. contributions to this increase should result from the increase in the co-financing of member states with higher gni and higher per capita income. the majority rejected this proposal. we believe that the increase in the budget should promote the strengthening and modernisation of the productive systems of the member states, particularly those facing the greatest economic difficulties, such as our own, by providing special support for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, the cooperative sector and local authority programmes. and that these programmes should combat unemployment and create jobs with rights, ensuring the maintenance of existing jobs, promoting education and training, strengthening public services and essential infrastructure for countries in general. the majority voted against. we also support the urgency of laying the foundations for a comprehensive eu programme to support the economies of the countries with the most severe economic difficulties. again, the majority voted against.
in writing. - with the adoption of this budget, we are strengthening support for areas such as employment, innovation and humanitarian aid for refugees. i hope that these reinforcements will now be ratified by the council in the negotiations that will follow. the budget for 2014 is €142.6 billion in commitments and €136.1 billion in payments, which means a reduction of €8.1 billion in commitments and €4.3 billion in payments compared to this year's budget. although there are differences with the commission's proposal, i believe that this budget is balanced and will be accepted by the council. parliament's commitment to areas vital to economic recovery, such as the digital agenda, innovation, entrepreneurship and youth employment, is important. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, in particular the creation of new specific budget lines for technical assistance relating to the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as i agree with the call to the commission and the member states to make every effort to ensure that the eu budget is spent efficiently and that everything financed by it has a clear european added value, in particular that member states should share tasks where possible and strengthen mutual cooperation.
in writing. − the european union has identified sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment as priorities for the 2014 budget, as well as the eu's role in the world. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to ensure policies that help to solve youth unemployment, promote research, development and innovation, small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) and entrepreneurship. however, i regret that the council has not taken into account the agreement on the mff as regards the early availability of funds for the erasmus+, cosme and horizon 2020 programmes and has also made cuts in both commitment and payment appropriations in all categories. i would like to stress the importance of avoiding delays in the implementation of the 2014 budget and ensuring the successful conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. − the amendments now introduced by the majority to the 2014 budget proposal did not go much further than re-establishing the amounts initially proposed by the european commission. the (bad) political priorities are confirmed. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the majority of parliament said and said, demagogically, that this was a priority. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. the proposal defined as a central objective the specific financing of job creation with rights for young people and that these funds could not under any circumstances finance public or private enterprises, or even public services, in the establishment of precarious contracts, unpaid internships and the replacement of workers with permanent ties by others with precarious ties or by professional internships. the majority voted against. in rhetoric they advocate the fight against youth unemployment but in practice they reject the need to mobilise more funds to alleviate the real social scourge that is youth unemployment today.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account the green paper on marine knowledge 2020 from seabed mapping to oceanographic forecasting, integrated in the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy. this initiative serves the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for the sea by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in order to pursue this objective, it is intended to develop a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european seabed by 2020. without underestimating the importance of a holistic view of the oceans, but since it is impossible to cover all the themes of the green paper due to its comprehensiveness and multidisciplinarity, this report opts to analyse how the fisheries sector can be integrated into this new context, how it can contribute to and how it can benefit from marine knowledge 2020.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted today on the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) for 2014-2020 with a budget of eur 6.5 billion. this fund will help fishermen to comply with the rules of the new common fisheries policy. the emff should finance measures to improve safety and working conditions, vocational training, innovation, data collection, port infrastructure and support the development of coastal and small-scale fisheries. the fund also provides incentives for young fishermen.
in writing. − just as the sea surface routes were discovered, traced and mapped many centuries ago, so today there is a need to make a similar effort with regard to the marine environment and to improve and enrich existing mapping. unlike those times when navigators were governed primarily by national loyalties and promoted policies of secrecy, the time we live in today advises not just information sharing but deep partnership work among key actors and stakeholders. the sustainability of the fisheries sector will benefit greatly from this knowledge-integrating stimulus. their participation in this process is essential if scattered data are to be effectively collected and potential threats to the marine environment and the fishing industry itself are to be identified. i salute colleague maria do céu, for the quality of her report.
in writing. - this report follows a green paper from the european commission on the subject of marine knowledge. we disagree with the objectives that inspire many of these documents promoting the so-called blue economy. however, this report does raise relevant questions, concerns and recommendations, which we generally agree with. the general concern is the need to improve knowledge of the marine environment. the rapporteur focuses mainly on fisheries, addressing issues such as the type of data and sources, the role of international organisations and the sector, including small-scale fisheries, the availability of data, the financing of the collection of data, the role of national authorities and international cooperation. in general, the rapporteur's approach seems to us to be correct and relevant, and sufficiently comprehensive. the report is a useful contribution to the discussion of a subject which has not yet been discussed and to the implementation of measures to overcome the obvious gaps that exist today. we voted in favour.
in writing. − this report advocates that the availability of fisheries data to be integrated into a multi-resolution digital map of the seabed by 2020 should be duly encouraged and supported by the eu. the creation of a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european marine environment by 2020 aims to make ocean information available to a multitude of stakeholders from public authorities, industry, education, research and civil society. marine knowledge is key to the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy, which represents the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, by linking knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this report focuses on the relevance and usefulness of the integration, mapping and provision of data on fishing activity under the marine knowledge 2020 initiative. to this end, the document takes into account the importance of the various sources of information and types of data, as well as the issues of promoting the collection and availability of data, ensuring effective compilation and articulation of data and benefiting from the processing and interpretation of data. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report follows a green paper from the european commission on the subject of marine knowledge. we disagree with the objectives that inspire many of these documents promoting the so-called blue economy. however, this report does raise relevant questions, concerns and recommendations, which we generally agree with. in general, the rapporteur's approach seems to us to be correct and relevant, and sufficiently comprehensive. the report is a useful contribution to the discussion of a subject which has not yet been discussed and to the implementation of measures to overcome the obvious gaps that exist today. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the european union currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context where the number of retaliatory measures is increasing, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to enforce the european union's trade rights, to consolidate the credibility of the european union and ultimately to convince our trading partners to respect the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements. this proposal is also an integral part of the strategy of opening up new markets for the european union and aligns the decision-making procedures with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal to create legislation to deal systematically with cases of non-compliance with international trade rules. these measures are essential for the smooth functioning of the economy and for trade agreements between the eu and third countries.
in writing. − the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. i therefore agree with the european commission's objectives as described in recital 2 of the proposal; it is essential that the union has adequate tools to ensure the effective exercise of the union's rights under international trade agreements in order to safeguard its economic interests. (...) the union should be able to react quickly and flexibly in the context of the procedures and deadlines laid down by the international trade agreements it has concluded. the union should therefore adopt legislation defining the framework for the exercise of union rights in certain specific situations.
in writing. − the establishment of a horizontal legislative framework to regulate the european union's trade relations with third countries is seen as a pressing need, capable of ensuring greater security, credibility and fairness. with this proposal for a regulation, which this report completes, improves and reinforces the breadth of the document presented by the commission, including important areas in international trade relations, such as services, the european union will now have the means to defend itself quickly against countries and partners that do not comply with their obligations. the creation of this legislative framework, by providing the commission with effective and timely intervention in adverse situations and breaches of agreements, including in the context of the world trade organisation, is intended to ensure conditions for enforcing the trade rights of the european union and its member states, to consolidate the external credibility of the eu and to increase pressure on trading partners to comply with the rules and agreements concluded.
in writing. − this proposal lays down rules and procedures to ensure the effective exercise of the eu's rights to suspend and withdraw concessions or other obligations in international trade agreements. in the warmongering rhetoric of the free trade heralds, it is a question of establishing measures of defensive retaliation. this proposal covers four types of situation: retaliatory measures following the adjudication of trade disputes under the wto; retaliatory measures following the adjudication of trade disputes under other international agreements; rebalancing measures where a third country adopts a safeguard without adequate rebalancing measures; and rebalancing measures where a third country modifies its tariff concessions. the rapporteur warns that the idea is not to use the mechanism now created. its mere existence, he says, will generate a 'deterrent effect' that will make its use unnecessary. it is the european union which wants to impose its will and safeguard its interests by encouraging third countries to respect the rules of international trade (there is no need for an oxymoron, since there are no rules except the one simple rule that there can be no rules, i.e. the law of the strongest). otherwise, defensive retaliatory measures are taken.
in writing. − there is currently no horizontal legislative framework in the eu to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context of increasing retaliation, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to enforce the eu's trade rights, to build the eu's credibility and ultimately to convince our trading partners to play by the rules of the game as laid down in trade agreements. this proposal is also an integral part of the strategy of opening up new markets for the eu and aligns the decision-making procedures with the lisbon treaty. this regulation can in itself constitute a credible threat which is hoped to deter our trading partners from breaking the rules of the game.
in writing. − the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. in a global context of increasing retaliation, the proposed instrument is legitimately designed to enforce the eu's trade rights, to build the eu's credibility and ultimately to convince our trading partners to play by the rules of the game as laid down in trade agreements. this proposal is also an integral part of the strategy of opening up new markets for the eu and aligns the decision-making procedures with the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour of this proposal, which is only flawed by its lack of ambition. however, the existence of the regulation itself is a credible instrument which is hoped to serve as a deterrent to our trading partners from disregarding the union's regulatory framework.
in writing. − in an era of continuing globalisation, it is essential for the european union to have a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the world trade organisation and other international trade agreements. this legislative safeguard not only ensures that the eu's trade rights are respected, but also enhances its credibility by showing future trading partners what the rules are in the various trade agreements. the report also proposes rules for the settlement of multilateral, regional and bilateral disputes, such as temporary defensive retaliatory measures against the offending country.
in writing. − this proposal lays down rules and procedures to ensure the effective exercise of the eu's rights to suspend and withdraw concessions or other obligations in international trade agreements. this proposal covers four types of situations: retaliatory measures following the adjudication of trade disputes under the wto, retaliatory measures following the adjudication of trade disputes under other international agreements, rebalancing measures where a third country adopts a safeguard without adequate rebalancing measures and rebalancing measures where a third country modifies its tariff concessions. the rapporteur warns that the idea is not to use the mechanism now created. its mere existence, he says, will create a deterrent effect that will make its use unnecessary. it is the european union which wants to impose its aims and safeguard its interests by encouraging third countries to respect the rules of international trade.
in writing. - this is an important report for azorean fishermen, as it contains measures which are crucial to their livelihood and, consequently, to the azorean economy, where the fisheries sector plays a key role. the regulation now includes special attention to the outermost regions in the definition of the union's priorities in the objectives of the emff. it was very important that my proposal was approved, which provides for the co-financing rates of an additional 10 percentage points, plus the maximum ceiling for the emff contribution, whenever operations in the outermost greek islands and the outermost regions which are disadvantaged by distance are financed by the emff. it is also a future regulation which will include support for temporary cessation during periods of biological defence. in addition, studies will be financed in the context of the protection of our sensitive biogeographical areas, for the identification and classification of these areas. investment in fishing gear and equipment that allows better species selectivity and resource management, as well as operational costs related to the control, inspection, monitoring and traceability of fishing activity and fishery resources, will also be supported.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. support for diversification of fishing activities in other sectors is contrary to this objective. on the contrary, the creation of enterprises in the fisheries sector should be encouraged.
in writing. - the question of the european union's fishing capacity is a recurring theme in the political debate, undermining the usual disagreement between the so-called friends of fisheries and the friends of fish. i think i have had the opportunity to express my disagreement with this dichotomy. in my view, this is not only false but it risks enclosing a debate, which is intended to be fluid but rigorous, around maximalist positions which, being so irreducible, do not contribute anything to the search for concrete solutions to concrete problems. i have seen with regret the dismantling of the fishing fleets of several countries, including my own, and i regret the way in which this decline in activity has negatively affected the fishing communities of the union. i am also aware of the risks and effects of overfishing which threaten to have an even more devastating impact on these stocks in the medium and long term. it is in this context of seeking complex balances on a difficult subject that i understand the compromise reached.
in writing. − the sea must be a concrete priority with a high potential for positive impact and promoting economic dynamism and job creation. the european union should focus its efforts on exploiting and making the available resources in this area more profitable, through a strategy that ensures the environmental and economic sustainability of activities linked to the sea. the protection of biodiversity is certainly a priority which must reconcile the interests of all those involved in this sector. a common strategy is needed, capable of coordinated and integrated management in the use of resources, but ensuring a complete and effective response to the specificities of each region in this area. i would stress the importance of small-scale fishing for the protection of biodiversity, economic dynamism and social stability in specific areas and regions of the european union, which is why the eu must provide funds to support its activity, both in terms of fleet and equipment renewal and safety and de-cluttering. in the maritime and fisheries sector, research should play a key role in defining new strategies for the development of the sector.
in writing. - the result of this vote in plenary essentially confirms the vote in the committee on fisheries. we appreciate that the vote confirmed the inclusion in the proposal for a regulation of important proposals that we have made, such as: - the possibility of the emff to financially support the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological defence; - support for so-called biological stops, a longstanding demand of the sector and a measure with a significant positive impact for fishermen and shipowners and for the sustainability of resources themselves; - the increase of community co-financing in the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80% (maximum rate), which is of the greatest importance for a sustainable management of fisheries based on scientific knowledge; - the increase of co-financing for small-scale fisheries projects by 30 percentage points. however, there are still many loopholes and shortcomings in the regulation which led us to abstain. we also regret the rejection of proposals for a more realistic definition of small-scale fishing; for emff support for the construction of new ports, landing sites and lots; for emff support, under strict conditions, for the replacement of engines for safety reasons on board and for fleet renewal, among others.
in writing. the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) for 2014-2020 is now approved. this will include €6.5 billion to help fishermen comply with the rules of the new common fisheries policy, such as the ban on discards, through investment in more selective fishing gear. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: the fund also provides incentives for young fishermen. the emff shall support investments in equipment or on board, including the removal, replacement or modernisation of main or auxiliary engines, provided that the power of the new engine is at least 40% lower than that of the engine being replaced.
in writing. − the reform of the common fisheries policy requires adequate funding to meet future objectives, which justifies the proposal for an emff regulation. this document attaches particular importance to the scheme for compensation of additional costs in the outermost regions, in accordance with article 349 tfeu, which is why the emff should take into account all additional costs incurred by operators in the outermost regions. in addition, taking into account the various points raised in the report, such as fleet overcapacity, transferable fishing concessions and conversion, the need for an action plan for small-scale and coastal fishing, fleet renewal, the social aspect of the emff, temporary cessations and mutual funds, investments in ports, scientific advice and data collection, aid for storage, aquaculture, sustainable development of fishing areas and the integrated maritime policy, among others, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the possibility of the emff providing financial support for the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological protection, - support for so-called biological stops, a longstanding demand of the sector and a measure with a significant positive impact on fishermen and shipowners and on the sustainability of resources themselves, - the increase in community co-financing in the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80% (maximum rate), which is of the utmost importance for a sustainable management of fisheries based on scientific knowledge, - the increase in co-financing of projects related to small-scale fishing by 30 percentage points. however, there are still many loopholes and shortcomings in the regulation which led us to abstain.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution, starting by stressing the importance of the european union being proactive in the overall progress of the international climate negotiations, noting that the inability of the european union to take a leading role and the prospects for achieving progress at global level are influenced by the climate initiatives that the eu itself undertakes. in this context, i stress the need to strengthen the european union's climate initiatives, including through the adoption of an ambitious 2030 framework on energy and climate change, and to dispel any doubts caused either by the limited effectiveness of the european emissions trading system (ets) as a source of incentives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, or by the delay in the inclusion of the aviation sector in the ets. developed countries should help developing countries reduce their emissions because they see the vast potential of many developing countries for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. − 2015 is close and the european union should prepare its position on the global agreement. i would like to mention a few principles which i consider to be fundamental to the new international agreement: first, the agreement must not divide the world into two groups of countries (industrialised and developing); a system is needed where each country contributes to the common effort according to its responsibilities and capabilities. second, we must combine the targets assigned to the economies of different countries with common targets to be adopted by specific industry sectors subject to carbon leakage on a global basis. thirdly, the framework should be much more flexible and accommodate a wider range of initiatives, in particular bottom-up initiatives, such as accommodating energy efficiency-related city initiatives. fourth, market mechanisms must continue to be used to regulate climate change issues. finally, cooperation in research and development of clean technologies should be a central objective.
in writing. − it is essential that the eu develops a strategy to tackle climate change, making a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions, without jeopardising productive activities, particularly industries. any policy on climate change, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, by putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive. the focus should be on more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and cleaner technologies to maintain european competitiveness and enable job creation in a green growth environment.
in writing. - climate change is a global challenge whose effects can be minimised, mitigated, but are unavoidable and will bring demographic changes, new diseases, problems for farmers, serious difficulties for civil protection bodies. this means that every state, every level of government and every citizen is called upon to fight this battle. i expect broad commitments, shared and coordinated action and binding targets on a global scale. i hope that the warsaw conference will not be a conference but rather a key moment for a global agreement. the eu must lead by example and continue to play a relevant and leading role. the eu must take on board its commitments already adopted in resolutions and the objectives in this area, in particular those of the europe 2020 strategy. the current crisis cannot be an excuse to forget or diminish environmental concerns. on the contrary! it is that an environmental policy, as the european union has advocated, stimulates innovation and investment in environmental goods and services, generating jobs and export opportunities. to diminish environmental concerns - and to forget sustainability - would be tragic and a lack of solidarity with future generations.
in writing. − as in previous resolutions, we agree on the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets with greater concern for meeting the targets set and the need for other more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations). but in this resolution, as in the previous ones, so-called market solutions prevail, the result of which is clearly visible in the functioning of the carbon market. the emissions trading scheme (ets) is one example of the clear failure of market instruments. in view of the inevitable environmental and political fiasco it represents, they now intend to combine it with other similar mechanisms for the creation of a world carbon market. we are faced with an attempt to hide the failure of the european ets by passing it on to the world, at the cost of generating millions of euros in fictitious financial assets, concentrated in the biggest polluters on a global scale. the climate, and the policies surrounding it, have been more of a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than a reason for serious, genuine concern about the future of the planet.
in writing. the european parliament must be firm in its defence of the kyoto protocol and the reduction of co2 emissions in the post-2012 period. the adoption of this resolution on the warsaw climate change conference brings greater responsibilities to the eu to go further in reducing co2 by 20% by 2020, which could help to stimulate the european economy. concrete measures are needed to close the gigatonnes gap (i.e. the difference) between current levels of ambition and the levels required to keep global warming below 2°c. the eu must remain at the forefront of defending the objectives set for the consequences of climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a european parliament resolution which stresses the importance of the eu being proactive in the overall progress of international climate negotiations and notes that the eu's inability to take a leading role and the prospects for achieving progress at global level are influenced by the climate initiatives the eu itself undertakes. in this regard, the need to strengthen eu climate initiatives is highlighted, including through the adoption of an ambitious 2030 energy and climate change framework, addressing any doubts caused by either the limited effectiveness of the european emissions trading system (ets) as a source of incentives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or the delay in the inclusion of the aviation sector in the ets.
in writing. − i am of the view that the post-2020 agreement will have to integrate the various binding and non-binding provisions adopted under the un framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol into a single comprehensive and coherent regime binding on all parties. the post-2020 agreement should not divide the world into categories of industrialized or developing countries, but instead require each country to contribute according to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. i therefore believe that emission reductions calculated on the basis of a number of indicators, such as gdp per capita, access to technology and the quality of life index, among others, are a valid instrument and have therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − as in previous resolutions, we agree with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, with greater concern for meeting the targets set and with the need for other more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations). but in this resolution, as in the previous ones, so-called market solutions prevail, the result of which is clearly visible in the functioning of the carbon market. the climate, and the policies surrounding it, have been more of a pretext for lucrative business opportunities than a reason for serious, genuine concern about the future of the planet.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in order to try to provide a text which responds to the urgent need to combat effectively the phenomena of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, we must in fact draw attention to phenomena which, by virtue of their global dimension, now require an equally large response. the european union must respond to this challenge by equipping itself with the appropriate tools to meet it, based on the most advanced legislative model in the member states. in this context, i suggest a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework to strike at the economic heart of organised crime and to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. i believe that further efforts must be made to promote a faster and more flexible public administration, less corruption-prone, more responsible politics, a faster and more credible criminal justice system, a healthier entrepreneurship, a more transparent banking and professional system and adequate measures to combat money laundering, in order to prevent crime from continuing to generate profits at the expense of the legal economy, businessmen and law-abiding citizens.
in writing. - vat fraud generates a loss of revenue for the eu of €100 billion per year. the cost of corruption amounts to some €120 billion a year, or 1.1% of the eu's gdp. small-scale corruption in the public sector represents a loss of eur 20 million for the union. some 3,600 international criminal organisations operate in europe, 70% of which are made up of members from several countries, and 880,000 people are subject to forced labour in eu countries. i welcome this report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which contains measures on the confiscation of assets of criminal organisations and their reuse for social purposes, the abolition of banking secrecy and the introduction of a european-wide corporate taxation.
in writing. − organized crime has taken advantage of the new opportunities brought by economic globalisation and technological progress and has become a transnational and global phenomenon with devastating economic and social effects. moreover, organised crime, corruption and money laundering, although still distinct phenomena, are now in many cases intertwined. the new sophisticated forms of organised crime, corruption and money laundering require effective and strong measures, and the globalisation of criminal networks also requires a global and joint eu response, and here is an important contribution to that end.
in writing. − this report is the result of intensive and in-depth work involving the most diverse sectors and actors of society, and responds to the recognised need for the european union to equip itself with the appropriate tools to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the number of international criminal organisations operating in the european union is estimated at 3600, 70% of which include elements from different countries and currently operate in a geographically heterogeneous range, misusing the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies. this is a phenomenon whose complexity, gravity and negative effects on economic development and social equity are compounded by its global dimension. it is a challenge for the european union, which must act in a determined and concerted way, ensuring a more advanced model of legislation in its member states.
in writing. - despite positive aspects such as the lifting of banking secrecy and the imposition of some limitations/penalties on companies based in tax havens the report falls far short of what was required. the general approach is one of repression, not prevention and combating at the source, as would be necessary. the report does not go to the heart of the matter, but serves to justify measures to create new supranational bodies which, by their nature, cannot compensate for the attack being made at national level on bodies which are fundamental in the fight against and control of phenomena such as organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of tax havens. no measures are proposed to attack the free movement of capital, which is essential to the flourishing of these criminal practices. the so-called banking union is being defended as a useful way for banks to escape the regulatory and legislative control of political and democratic power, continuing to function as centres for money laundering of the most shameful origin: drug trafficking, human trafficking, corruption, etc.
in writing. - the european parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering has done an excellent job, resulting in the document now adopted, which raises issues of great importance. the document proposes, for example, measures on the confiscation of assets of criminal organisations and their reuse for social purposes, the abolition of banking secrecy and the introduction of a european-wide corporate taxation. the cost of corruption amounts to 1.1% of eu gdp. a european action plan for 2014-2019 to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering is proposed. there is still much to be done to eliminate corruption in the eu, but the adoption of this report is an important step in that direction. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which proposes, among other measures, the confiscation of assets of criminal organisations and their reuse for social purposes, the abolition of bank secrecy and the introduction of a european-wide corporate taxation. it is important to combat this scourge, as the cost of corruption amounts to 1.1% of eu gdp.
in writing. − organised crime, in addition to violence and intimidation, also includes corruption, ranging from money laundering to fraud and tax evasion. in an era of globalisation, there are some 3600 international criminal organisations operating in the european union, of which 70% have a wide range of activities, as they are made up of members from several countries. the following report sets out the need to combat the phenomenon of organised crime and calls on the european union to do so urgently. it thus suggests a homogeneous and coherent legislative framework, which also aims to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. the activities of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering included meetings with a number of experts, representatives of the various european institutions, academics, judicial authorities and other interested parties. i believe in a europe which makes the eradication of crime a priority, and i therefore vote in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. - despite some positive aspects advocated in the report, the general approach is one of repression rather than combating at the source, as would be necessary. the majority of the ep does not make the necessary self-criticism of the responsibilities it has in this matter, nor does the eu as a whole. on the contrary, i did. it uses this report to move forward with a further withdrawal of powers which are at the heart of the sovereignty of states, in particular over their justice systems. the proposal to set up a criminal investigation body and an internal investigation agency, a mechanism to monitor the effectiveness of criminal justice systems and a european public prosecutor's office are examples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the taxation of capital. no measures are proposed to tackle the free movement of capital and the phenomena of corruption, organised crime and money laundering which continue to flourish in this way. and the so-called banking union is being supported, which will be a useful way for banks to escape the regulatory and legislative control of political and democratic power, continuing to function as centres for money laundering of the most shameful origin: drug trafficking, human trafficking and corruption.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european neighbourhood policy aims at creating an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the values of the union and characterised by close and peaceful relations at regional level, promoting a strong and sustainable democracy, the rule of law, political and economic reforms, a sustainable social market economy in the countries neighbouring the european union and creating a circle of friends of the union and friendly relations between them, which therefore constitute the major guiding principle for assessing progress which in turn should be the contribution to the security, solidarity and prosperity of each party. in this context, i condemn the negative effects of the policies of border closures in the european union's neighbourhood, and in particular between the eastern partnership countries and the countries applying for eu membership. furthermore, taking into account that the multilateral dimension of the neighbourhood policy provides a unique opportunity to bring together all countries and stakeholders in the regions and to contribute at political level to the development of democracies in these regions, i could not agree more with the establishment of an effective european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − this resolution underlines the importance of a differentiated and incentive-based approach to the eu's neighbouring countries. the different countries have different situations but one common denominator - the eu's active role as a partner in building democracy and respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - as shadow rapporteur and former co-rapporteur of the last two european parliament resolutions on the european neighbourhood policy (enp), i have followed this complex dossier closely. i therefore congratulate mr panzeri (s&d) and mr saryusz-wolski (ppe) on their excellent work and commitment, which have once again enabled this parliament to express its views with one voice on this comprehensive union policy, which has a positive effect on geographical, social, economic and political realities as diverse as those found along the baltic and red seas. i would first of all like to stress the insistence on the principle of more for more, which obviously means less for less if our partners do not apply the universal principles of respect for human dignity on which our union is founded. i also welcome the continued support for the democratic transition processes of our neighbours to the south and east, both in terms of capacity building and in terms of economic and financial support and poverty reduction. although it seems obvious, i think it's always important to remember these principles. finally, i welcome the inclusion in the report (following my proposal) of the ultimate objective of a greater euro-mediterranean economic area, which should be the culmination of the processes of economic integration between the south and the south that have already begun.
in writing. - there are many tensions at the union's borders and many particular challenges facing the union in its relations with its neighbours. the pursuit of closer relations with its majority is a noble purpose on the part of the union which thus seeks to expand democracy, human rights, the rule of law and freedom and justice in trade. unfortunately, these european efforts have been opposed by countries which consider that their strategy of geostrategic hegemony is undermined by european meddling, which points to a path of parity instead of subordination and compromise instead of domination. this issue cannot be avoided and must be addressed directly to the states which do so, so as to allow the union's neighbours to make free choices about their own future. when european resolve is called into question, the union must not waver or be intimidated by unreasonable pressure. their neighbours are strategic partners who deserve respect and support when they are under pressure. only if she stays by his side will she be worthy of his support.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy plays a key role in promoting a wider area of prosperity, freedom and respect for human rights, social equity and sound and sustainable democracies. it is also crucial for social stability and a peaceful environment. the economic and social crisis which the eu has faced in recent years - and still faces - cannot lead to the neglect of good neighbourly relations and partnership policies which promote better economic and social development in the most disadvantaged regions surrounding the european area. the 2012 interim reports should be duly analysed for both positive signs of developments and indications of setbacks, in order to allow the development of plans and mechanisms capable of strengthening partnerships and the success of european good neighbourly policies.
in writing. - this resolution clearly emphasises the imperialist character of the european union. in the wake of other resolutions on the european neighbourhood policy, a position of open interference in the internal affairs of sovereign countries, the promotion and conclusion of the so-called association agreements and free trade treaties is affirmed. these countries are being pressured to accept the interests of the eu's great powers and their monopolies, relinquishing the instruments of sovereignty over their economy, their resources and the promotion of the interest of their peoples. the text includes principles such as more for more or less for less, which, as the text itself makes clear, are aimed at establishing relations which have nothing to do with the specific and mutual interests of the countries concerned and of the eu countries as a whole. it is a question of extending the deception of the possible opening of the eu market, to then create a relationship of dependence and subsequently dominance by the stronger pole the eu. there is no lack of guidelines and mechanisms to achieve the objectives pursued. political parties and civil society (those promoting policies that defend the interests of the eu and of the monopolies of these countries) will be supported to promote the goodness of eu policies.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy aims to strengthen the partnership between the eu and neighbouring countries and societies in order to build and consolidate healthy democracies, strive for sustainable economic growth and manage cross-border links. i believe that the analysis of the various interim reports, which deal with the situation of many of our neighbours, shows that the eu's neighbourhood policy has been delivering results. although there is still a long way to go, i believe we are on the right track in making the fundamental principles on which the eu is based known to our neighbours. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution entitled 'european neighbourhood policy: towards a strengthened partnership'. position of the european parliament of 4 july 2012 (not yet published in the official journal) and decision of the council of 6 july 2012. i do so by underlining the important role played by civil society in the reform and transition processes and in political dialogue in neighbouring countries, and therefore urging the eu to strengthen cooperation with civil society in these countries by supporting it through a range of different funding instruments.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the publication of the 2012 interim reports on the southern and eastern european neighbourhood policy countries, but regrets that in most cases both these reports and subsequent developments present a mixed picture of progress, stagnation and regression. in addition, these reports describe the national situation without assessing the programmes conducted by the union or making specific recommendations as to the allocation of funds under the eu's external instruments or development cooperation assistance and their influence on policy-making in partner countries. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this resolution, following on from previous ones on the european neighbourhood policy, confirms the increasingly imperialistic character of the eu. the position advocated here is open interference in the internal affairs of the eu's partner countries to promote the so-called association agreements and free trade treaties, seeking to condition them to accept the interests of the eu's great powers and their monopolies, relinquishing the instruments of sovereignty over their economy, their resources and the promotion of the interest of their peoples. the text includes principles such as more for more or less for less, which, as the text itself makes clear, aim at establishing relations which have nothing to do with the specific and mutual interests of the countries concerned and of the eu countries as a whole, but which, on the contrary, aim to extend to them the deception of the possible opening of the eu market, in order to create a relationship of dependence and, subsequently, domination by the strongest pole, the eu. there is no lack of guidelines and mechanisms to achieve the objectives pursued. political parties and civil society (those promoting policies that defend eu interests and monopolies) will be supported to promote the goodness of eu policies.
in writing. - i welcome this report, while reiterating the importance of cohesion policy as the main investment instrument, which plays a key role in combating the crisis, reducing regional disparities and putting the european union and its regions on the path to sustainable growth. i therefore stress the importance of ensuring adequate budgetary means, in the context of the negotiations on the 2014-2020 framework, for the european union's structural and investment funds, noting in particular their significant share of investment in a number of areas such as employment, innovation, sustainable development and support for smes. at the same time, i am deeply concerned about the sharp fall in public and private investment in the productive economy, especially at local and regional level. i believe that decisive action is needed to reform product and labour markets, adopt prudent wage policies, base the future growth model on innovation and shift production to high value-added activities, given that a sustainable economic policy requires very favourable conditions for the creation of new businesses.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is the result of an evaluation by the european parliament of the country-specific recommendations proposed by the european commission in the context of the european semester process. this year's report is presented against a more favourable backdrop of strengthening of the banking sector, positive indicators in the state accounts and in the economy in general. european policies and structural reforms are beginning to produce visible positive results. the committee also calls for the introduction of a european system of national accounts for the financial year 2000 and for the establishment of a european system for the financial year 2000 to be used by the commission to monitor the implementation of the budget. i consider that this report represents an active and positively contributory position of the european parliament in the debate on european economic governance and therefore i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is the result of an evaluation by the european parliament of the country-specific recommendations proposed by the european commission in the context of the european semester process. this year's report is presented against a more favourable backdrop of strengthening of the banking sector, positive indicators in the state accounts and in the economy in general. european policies and structural reforms are beginning to produce visible positive results. this text does, however, point out some essential points which need to be taken into account in the development of the process of economic coordination between the countries: concentration on the objectives of growth, employment and investment, the need for greater democratic scrutiny of the role of the troika, the existence of more specific and tailored country-specific recommendations for the member state concerned, the need to assess the social impact of the measures and reforms undertaken by the member states in the process of economic recovery and the assessment of the reasons which have led to the major internal divergences within the single currency countries. i believe that this report represents an active and positively contributory position of the european parliament in the debate on european economic governance and therefore i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. − as adopted in the last revision of the stability and growth pact, for which i was one of the rapporteurs, the european parliament, after an exchange of views with the national parliaments, gives its views on the country-specific recommendations proposed by the european commission and adopted by the council. i would remind you that it is the country-specific recommendations which guide the drawing up of the national budgets of the member states and which represent an engine for the convergence of economic policies. thus, according to eurostat data, only one euro area country was in surplus in 2012, reflecting the adverse conditions in which budgets for 2014 are being planned. i therefore consider it essential that there are policies at european level to stimulate growth and job creation which can counterbalance the demanding fiscal consolidation measures being implemented. in particular, i call for the urgent need to implement the pact for growth and jobs, with an estimated budget of eur 120 billion agreed in june 2012, and to make available the eur 180 billion of additional investment from the eib.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is the result of an evaluation by the european parliament of the country-specific recommendations proposed by the european commission in the context of the european semester process. this year's report is presented against a more favourable backdrop of strengthening of the banking sector, positive indicators in the state accounts and in the economy in general. european policies and structural reforms are beginning to produce visible positive results. this text does, however, point out some essential points which need to be taken into account in the development of the process of economic coordination between the countries: concentration on the objectives of growth, employment and investment, the need for greater democratic scrutiny of the role of the troika, the existence of more specific and tailored country-specific recommendations for the member state concerned, the need to assess the social impact of the measures and reforms undertaken by the member states in the process of economic recovery and the assessment of the reasons which have led to the major internal divergences within the single currency countries. i believe that this report represents an active and positively contributory position of the european parliament in the debate on european economic governance and therefore i shall vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the european semester was presented as a mechanism for coordinating the economic policies of the different member states. since coordination is not an end in itself, it is important to see what the content of the policies that are to be coordinated is. we are faced with a mechanism to tie each country to a path of civilizational regression, of attack on rights, of levelling down living and working conditions in europe. a dossier which involves the emptying of the institutions of national sovereignty, democratically legitimized, transformed into mere verbiage, authentic puppets of the eu directory. the rapporteur - and this is significant - a portuguese socialist - spreads socialist flowers throughout the report. it presents as a major advance the recommendations for the surplus countries to invest and increase wages, in order to buy the product of the work of workers who are poorly paid in countries like portugal, which are destined to be increasingly subordinated and peripheral in the process of the international division of labour. but it also makes clear the positive reception of the country-specific recommendations put forward by the commission. what are these recommendations? for portugal: compliance with the deficit targets set by the troika, further reductions in the wage bill, reduction in public consumption, so-called permanent fiscal consolidation measures, privatisations, and so on. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies between eu countries calls for more attention to be paid to growth, employment and investment. the report also stresses the need to revise the current troika model into a community system subject to democratic control. due account should be taken of the constraints imposed by economic adjustment programmes on the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives for growth and jobs. we must find out where we went wrong in the solutions to solve the crisis so that we can rectify what has gone wrong, so that we can make the necessary corrections.
in writing. − this report presents an active and positively contributory position of the european parliament to the debate on european economic governance. on its own initiative, parliament evaluates the country-specific recommendations proposed by the european commission in the context of the european semester process. this year's report is presented against a more favourable backdrop of strengthening of the banking sector, positive indicators in the state accounts and in the economy in general. european policies and structural reforms are beginning to produce visible positive results. this text does, however, point out some essential points which need to be taken into account in the development of the process of economic coordination between the countries: concentration on the objectives of growth, employment and investment, the need for greater democratic scrutiny of the role of the troika, the existence of more specific and tailored country-specific recommendations for the member state concerned, the need to assess the social impact of the measures and reforms undertaken by the member states in the process of economic recovery and the assessment of the reasons which have led to the major internal divergences within the single currency countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european semester allows the european institutions to have a say in the definition of member states' macro and microeconomic policies. this own-initiative report analyses the 2013 country-specific recommendations proposed by the european commission, with an in-depth plan for each member state to consolidate public finances and implement economic reforms to boost growth and jobs, with the exception of the countries receiving assistance. the slow recovery of the european union shows that austerity policies in public finances and structural reforms are giving positive signals. however, these signals are not felt in the real economy, by people. this is why it is important to study the social impact of adjustment measures, especially in the countries involved, which are making a herculean effort to meet the commitments they have made. i think that fiscal consolidation is essential, but we must not forget that we must do it in a growth-friendly way. we must support smes because they are the cornerstone of the european economy and we must focus on education and innovation, which are the differentiating factors compared to the union's partners.
in writing. - we cannot support a report which is based on a process (european semester) which is against the interests and aspirations of workers and peoples, which is anti-democratic and which is against the rights of sovereignty and nationalism. the majority of meps are in favour of not only maintaining this unacceptable process but also of deepening its basic features. it is not only as a process that the majority advocates the deepening of the european semester. it's also in its content. the report is full of examples: the defence of the alignment of labour costs with productivity, i.e. making workers pay for costs that are alien to them; the maintenance of the so-called adjustment programmes, authentic pacts of aggression against the peoples, and forcing the policies of each country to meet the objectives of strategy 2020, i.e. an agenda of more privatisations of companies and public services, liberalizations and destruction of labour and social rights; the reduction of taxes on capital, using environmental subterfuge. the same majority in the ep that voted against our amendment to the budget for an increase in funds to deal with youth unemployment is the same majority that criticises the lack of funds in this report. in a word, hypocrisy.
mr president, it is not enough for the european union, the member states and the europeans to mourn all the lampedusas, to do so and to insist on a policy of inhumane border controls, on the penalisation of the weakest and on the strengthening of a fortress europe is hypocritical and cynical. only by changing european immigration policy can we protect the people who risk their lives trying to get there and hoping to find protection, shelter, a future and solidarity. what the european union needs is therefore the courage to take a stand in solidarity and to invest in the fight against trafficking and exploitation of human beings. it is time to set an example in respecting human rights and prevent more and more lampedusas from happening. that is why i think that the resolution we have passed in this house cannot remain within these walls, it must begin to have an effect.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting with the call for a more holistic approach to migration, to ensure that migration issues can be dealt with in a comprehensive way. i therefore encourage the european union to develop a more comprehensive strategy, in particular with regard to the mediterranean, which puts labour migration within the social, economic and political context of its neighbourhood, and the european union and its member states should consider the instruments available under the european union's visa policy and labour migration legislation. i therefore also urge the member states to introduce strong criminal sanctions against individuals who facilitate the trafficking of human beings both within and through the european union, and to launch large-scale information campaigns aimed at raising awareness of the types of risks faced by those who put their lives in the hands of traffickers and smugglers.
in writing. - i express my deep sadness and deep regret at the tragic loss of life off lampedusa on 3 october. member states have a legal obligation to provide assistance to migrants at sea. the only way to prevent further tragedies in the mediterranean is through a coordinated approach at eu level, based on solidarity and responsibility. legal entry into the eu is preferable to more dangerous irregular entry, which can entail risks of human trafficking and loss of life. in addition, member states should provide for strong criminal sanctions against individuals who facilitate trafficking in human beings and develop better coordination of means and resources, including those available to frontex (such as the eurosur surveillance system) and europol, in order to step up, together with third countries, the fight against criminal networks of smugglers and traffickers in human beings.
in writing. - the recent tragedies in lampedusa, which have led to the deaths of several hundred people, once again highlight the urgency and the responsibility of the union and its member states to find the most appropriate responses to this enormous human rights challenge. saving human lives is something that cannot be questioned. this requires the necessary amendments to existing legislation, both at eu and member state level, in order to create greater legal clarity and certainty, overcoming the difficulties caused by the existence of divergent rules and practices and removing any remaining obstacles. it is incomprehensible that several member states publicly accuse the union of failing to act in this area and at the same time deny it powers in the council, despite the clear opinion of the court of justice on this matter. europe has a long tradition of protecting human rights and i am convinced that we all want to continue to take pride in the leading role that europe has always played in these matters. it is important, however, to remember that responsibility-sharing and solidarity are indispensable factors in ensuring the protection of human life and fundamental rights.
in writing. - of course my voice joins those of those who are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life off lampedusa. of course i cannot be against more efforts to prevent more lives being lost at sea. member states have a legal obligation to provide assistance to migrants at sea. i argue that legal entry into the eu is preferable to more dangerous irregular entry. this can only be achieved through a coordinated approach, based on solidarity and responsibility, and supported by joint instruments.
in writing. - the humanitarian tragedies in lampedusa reflect the imbalances in economic and social development between regions and countries in the context of the global economy. they highlight the problem of migration flows on a global scale and the importance of european policies towards third countries. as a pioneer and a stronghold in the defence of social rights and human progress, the european union cannot fail to give a real and effective response leading to the elimination of abuses and exploitation of the human condition, especially of the most vulnerable populations. according to the international organization for migration, at least 20,000 people have died at sea in the last 20 years, an average of 1,000 people a year. human lives are at stake, and the european union and its member states cannot afford to waste efforts and resources in order to prevent these tragedies and to ensure better coordination of search and rescue operations, especially since in many situations we are faced with abuses by smugglers and traffickers of human beings.
in writing. - tragic and shocking events are taking place off the italian island of lampedusa. but this resolution does not make a serious assessment of the situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what happened in lampedusa once again demonstrates the inhuman nature of the eu's immigration policy, holding the eu institutions, including the majority of this parliament, responsible as promoters and supporters of it. this policy will continue to lead to death, mistreatment and the most heinous violations of the human rights of immigrants. those who flee exploitation, hunger and misery in search of a little better life cannot be treated as criminals. this is a more appropriate description for those who advocate policies that allow (or tolerate) the death of thousands of human beings in the mediterranean. the resolution, which is based on the usual words of circumstance, shows the will to maintain and deepen the same repressive and criminal policy. no measures are proposed to address the root cause of this problem.
in writing. − the only way to prevent further tragedies in the mediterranean is through a coordinated approach at eu level, based on solidarity and responsibility. member states have a legal obligation to provide assistance to migrants at sea, and legal entry into the eu is preferable to a more dangerous irregular entry. we must continue to provide humanitarian, financial and political assistance to the crisis-affected regions in north africa and the middle east with a view to tackling the real causes of the migratory and humanitarian pressure. only then will we be able to put an end to the successive human losses that have occurred in recent times.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament calls on the eu and the member states to do more to prevent more (illegal) migrants/refugees from losing their lives at sea when, in an act of desperation, they sought refuge in europe. parliament called on the member states to comply with their international obligations in the field of maritime rescue. member states have a legal obligation to provide assistance to migrants at sea and the only way to prevent further tragedies in the mediterranean is through a coordinated approach at eu level based on solidarity and responsibility.
in writing. - it is not enough for the european union, the member states and europeans to feel sorry for all lampedusas, to do so and insist on a policy of inhumane border controls, the penalisation of the weakest and the strengthening of a fortress europe is hypocritical and cynical. only by changing european immigration policy can we protect the people who risk their lives trying to get there and hoping to find protection, shelter, a future and solidarity. what the european union needs is therefore the courage to take a stand in solidarity and to invest in the fight against trafficking and exploitation of human beings. it is time to set an example in respecting human rights and prevent more and more lampedusas from happening. we believe that the resolution we have passed in this house cannot remain within these walls, it must begin to take effect.
in writing. the tragedy off lampedusa, where some 360 migrants lost their lives and many others are still missing, has brought the issue of migration flows in the mediterranean back to the agenda. one of the major problems is the lack of clarity on the sharing of responsibilities between the various entities involved in search and rescue operations. in the area of asylum too, responsibility-sharing is extremely necessary in order to reduce the pressure on member states which receive higher numbers of asylum seekers, and it is recommended that a mechanism be set up with these resources. the relocation of rescued migrants is one of the most concrete forms of solidarity and more programmes, such as eurema, through which beneficiaries of international protection have been transferred from malta to other member states, should be developed. the commission's proposal to set up a task force on the issue of migration flows in the mediterranean is a first step towards a coordinated approach to this issue, so as to avoid similar tragedies.
in writing. - contrary to what might be suggested, the existence of an ep resolution on the tragic event off the italian island of lampedusa does not make a serious assessment of the existing situation, much less advocate policies that help to find solutions to the daily human tragedy that the attempt of thousands of migrants to reach eu countries constitutes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the majority of the ep is complicit in what has happened and in a policy which will continue to cause death, ill-treatment and the most heinous violations of the (human) rights of immigrants. the resolution shows that the majority of meps continue to defend the treatment of migrants (people fleeing exploitation, hunger and misery in search of a slightly better life) as criminals, while the criminal activities that fuel their exploitation continue unabated. behind the usual words of circumstance on these occasions, there is a desire to maintain and deepen a repressive and even criminal policy in the way it approaches immigration - see the role given to frontex.
mr president, we have voted in this house to suspend the negotiations on the swift agreement. it is already difficult to explain to the european citizens that the european union has entered into negotiations with the united states for an agreement which would allow the transfer of all data relating to all bank transfers made within the european union to the american authorities, without receiving anything in return, and this is an abuse and it is already difficult to explain. but it would be even more difficult to explain that after the nsa scandal, after the edward snowden revelations, the european union did nothing, this is what it is preparing to do, it is nothing, to continue the negotiations. it is therefore very good that this parliament has approved the suspension of the swift agreement, but it is not enough, because this agreement is shameful for european citizens and therefore this agreement must be annulled.
in writing. - i approve this report, hoping that for security reasons and in view of the union's responsibility to defend and protect its citizens against terrorist attacks, the agreement will not be suspended on the basis of the alleged large-scale surveillance by the nsa until the commission has completed its investigation. it also considered that any suspension not based on sound and fundamental grounds would constitute a shortcoming in the european union's policy to combat terrorism. i therefore urge the commission to submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal for the adoption of a legal and technical framework for data mining in the territory of the european union, because without it the current tftp agreement between the european union and the united states of america would be at risk as of july 2015 under the provisions of article 11 of the agreement. i welcome, in this context, the statements by commissioner malmström and the director of europol on the state of implementation of the agreement and the high degree of compliance with it.
in writing. − the eu-us agreement on the processing and transfer of bank data for the purposes of the terrorist finance tracking program (tftp) entered into force on 1 august 2010. in this context, the us national security agency (nsa) had access to financial data of european citizens managed by the swift company. the european parliament is, however, seriously concerned by the recently revealed documents on the activities of the nsa, which point to a breach of the agreement. the european parliament calls for the suspension of the banking data transfer agreement with the united states. no eu member state has yet opened an investigation into the allegations of espionage and it would be important for the council and the member states to authorise europol to open an investigation into the allegations of unauthorised access to financial payment data provided for in the agreement.
in writing. − in 2010, i could not support either the tftp interim agreement, which in my view called into question the respect for the principles of necessity and proportionality and the integrity and security of european financial data, or the final tftp agreement, because, although it enshrined a whole series of improvements, the level of protection enshrined was not yet acceptable. i continue to argue that any data-sharing agreement with the us, or any other country, will have to be based on a coherent legal framework for data protection, with legally binding rules, limitation of need, purpose, data minimisation, information, access, correction, deletion and redress. despite the remaining weaknesses in the current agreement, it still does not appear to be satisfactory to the us authorities, given allegations that the nsa has directly accessed the computer systems of a number of companies, including financial payment messages and related data. the information that has come to light is of extraordinary gravity and requires a swift clarification. i hope that commissioner malmström's initiatives will be pursued effectively and that the eu is prepared to suspend the agreement if it is confirmed that it has been breached. i regret that no member state has opened an investigation, nor asked europol's cybercrime centre to do so.
in writing. − unfortunately, there are many reports that sovereign bodies and public entities in eu member states have been subject to surveillance by the national security agency of the united states of america. despite this media buzz, there has been little hard evidence of such activity. i therefore believe that this matter should be thoroughly investigated and that in doing so we should not adopt anti-american positions which could harm the investigation. at present, the data available are clearly scarce and do not recommend the suspension of any agreements with the usa. i believe, on the contrary, that there is a clear need to promote the re-establishment of confidence in the transatlantic partnership which we all need on both sides of the north atlantic. without a healthy relationship between allies, which detects, dispenses with and repudiates actions or temptations of control and surveillance that go beyond the limits of acceptability, we risk condemning europe to irrelevance and the united states of america to loneliness and decline.
in writing. − while agreeing with the unquestionable principles of defending the individual rights and freedoms of citizens, the suspension of the swift agreement with the united states may make europe and other parts of the world more vulnerable in the fight against terrorism, with the aggravation of its increase and its action representing devastating effects for all citizens. security measures in the fight against terrorism, which are intended to promote and support individual freedom, must necessarily be undertaken in compliance with the rule of law and must be subordinated to fundamental rights obligations, in particular with regard to privacy and data protection. but we must be careful in taking decisions and actions which could undermine legal and lawful investigations of criminal activity and, in particular, of terrorist activity.
in writing. - this resolution is yet another example of the hypocrisy on which the so-called fight against terrorism is based. it is undeniably part of a process of civilization's retrogression. by feeding and fomenting fear, by trying to convince the workers and the people of the need for measures which gravely violate their freedom and rights. the case of widespread espionage promoted by the us nsa, as well as the links between the us, other eu and nato powers and terrorist organisations (see the example of syria and libya), help to unravel the ongoing implementation of a global system of espionage and militarization of international relations commanded by nato, increasingly intrusive, in open confrontation with the principles of the united nations charter and international law, repressive of the freedom of peoples, their political and democratic rights, their inalienable right to sovereignty and to choose their own paths most consistent with their desires and aspirations. defending the suspension of the tftp agreement is a positive objective, which we supported. however, we cannot fail to denounce the hypocrisy of the majority of this parliament (right-wing and social democrats) who now want the agreement suspended, when they had previously voted in favour of its implementation, despite our warnings.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. the european union should not suspend the agreement on the transfer of bank data with the united states, the so-called terrorist financing detection programme, following the surveillance programmes of european citizens by the us national security agency. we must first confirm with the united states the veracity of the facts that have been published, and only then take positions that could call into question the most important thing, an effective fight against terrorism. only after serious dialogue with our main counter-terrorism partner can we take decisions which may put the lives of european citizens at risk.
in writing. − the eu-us agreement on the processing and transfer of bank data for the purposes of the terrorist finance tracking program (tftp) entered into force on 1 august 2010. this motion for a resolution is based on reports that the us national security agency (nsa) has had access to financial data of european citizens managed by the swift company. a special inquiry is under way in parliament's civil liberties committee into the large-scale surveillance of eu citizens. the existing agreement which is being suspended has been difficult to obtain and the damage of its suspension is not being properly weighed up, so i cannot vote in favour of its suspension.
in writing. - the suspension of the swift agreement negotiations was approved. it is already difficult to explain to european citizens that the european union has entered into negotiations with the united states for an agreement which would allow the transfer of all data relating to all bank transfers made within the european union to the us authorities, without receiving anything in return. any data-sharing agreement can only be based on a coherent data protection legal framework that includes legally binding personal data protection rules, in particular on purpose limitation, data minimisation, information, access, correction, erasure and judicial redress. after the nsa scandal, after the edward snowden revelations, the european union, which did nothing, this is what it is preparing to do, is to do nothing and continue the negotiations. it is therefore very good that this parliament has approved the suspension of the swift agreement, but it is not enough, because this agreement is shameful for european citizens and therefore this agreement must be annulled.
in writing. − on 1 august 2010, the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the processing of financial payment messages data and their transfer from the eu to the us for the purposes of the terrorist finance detection programme entered into force. i am deeply concerned by the recently disclosed documents on the activities of the nsa concerning direct access to messages of financial payments made by european citizens. in this respect, i fully agree with the proposal for a full technical investigation into the allegations that the us authorities will have unauthorised access to swift servers. finally, i would like to stress the importance of defining the criteria of necessity and proportionality of any measure restricting fundamental rights and freedoms, taking into account the totality of the security measures in force, the purpose of which is to combat terrorism and serious crime.
in writing. - this resolution is yet another example of the hypocrisy of the so-called fight against terrorism. as we have always warned, its aim is inseparable from the brutal attack on workers and peoples, particularly in the eu, seeking its ideological conformation, feeding and fomenting fear, trying to convince workers and peoples of the need for measures that seriously violate their freedom and rights. the case of widespread espionage promoted by the us nsa, as well as the increasingly clear links between the us and other eu and nato powers to terrorist organisations (see the example of syria and libya), help to unravel the ongoing implementation of a global system of espionage and militarization of international relations, commanded by nato, increasingly intrusive, in open confrontation with the principles of the united nations charter and international law. the suspension of the tftp agreement (an instrument of the so-called fight against terrorism) is a positive and immediate objective which we support. however, we cannot fail to denounce the hypocrisy of the majority in the ep (right-wing and social democrats) who now want the agreement suspended, when they had previously voted in favour of its implementation despite our warnings.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by noting that the reduction of some eur 3 955 million in the oda forecast and eur 384 million in the vat-based own resource is offset by fines totalling eur 1 229 million. in my view, this automatically translates into an increase of eur 3 110 million in the additional contributions based on the gni of the member states, i.e. a net increase of eur 2 736 million in national contributions (including vat). i would stress, while recognising the significant burden this will impose on national budgets, that this technical adjustment on the revenue side should not be at the expense of fully covering the justified payment needs already identified by the commission in draft amending budgets no 8 and 9/2013. i would also remind the council of its position based on an artificial under-budgeting of previous years and would point out in this regard that the accumulation of annual budgets for the period 2007-2013 is €60 billion below the overall agreed ceiling for payments under the mff for the period 2007-2013.
in writing. − i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today because it seeks to avoid a shortage of liquidity that could lead to an implementation deficit in 2013, based on the level of payment appropriations authorised in the 2013 budget including only amending budgets 1 to 5.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 6/2013 includes a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and levies in the sugar sector), the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom and a revision of the estimates of other revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution among member states of their contributions to the union budget as own resources. i welcome the fact that this automatically translates into an increase of eur 3 110 million in the additional gni-based contributions of the member states.
in writing. − this draft amending budget no 6/2013, as amended on 18 september 2013 by the commission's letter of amendment, covers a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and levies in the sugar sector), the vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the corresponding corrections for the united kingdom and a revision of the estimates of other revenue from fines, resulting in a change in the level and distribution among member states of their contributions to the union budget as own resources. this draft amending budget is essential to avoid a shortage of liquidity that could lead to an implementation deficit in 2013, based on the level of payment appropriations authorised in the 2013 budget including only amending budgets 1 to 5. i therefore voted in favour of this draft amending budget no 6/2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2013. it is an operation designed to integrate into the budget each year the revenue from customs duties, fines for infringement of community law, which today represent no more than 15% of the total. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume to unrelated customers in the union increased by more than 10% during the period considered. this has forced member states to increase their annual contribution slightly, to a total of €1.3 billion. the integration of these revenues was urgent because, since the beginning of october, the commission has been unable to make any repayments/payments to the member states under the cohesion funds due to a lack of liquidity. it is important to reiterate that this budget has nothing to do with the approval by the european council of amending budget no 8/2013 amounting to eur 3,9 billion, a condition for the european parliament to be able to vote on the agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the first is an annual current operation, the second is to increase the payment appropriations in 2013 which, based on estimates provided by the member states, will exceed eur 20 billion by the end of this year.
in writing. − this draft amending budget (dab) no 6 for the financial year 2013 aims at a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and sugar levies), vat and gni bases, the budgeting of the relevant uk corrections and their financing and the revision of the financing of the gni reductions for the netherlands and sweden in 2013, resulting in a change in the distribution of their contributions to the eu budget from own resources among the member states. a review of the forecasts for other revenue, resulting from the fine of eur 561 million imposed on microsoft, and the establishment of the necessary budgetary structure to allow the creation of the union trust funds provided for in article 187 of the financial regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission, in which the commission is requested to provide all the information at its disposal on the amount and the way in which the increased national contributions provided for in this amending budget due to the decrease in traditional own resources will be transferred from the member states' treasuries to the union budget. indeed, it is important that the commission also reports on the net impact that this increased contribution based on gdp will have, if any, on the balance of member states' budgets in 2013 and 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2013. it is an operation designed to integrate into the budget each year the revenue from customs duties, fines for infringement of community law, which today represent no more than 15% of the total. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume to unrelated customers in the union increased by more than 10% during the period considered. this has forced member states to increase their annual contribution slightly, to a total of €1.3 billion. the integration of these revenues was urgent because, since the beginning of october, the commission has been unable to make any repayments/payments to the member states under the cohesion funds due to a lack of liquidity. it is important to reiterate that this budget has nothing to do with the approval by the european council of amending budget no 8/2013 amounting to eur 3,9 billion, a condition for the european parliament to be able to vote on the agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the first is an annual current operation, the second is to increase the payment appropriations in 2013 which, based on estimates provided by the member states, will exceed eur 20 billion by the end of this year.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that in a period of economic crisis and austerity, it would be almost impossible to emphasise environmental policy, as this would be interpreted as a secondary priority or, in other words, as a constraint or a hindrance to economic growth and employment. this short-term and divisive vision should be replaced by an effective combination of environmental messaging and economic and industrial concerns, bringing together all stakeholders in an innovative and progressive approach. in my view, action on the environment has very high costs as does inaction in this area but it also has benefits that neither public finance nor private investors can ignore during the current period. for this reason, environmental concerns should not remain the adjustment variable but should be integrated into the various sectoral policies. by proposing a general framework, the seventh environment action programme can serve as the european union's major environmental manifesto to its citizens and the rest of the world and as the founding act of a european green new deal for 2020, guaranteeing greener growth and creating jobs.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted today by the european parliament which aims to solve some complex environmental problems. in particular, to raise awareness of the ecological limits of the planet and the environment, with a view to maximising the benefits of environmental policy for the economy and society.
in writing. − the last environment action programme ended in july 2012. the priorities for the seventh programme must now be set, at a time when the environmental challenge is of the utmost importance and is far from being met. by 2050, improving global environmental performance is urgently needed and this requires a commitment to a greener and more sustainable economy in a framework of competitiveness, innovation and job creation.
in writing. − over the last 40 years, a wide range of environmental legislation has been established in the eu, which has contributed to the most comprehensive and modern regulatory body in the world. in addition to legislation, eu action programmes on the environment have existed since the early 1970s. today we are aware that the proposed environmental objectives will only be achieved if they are integrated into all the union's policies and activities. however, in many parts of europe, eu citizens continue to be exposed to dangerous substances, potentially endangering their health and well-being. the eu aims to combat or minimise these problems by implementing the environment action programme (eap), which is due to run until 31 december 2020. it is expected that this programme will have sufficient financial resources and the political will of the eu and the member states to be implemented. the eu has nothing to gain from becoming a green and inclusive economy, which will ensure sustainable growth and development, the protection of the health and well-being of eu citizens and a secure and supportive future for generations to come.
in writing. − the previous environmental action programme expired at the end of july 2012. it is therefore important to agree on the new framework up to 2020 and to propose an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050. the new european programme should aim to educate, inform, train and strengthen the participation of the european citizen. despite the difficulty of dealing with these issues in the context of an economic crisis, it is essential that they are not forgotten, or we will regret it in the future.
in writing. - the communication on the union's environmental policy deserves greater attention. more pedagogy is needed to ensure awareness of the eu's environmental choices at all levels: from administrations to citizens, entrepreneurs and investors. this can only lead to better application of community legislation. this action programme could also help to strengthen the common feeling of europeans towards the protection of the natural heritage and the improvement of the environment in their continent and in the world. parliament considered that the seventh environmental action programme should send a strong political message to the rest of the world and contribute to the creation of international governance in the field of the environment. the eu must in fact get third countries to commit themselves to the same commitment on environmental and climate matters. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − implementing an environmental policy in a time of economic and financial crisis is a challenge, as environmental actions generate very high costs. however, an environmental policy that provides favourable conditions for the competitiveness of the economy, i.e. a low-carbon and sustainable economy, is essential. this report underlines the need for a european green new deal in horizon 2020. i also stress the importance of environmental legislation, which should seek greater coherence and simplification, while respecting the principles of smart regulation. the natural capital of the european union and its biodiversity must be safeguarded. this requires intensified efforts to combat environmental dumping and carbon leakage. given the urgency of a long-term environmental perspective for 2050 that provides an environment conducive to investment, growth and job creation, i am in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. − the development of the european union's environmental policy has been established through environmental action programmes since the 1970s. this seventh action plan sets out the objectives to be achieved and identifies the measures and actions it considers necessary for their implementation. the report identifies a set of objectives with which we agree, including protecting, conserving and enhancing the eu's natural capital. however, the pathways identified, such as market mechanisms, the polluter pays principle, the emissions trading scheme, the eu 2020 strategy, not only do not allow some of these objectives to be achieved, but also contribute to pushing the member states and the eu further away from achieving them. it insists on a purely market-based approach to environmental problems, favouring profit generation and its concentration in large economic groups, at the expense of speculation around the carbon price, among other illusory instruments, which contribute to the increased commodification of natural resources and environmental solutions, removing the public character of policies, financing and services.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that this proposal for a recast of the council bss directive is another step towards improving protection against exposure to ionising radiation. one of the aims of the recast is to eliminate the inconsistencies in the existing legislation, which has been achieved in several parts of the proposal and there is little to change. many of the aspects of radiation protection covered by the directive, which sets basic safety standards, work extremely well in practice, which also indicates that there is little to change. the proposal also aims to incorporate the latest scientific data and experience in the field of radiation protection into existing legislation. on the other hand, natural radiation sources should be included for the first time in the bss directive, with a view to ensuring better protection of the general public. this deserves my appreciation. however, in the field of landfill, the planned registration obligations may lead to conflicts in terms of the targets for the disposal of the different radioactive substances. to prevent this from happening, i propose to amend the requirements for naturally occurring radioactive materials.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today, because it aims to recast the existing inconsistencies in the existing legislation, which has been achieved in several parts of the proposal, so there is little to change. many of the aspects of radiation protection addressed by the basic safety standards directive work extremely well in practice, which also indicates that there is little to change.
in writing. − one of the objectives of this proposal for a recast of the council bss directive is to adapt the existing legislation to the latest scientific data on radiation protection and the experience gained. it is thus a further step towards improving european protection against exposure to ionising radiation.
in writing. the report by mr thomas ulmer deals with protection against the dangers arising from exposure to ionizing radiation. the proposal for a recast of the council basic safety standards directive brings together, on the basis of article 31 of the euratom treaty, the medical radiological exposure directive, the hass directive, the external workers directive, the public information directive and the bss directive 96/29/euratom. i believe that natural radiation sources should be included in the bss directive in order to ensure better protection of the general public. in the field of medical exposure, we must avoid duplication with respect to medical devices emitting ionising radiation, i.e. we must avoid that medical devices operating with ionising radiation fall within both the scope of the medical devices directive and the basic safety standards directive. bureaucratic delays for manufacturers and operators of such devices should be avoided.
in writing. − exposure to ionising radiation has harmful effects on health. under normal conditions, the doses are very low, which prevents the observation of clinical effects in tissues. however, there is a possibility of late effects, especially cancer. it does not appear possible to establish a threshold dose for this purpose: any exposure, however small, can lead to cancer later in life. the likelihood of late effects appears to be dose proportional. this requires a specific approach to radiation protection based on the principles of justification, optimisation and dose limitation, which are the cornerstone of the protection system established several decades ago by the international commission on radiological protection (icrp).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposals for amendments to the council directive laying down the basic safety standards for the protection of human health against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation. one of the aims of the recast is to eliminate the inconsistencies in the existing legislation, which has been achieved in several parts of the proposal and there is little to change. many of the aspects of radiation protection addressed by the basic safety standards directive work extremely well in practice, which also indicates that there is little to change. the proposal also aims to incorporate the latest scientific data and experience in the field of radiation protection into existing legislation. in this respect, euratom legislation has always followed the scientific recommendations of the international commission on radiological protection (icrp), which had expressed the need for adaptations to the current radiation protection system, and these recommendations have now been incorporated into the proposal for a directive.
in writing. − article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides the legal basis for the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment and for the protection of human health, including against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation. i support this report which lays down the basic safety standards for the health protection of the general public, workers, patients and other individuals exposed to medical radiation against the dangers arising from ionizing radiation, with the aim of ensuring a uniform minimum level of protection in the member states. i would also like to stress that the presence of radioactive substances in the environment has an impact on the health of the general population. in addition to environmental exposure pathways, the protection of the environment as a whole, including exposure of biota, should be considered within a comprehensive and coherent framework.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a directive is to improve protection against exposure to ionising radiation. the amendments which ensured that these standards would in fact provide the desired protection were adopted, which changed the legal basis of article 31 of the euratom treaty, in accordance with article 192 of the tfeu, which requires the co-decision procedure, i.e. involving parliament in the decision-making processes and future amendments. one of the aims of the recast is to eliminate the inconsistencies in the existing legislation, which has been achieved in several parts of the proposal. the proposal also aims to incorporate the latest scientific data and experience in the field of radiation protection into existing legislation. the proposal takes account of natural radiation sources in order to ensure better protection of the general public. the introduction of a chapter on environmental protection is a positive step, as is the fact that more attention is being paid to the most vulnerable groups of the population.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by noting that in 2011 the common foreign and security policy accounted for 3.54 per cent of the total appropriations in category 4; it has a rate of implementation of 93.12 per cent in commitment and payment appropriations available for this policy until december 2012. i remain, however, concerned that the mandates for the european union rule of law mission in kosovo and the european union monitoring mission in georgia for the period 2012-2013 have been renewed by the council with a budget below expectations. despite the good overall implementation rate, the impact of unjustified cuts to the cfsp budget under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff) would undermine the effectiveness and impact of this policy. finally, i would like to express my concern about the problems encountered in starting up the common security and defence policy missions, such as delays in planning and deployment, lack of staff, difficulties in planning and financial implementation, issues relating to the status of the common european security policy agreements with third countries and difficulties in getting started.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today which calls on the member states to play a constructive role in the union's foreign and security policy by promoting strategic policy coordination at eu level, in particular through effective cooperation between their capitals and brussels on positions taken in multilateral fora, including the united nations and nato.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's view on the priorities and broad lines of the union's common foreign and security policy and i share the notion that only together will we be able to make our voices heard. this convergence does not, of course, exempt member states from pursuing their own foreign policies, nor does it require that we always have to agree. i reiterate my conviction that the demands in the minority opinion repeatedly expressed on mr brok's reports by members of the gue group constitute an excellent list of steps which the european union must not take, otherwise it will become not only irrelevant but above all vulnerable.
in writing. − the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) plays a key role in the european union's global action in line with its values and the acquis communautaire, in particular in the fields of peacebuilding, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, good governance and just societies, as well as global security and economic and social development. in this regard, the budget cuts to the cfsp under the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 and their potential negative impact on the effectiveness and impact of this policy are of great concern, also taking into account its good overall implementation rate in recent years. this concern is compounded by the problems in initiating common security and defence policy missions, such as delays in planning and deployment, staff shortages, difficulties in planning and financial implementation, and issues related to the status of cfsp agreements with third countries. it is therefore important to create synergies, in particular between civilians and the military, and to avoid overlaps between existing policies and new initiatives.
in writing. − the eu should continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests globally, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication. these objectives will only be achieved through an effective common foreign and security policy (cfsp) shared by all eu member states. the cfsp objectives must be explained to the public, and this requires involving the european media in order to promote solidarity, bring together different national perceptions and raise awareness of the cfsp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which calls on the member states to play a constructive role in the union's foreign and security policy by promoting strategic policy coordination at eu level, in particular through effective cooperation between their capitals and brussels on positions taken in multilateral fora, including the united nations and nato. the european parliament also stressed the need to make the union more effective as a cohesive global actor in a period of economic constraints. in this connection, it notes in particular that the member states have an important role to play in the development and effective implementation of the common security and defence policy, not only by providing civilian and military capabilities but also by ensuring the common financing of operations and by strengthening the european industrial and technological base.
in writing. − the global financial crisis and the growing assertiveness of new emerging economies pose major challenges to the union's common foreign and security policy. to meet these challenges, collective and concerted action and alliances will be needed within the union, and all its policies must be in line with international law and the charter of the united nations. i voted in favour of the document because i believe that the union must defend the interests of its citizens in the world and base its policies on the promotion of the fundamental values on which it is founded, such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights, social justice, the fight against poverty and respect for other countries.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that although the commission has an obligation to review the framework periodically and has recently committed to reviewing two parts of the framework (directive 2002/58 on privacy and electronic communications and the recommendation on relevant markets), it has not yet announced its intention to carry out a global review. six years after the commission's proposal, the first assessment to be made is that the internal market for electronic communications is still incomplete, with no pan-european operator, for example. while it considers a single market to be crucial, the package was designed primarily to provide regulatory certainty for the sector. it should be seen as part of a wider framework, i.e. as a tool that can create the conditions necessary to foster and combine investment and competition, thus having an impact on citizens' lives.
in writing. - i consider it essential that the telecommunications sector benefit from a relevant, stable and coherent framework for the promotion of investment, innovation and competition and, consequently, for a better quality of services for the benefit of european consumers. it is necessary to adopt rapidly a new regulatory framework on the protection of personal data, which is intended to increase the security of electronic communications in the internal market. i believe that consumer rights should be strengthened, especially in the case of multi-service contracts (e.g. fixed line, mobile telephony and digital television), in the event of switching suppliers and number portability in a dynamic market. i therefore voted in favour of the trautmann report, which considers that innovation, economic growth and job creation, as well as a competitive price offer to end users, can only be promoted through a competitive eu-wide market for high-speed broadband services.
in writing. - i welcome the report adopted by the european parliament today, because it is based on the assumption that the overall objective of the regulatory framework for electronic communications should continue to be to promote a sectoral ecosystem of competition and investment that benefits consumers and users, encouraging the creation of a genuine internal market in communications and promoting the union's overall competitiveness.
in writing. − electronic communications are an integral part of the daily lives of citizens and institutions. the absence of legal certainty in the regulation of telecommunications markets and the predominantly national character of telecommunications markets hamper their progress and delay their dissemination. the possibility should therefore be envisaged not only of evaluating the existing framework but of seeking to improve it by means of the active participation not only of the competent european and national institutions but also of the main actors and stakeholders in this field, bearing in mind that a balance is sought, as harmonious as possible, between the specific interests of each state in this respect and those of final consumers. i believe we must move towards an increasingly open market, with increasingly intelligible rules and where consumers can make an informed and conscious choice of services that are appropriate to their needs.
in writing. − the impact of electronic communications on the lives of citizens and institutions is certainly growing and with a very wide and accelerated potential for progression. it is clear that any consolidated strategy for growth and development, whether at economic, social, cultural, legal or other levels, must take the digital dimension as a determining factor. its role is highly incisive in the economy at global level and, in particular, in the single, unified and competitive european market. the universality of the internet and cybersecurity require consolidated measures of common legislation and co-regulation. in order to stimulate innovation, increase consumer choice, reduce costs and increase efficiency in the deployment of high-speed electronic communications infrastructures, a combination of various measures and all available technologies should be explored and offered to consumers. a pan-european auction of fourth and fifth generation wireless services with a limited number of licences serving the entire eu territory would allow the provision of pan-european wireless services and undermine the foundations of the poor roaming service.
in writing. − one of the key points of electronic communications is to reduce the costs and increase the efficiency of deploying high-speed electronic communications infrastructures by making greater use of best practice across the eu, thus improving the conditions for the establishment and functioning of the internal market, a field which supports the development of virtually all sectors of the economy. it is common ground that, irrespective of the technology used, civil engineering works constitute the dominant part of the overall costs of network deployment, with estimates of up to 80% for certain technologies. we must continue to invest in the development of electronic communications, which are a key element of economic development and growth and which are transversal to all economic sectors.
in writing. − the successive regulations in the field of electronic communications, which led to the current framework, have worked well to date, bringing dynamism to the industry and benefits to consumers and other users. as mentioned above, however, there are a number of issues which need to be taken into account in the next revision of the framework. this does not mean that the framework is inadequate, but it does show the speed of change in the sector. i voted in favour of this report, which presents constructive proposals, feasible solutions and compromises between the many contradictory aspects. this is a task of great economic importance, with enormous potential for impact positive or negative on citizens and which requires caution as well as thorough debate and analysis.
in writing. − the following report calls for a thorough review of the current legislative framework, specifically as regards the coordination of european electronic communications. a single market is crucial and there are a number of measures which can contribute to this objective. one of these is radio spectrum, on which an inventory of the use of frequencies by the member states was drawn up in a first programme. the net neutrality of the internet, which requires careful deliberation, and the extension of the current regulation to over-the-top (ott) services should also be highlighted. however, despite the positive results of these measures, the internal market for electronic communications remains incomplete, especially as regards the regulation of the sector. i therefore vote in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. − in november 2007, the commission's proposals for the regulation of electronic communications emerged, and were adopted by the parliament and the council two years later (november 2009) after long and difficult negotiations. the assessment now being made concludes that the internal market for electronic communications remains incomplete, for example, with no pan-european operator. this assessment is intended not only to promote further liberalisation of the communications market but also to expand privatisation of these services, including the dispossession of the public sector to private interests. the concept that they so much criticize, that the fragmented market is harmful, is only the reproof of what is still left of the guarantee of a public service provided by the state to the populations with regard to electronic communications, which often have social and tariff concerns that no private company has. this is the stumbling block which the monopolies of electronic communications find in the so-called unification of the market, so fundamental to concentrate the provision of this service on a handful of economic groups, to the detriment of guaranteeing the access of the populations to the services and the sovereignty of the member states.
mr president, it is a request for clarification to mr swoboda and also a request for clarification to you, mr president of parliament. if i may go on, i would ask mr swoboda to explain to us what difference he makes between the empl amendments and the regi amendments, some of them taking into account, for example, issues of youth unemployment which are so crucial for the future ... (speech interrupted by the president for technical reasons) i hope that the interpretation is now working correctly. mr swoboda and mr schulz, the citizens may not understand the technical regimental nuances that you have mentioned here, but they do understand that amendments on youth unemployment, a subject that the president spoke about last week in paris, risk not being voted on if the president's decision on the voting system is upheld. and that is the most important part of our responsibility to the citizens of europe. i would like mr swoboda to explain to me how you can save an empl amendment and then not have the youth unemployment amendments which leave out the countries with the highest youth unemployment and, mr president, i ask you directly here, to finish ... if i could just finish the question... but i have a direct question for you, mr. president... (interrupted speech) the president spoke of reports which, as a whole, were not controversial in the vote in the committee, which had very clear votes, but i give you the example of the olbrich report, the report as such had a very clear vote but it is the amendments we are talking about that did not have them and the amendments on youth unemployment were passed with few votes, or rather, were rejected with few votes, which justifies the plenary sitting to take a decision on this again. is that true or not, mr. president?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, commissioner, investing in erasmus is investing in european youth. erasmus+ is the new european programme for education, training, youth and sport. this programme will aim to improve students' skills, personal development and their employment prospects. youth unemployment is a serious problem in europe. the committee on budgets has therefore given priority to all youth policies, especially those relating to employment. in this sense, erasmus+ is the programme with the largest budget increase in the next community framework: compared to the previous period, a 40% increase with a total budget of eur 13 billion, demonstrating the commitment of the committee on budgets and this parliament to the future of our youth.
in writing. the person who has a mobility experience is never the same person again, because he or she is valued personally and professionally in different contexts, which gives him or her a greater preparedness and capacity to adapt and innovate in his or her work. any improvement in the skills of citizens is essential for our competitiveness, especially when it creates new prospects for the younger generation, which is facing difficulties in finding employment. and in the sense that we all gain from cooperative initiatives, all of europe must be involved in this effort, from the azores to helsinki. education and training are thus extremely important areas in the present context and therefore deserve increased attention from the european union. to this end, the programmes we are discussing today must be financed in such a way as to increase the number of opportunities for participation and to ensure that appropriate support is provided from the origin to the country of destination of the participants, so that all those who wish to take advantage of this initiative can do so.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and stress the importance of this financial package for the future of the european union, in particular to enable the implementation of infrastructure crucial to the security of supply in the different european regions and the functioning of the european market. the reindustrialisation of the union depends on common transport, energy and telecommunications policies. unfortunately, austerity policies and budget cuts are putting these objectives on the back burner and mortgaging the future by imposing a financial allocation that cuts the budget of the connecting europe facility by 40% and the share of the energy sector by almost 44%. parliament has done its duty by approving the networks and the financing instrument. unfortunately, the council has not risen to the challenge. more ambition would have been needed if we were to increase competitiveness, create jobs and generate economic growth.
the existence of reliable and efficient transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures is unquestionably important for the promotion of development and economic and social cohesion. the cohesion policy, because of the limited resources allocated to it, is far from meeting these and other needs, a situation which will be aggravated in the coming years by the reduction in the budget of the european union which the right wing and the social democrats here will be approving. this new connecting europe facility has objectives which cannot but be highlighted here, with resources which are admittedly far below the investment needs in these areas and, moreover, it is seeking funds from the cohesion fund which is thus further impoverished. the mechanism serves the objectives of liberalization and privatization of these sectors and the monopolistic concentration associated with it, it will channel public resources to the private interests of large european economic groups, it will put the budget of the european union to the service of the financial markets, it will satisfy the interests and needs of some great powers, accentuating, rather than combating, inequalities and asymmetries.
even if people feel that the european union is contributing to the taking away of their rights, even if they don't identify with the project, the european union has decided that it will spend 215 million over the next seven years to convince and force people to feel, to get past the pleonasm, a sense of belonging and to feel the values of this project of capitalist integration that is the european union. it's an aberration to want to impose an identity on yourself. etymologically, identity means essence of being, or whether it is felt or not felt, it does not impose itself. 25% of the funding of this programme is devoted to strand 1, devoted to anti-communist propaganda, which is the falsification of historical reality, equating fascism with communism, trying to criminalize and outlaw not only communists but all those who reject this system, whitewashing nazi-fascism, concealing the class nature of fascism and concealing that anti-fascism is and was at the core of the action and the liberation struggle of the communists for which millions gave their lives. we won't allow that.
public procurement has long been the target of voracious appetites. this agreement on public procurement is part of the neoliberal logic of opening up to the market areas where, traditionally, the states have exercised, and in some cases still exercise, their social function through public services. the rapporteur sets out some of these areas in his explanatory statement, helping to make it clearer what is at stake here: water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture, amongst others. these are the areas that big transnational capital wants to tap into in as many countries as possible, the better. this deal will make your path easier. public procurement is an important instrument for defending employment with rights, promoting economic activity and preserving the environment, that is, everything that is threatened by the subjection to the rules of capitalist competition that this agreement sacralizes.
last week the imf released its evaluation report on the troika programme in portugal - an insult to all those who, in the last two and a half years, have lost their jobs, lost their unemployment benefits, had their wages cut, had their pensions cut several times, had their access to health and education reduced. the imf is insatiable. faced with the evidence that austerity doesn't work, respond with more austerity. if it doesn't work, it's because she hasn't done enough. for those of you who thought you'd seen it all, we're told we're only at the beginning of the inclined plane, but there's no cute austerity. they want even more brutal cuts in wages and pensions, more attacks on public services until they are privatized. the imf has declared war on the workers, the pensioners, the unemployed and the government is offering to enforce it. only a strong, widespread and united social struggle can defeat this government and all the troika.
growth, increased domestic consumption, protection of the most socially vulnerable, words that are repeated far from everyday reality. in its annual growth review for 2014, the commission again tries to throw sand in the eyes with the same words. the report on the 8th and 9th imf evaluations of the implementation of the troika programme in portugal refers to the need for a reduction in production costs, including wages. it's not worth fooling the portuguese anymore. what is at stake, yes, is the reduction of wages, the pushing of more and more portuguese to the minimum wage of 485 euros, as has been happening. maybe one day they'll even want to end the national minimum wage. but what is not clear is how they will promote domestic consumption and how they will protect the most vulnerable. they will then have to protect 25% of the portuguese population, many of whom are working people, who are at risk of poverty. the socially vulnerable that you speak of in caricature are real families destroyed by your policies.
mr president, the adoption of this multiannual financial framework is the culmination of a farce that has been announced for a long time. at a time when the unequal nature of integration, asymmetric interdependence and divergence between countries and regions are deepening, the true face of the european union, the fraud of european solidarity, is in plain sight. for the first time in history, the budget is reduced in nominal terms. if it was already small, it has now been crushed, even in the framework of a new enlargement. the biggest beneficiaries of the single market and common policies have once again gone ahead and imposed the cuts they wanted. cohesion is the big one. there are still scandalous inequalities in the distribution of cap funds. macroeconomic conditionality will impose permanent blackmail on the states in greatest difficulty. with this approval the mask and the demagogy of european social democracy also fall to the ground. the agreement reached in the council has been put to the vote and it is shameful indeed. but here they are now approving it, which is no less shameful.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i think that at the end of this long procedure for agreeing on the multiannual financial framework, a word of thanks should go to all those who took part in this difficult and long process, in which the presidency and the heads of state played a major role, and who in fact defined, with the agreement of 7 and 8 february, certain characteristic and substantial elements, in that they set the figures with a cut that was certainly not in line with the european parliament's intention. we shall approve today this compromise on the mff because the three conditions we had set have been met: 1) the securing of 2013 payments, which is important because we could not allow the residual payments from the old programming to be transferred to the new financial framework, which has very low figures in itself; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, mrs haug, you, the european social democrats and the socialist parties say that the agreement is bad. why do you vote for it then? you have criticised the budgetary treaty, you have said that you would only approve it if there was a bigger budget; you have approved the budgetary treaty, we do not have a bigger budget. now they say the budget is bad but they approve it and say they are waiting for the budget review. how long are we gonna keep this up? one thing your constituents are certain of is that you will always choose the worst of the options, always promising that the next time will be different. is that so, mrs. haug? what guarantees can we have of that?
the multiannual financial framework is an instrument which creates stability by defining the headings, the corresponding financial amounts, the programmes, the policies and the priorities. the unanimity required in the council for the adoption of the multiannual financial framework has been and will always be a difficult problem to overcome, especially when we have member states threatening, blackmailing and seeking to veto if the conditions they impose are not met. this is the possible financial framework, with the improvements introduced by the european parliament. we have achieved greater flexibility, we have achieved anticipation and increased funding for the promotion of employment and, in particular, for youth employment. we got a commitment to a review by 2016. i would like to stress one point which i consider very positive: the setting up of a high-level group for the reform of the budget of the european union as regards own resources. in fact, only with own resources and genuine own resources can we increase the budget, which corresponds to about 1% of gross domestic product and is financed by national budgets to the tune of about 85%. this situation leads each leader in each member state to seek a juste retour. i therefore hope that this financial framework will be voted on and that this reform of the own resources of the budget of the european union will be successful.
i would like to welcome the new period of community aid but i cannot because this gift is poisoned. it is combined with a new philosophy: the council and above all the commission are given a free hand to cut or suspend the structural funds already contracted when the deficit and debt targets are breached. these sanctions are unjust, firstly because they are cumulative with what we have already negotiated in the six pack; secondly because they penalise only some member states, which are the most vulnerable, and secondly because they punish citizens, businesses, regions which have little to do with the violations in question. there are two other types of rape, the bona fide ones. firstly, the breach of good faith when we, the parliament and the council, with the support of the commission, negotiated the actual six pack sanctions which may amount to 1% of gdp; the second violation is that the role of community funds is to help those countries which, in the process of integration, abandon trade defence instruments, abandon the exchange rate, abandon monetary policy, abandon budgetary policy and need the funds to achieve real convergence which is lacking. you can't change the rules in the middle of a game. what the commission is proposing, and what the council has insistently and unanimously accepted, is a blow to the citizens' confidence.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the three largest groups in the european parliament say that this 2014 budget was the best possible result, given the conditionality of the council's positions (i would like to ask the socialist group whether françois hollande and the french government are not also part of the council), but this is not true, this agreement is a miserable result compared to the one of 2013. there was, yes, the alternative of rejecting the deal and going to the 12th until we could get a better one. but it is worth asking ourselves: what can one expect from a european budget in times of recession and austerity? there are two possible answers. on the one hand, little is expected, given the political composition of the council and the commission and the majority of the european parliament, but on the other hand, it is in times of recession that the redistributive and solidarity-based nature of the budget is most needed to reduce the divergence between countries and regions and to help to revive the economy. in a budget which is falling considerably, money is being transferred in a juggling act: youth employment is withdrawing money from the european social fund, the fund for the most vulnerable is seeking funds from the territorial cohesion funds, the lampedusa tragedy is being responded to by increasing pro-frontex funds rather than by changing immigration policy. this budget is another missed opportunity, but it is a tragedy for the citizens of europe. the vote in favour today, from the right to those who call themselves leftists, is a punishment for the citizens of europe and cannot be forgiven.
with the vote on the multiannual budget which we have adopted here today, we have declared war on the peoples of europe and on the countries in difficulty. that governments had the stupidity to accept, suspend or cancel the structural funds of countries which do not meet their deficit or debt obligations was serious enough, that this parliament has lost the opportunity to have a vote on the matter is even more serious. what we are doing is to double penalize people and countries that are already in difficulty. in some cases, as in the case of portugal, it means zero budget for public higher education, it means zero budget for research grants, for scientific research, for social action grants. this is the point we have reached and i recall what my colleague miguel portas said here, when are we going to start approving sanctions for stupidity.
the budget for the multiannual financial framework which we have adopted today is a step towards abandoning europe, towards abandoning a europe of solidarity and a europe of cohesion. if this parliament did not have the courage to oppose the demands of some of the governments, it is worth pointing out here, too, that in the case of portugal, prime minister pedro passos coelho was complicit in this budget and in this multiannual financial framework because the proposal had to be approved unanimously in the council and it would have been enough for pedro passos coelho not to have voted on it in february, and therefore what portugal and other countries will suffer in the coming years in terms of the brutal cuts in research and cohesion funds, which will not allow, contrary to what is said, to revive the economy, is the responsibility of this parliament but it is also the responsibility of the governments.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by regretting the cuts made in all the ceilings and in particular in the ceiling for expenditure under cohesion policy. it should be recalled that in order for cohesion policy to continue to be an effective instrument for increasing strategic investment with proven added value and for putting the european economy back on the path to growth and productivity, it was necessary to maintain cohesion policy funding at least at the level of the period 2007-2013, as this is the absolute minimum compatible with efficient funding. i also express my concern about the inclusion of article 8, which refers to macroeconomic conditionality, in the draft regulation, which weakens parliament's position in this area. similarly, it should be recalled that one of the preconditions for the adoption of the regulation, which was laid down by the european parliament's resolution on political agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, is that there is political agreement on the relevant legal bases, in particular as regards points that are also reflected in the multiannual financial framework regulation for 2014-2020.
in writing. − research and innovation are two key pillars for economic development and job creation in europe. it is crucial to increase the share of funding that is allocated to education, research and innovation within the overall eu budget. i welcome the agreement reached, because it addresses these objectives through basic initiatives such as: creating conditions for greater involvement of industry and in particular smes, as it is essential to facilitate the participation of smes in eu research and innovation programmes and improve their access to funding; and promoting the participation of young researchers, as the participation of young researchers in research projects will be doubly beneficial because of the dynamism and innovative spirit that these young people will bring to the projects and the contribution that the framework programme will make to a faster entry of qualified young people into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 to allow for the timely implementation of the multiannual budget. but i do not think it is acceptable to reduce the union budget, especially in the difficult economic context in which europe is living, with many member states being decisively dependent on community funding to boost economic development. the agreement also includes some proposals that had been called for by parliament, namely the creation of a high-level working group on own resources, greater flexibility to move unused funds both between years and between headings, and the introduction of a review clause in 2016.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 comes at a particularly sensitive time for the european union and, in particular, for some member states, including my own. i think it is appropriate that the financial framework should reflect the need for restraint which is also felt by the states and the citizens, but i do not think it can be restricted to the point of calling into question the full exercise of the powers which are vested in the european union. i hope that the new financial framework will make a positive contribution to the european union's more rapid and flexible action, committed to serving the member states and the peoples of the union, in particular those most in need of its solidarity and its support for cohesion.
in writing. - the mff allows for institutional peace and stability. each member state and each beneficiary of the funds and programmes will know what they can count on for the next seven years. it aims to implement the europe 2020 strategy to achieve the objectives set in employment, education, research and innovation, combating climate change and poverty reduction. we must manage our financial resources as efficiently as possible. the mff has, at 2011 prices, an amount of eur 960 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 908 billion in payment appropriations. this was the result of more than two years of intense negotiations. the greatest difficulty is that this agreement requires unanimity. i recall that the united kingdom threatened to veto the mff 2014/2020 if it had an amount higher than the current one (mff 2007/2013). this was the possible agreement where the european parliament made important gains over the initial proposal of the member states in terms of flexibility, the youth employment initiative, the fund for the disabled, own resources and the revision of the mff. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - for the first time, we are facing a reduction in the eu budget in nominal terms compared to the previous programming period. by approving this proposal for the 2014-2020 mff, the majority in parliament is doing what it said it would never do. he takes what he said for what it is and accepts what he severely criticized. this mff represents less than 1% of the gnp of all eu countries, a reduction of 3.7% compared to the current level, in a context of worsening economic and social crisis in the eu, particularly acute in countries such as portugal. our country sees eu transfers fall by more than 10% compared to the previous mff (2007-2013). the mff, which has never had the funds, means and political priorities to make an effective contribution to helping to bridge the gap between countries (which would require at least twice the current amounts), inherits a deficit of eur 15 billion and only promises without guarantees to mobilise the amounts now decided. the blackmail of the (mis) so-called net contributors is foreseen, who have not only determined the amounts and priorities for the mff, but will use these decisions (along with others in the framework of the european semester) to impose, in the neo-colonial style, political guidelines on countries with the weakest economies and facing a serious recession. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is a tool that creates stability by defining programmes, policies and priorities. the delay in the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is due to the need for unanimity in the council. in any event, this did not prevent parliament from making its demands, including that of covering the outstanding payments to avoid starting 2014 - the first year of the new mff - with overdue payments. these non-payments have made it almost impossible for the commission to meet its legal and financial obligations in recent years. parliament sought and obtained even more flexibility, an advance increase in funding for employment promotion, particularly for youth employment, and a commitment to review the mff by 2016. the creation of a high-level group on the reform of the eu budget with regard to own resources is also worth mentioning. if we want more europe, we need real resources of our own which can give it a boost. with the release of the mff, parliament also wanted to agree on the legislative texts relating to the eu programmes for the next seven years, including the reform of the cap.
in writing. − on 8 and 9 february, the european council approved a final compromise proposal on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. after several rounds of negotiations between the european institutions, it was finally possible to reach an agreement on the financial perspective for the next seven years of programming. i welcome the agreement reached which gives europe and the member states a budget to boost a new period of economic growth and job creation, with the structural funds to be channelled into specific areas of economic activity rather than into major infrastructure. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress that this agreement will support youth employment, make the european union more innovative, design new transport, telecommunications or energy networks and also reduce poverty levels in the world.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that for the first time new provisions relating to the multiannual financial framework introduced by the treaty of lisbon have been used, in particular with regard to the increased role and prerogatives which these provisions confer on the european parliament. however, i would stress that, together with its results, the long and laborious negotiation process, both within the council and at interinstitutional level, constitutes an unsatisfactory implementation of the new provisions on the multiannual financial framework. furthermore, i denounce the negotiating strategy of the council, whereby its negotiators were subject to the conclusions of the european council of 8 february 2013 on matters falling within the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure, thus preventing both arms of the legislative authority from carrying out appropriate negotiations. i therefore conclude that, in accordance with article 312 (5) tfeu, further working arrangements should be defined in the future in order to facilitate the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, ensuring that the legislative and budgetary powers conferred on parliament by the tfeu are fully respected.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the mff and consider the mid-term review of the budget to be essential if each member state is to achieve genuine financial autonomy in terms of own resources. the financial perspectives were negotiated in the midst of the worst economic and financial crisis in european history and were agreed at great sacrifice. it also achieved the unanimity of completely different governments with opposite interests and sensibilities and also won the majority support of the different political groups in the european parliament. it is important that we get out of the economic crisis quickly to give our european integration movement a boost, and thus avoid the shortcomings of the new multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - while it is very questionable whether the european parliament's positions and prerogatives have been duly taken into account in the negotiating process involving the three institutions, i nevertheless believe that the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, cooperation in budgetary matters and sound financial management is a step in the right direction. this must be the case of transparent management of public money, its prudent and rigorous administration and its proper control. the way in which the union uses the money at its disposal must be increasingly visible and scrutinized, both by experts in the field and by european citizens who cannot remain outside this effort to clarify and publicise ex ante and ex post how the money at their disposal is used.
in writing. − the agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management is concluded between the european parliament, the council and the commission and concerns the preparation and implementation of the budget of the european union. the european institutions agree to organise their cooperation in order to improve the budgetary process and ensure sound management of european finances. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this interinstitutional agreement does not include any guarantee that the budgetary procedure will be different from what it has been up to now and, above all, it does not guarantee that it will be democratic. ensuring that the process of implementation, operation and interinstitutional cooperation works as proposed here does not guarantee that it will be democratic, since to be democratic the eu budget would have to have at least another process of discussion, proposal and approval involving countries and their sovereign institutions, as well as more money (at least doubled) and measures that would meet the rights and aspirations of workers and peoples. this agreement does not contain any measures to prevent the undemocratic procedure of the president of this parliament, who, with the usual support of his group (social democrats) and the right wing, promised the support of the whole parliament before ensuring that all the groups and all the members could express their will, from being repeated in the future. the agreement will continue to blackmail the council with regard to amending budgets - which are needed in successive stages in the face of the failure to mobilise the funds needed to meet the commitments made by the eu in each annual budget.
in writing. − in this proposal for a parliament decision on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, parliament, taking into account all the vicissitudes of the procedure, in particular the excessive delay, asks its committee on budgets, in cooperation with its committee on constitutional affairs, to draw the necessary conclusions and to submit new proposals in good time before the post-electoral review in 2016 on the modalities of the mff negotiations, in order to ensure the democratic and transparent nature of the whole budget-making process. i therefore voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. − pursuant to article 295 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the objectives of this agreement are to implement budgetary discipline, to improve the operation of the annual budgetary procedure and to improve interinstitutional cooperation on budgetary matters. i am voting in favour of this report which gives more powers to the european parliament in the mff process, but i would like to recall that the negotiators of the various regulations were subject to the conclusions of the european council of 8 february 2013. it should be noted that on matters falling within the scope of the ordinary legislative procedure, such as the criteria for allocation, global amounts per programme or beneficiary, and discretionary allocations of appropriations from the budget of the european union, there was no opportunity to negotiate as expected by the european parliament.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that amending budget no 7/2013 for the financial year 2013 provides for an increase in commitment appropriations in order to respond to certain issues arising from the final outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, which affect france, italy and spain. furthermore, considering that these additional appropriations should contribute to addressing specific situations of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and of poverty and social exclusion in the member states concerned, i support the commission's proposal to allocate the additional appropriations to existing european social fund programmes in the member states concerned in order to address specific situations of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and social exclusion. i hope that the commission will inform the european parliament in due course of the specific measures and actions financed by these appropriations.
in writing. − amending budget no 7/2013 for the financial year 2013 provides for an increase of eur 150 million in the cohesion for growth and jobs heading, with the aim of addressing certain issues arising from the final outcome of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 affecting france, italy and spain. the report endorses the commission's proposal to allocate additional appropriations to existing european social fund programmes in the member states concerned to address specific situations of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment and social exclusion, and calls on the european commission to inform the european parliament in due time of the specific measures and actions financed by these appropriations. the programmes to combat youth unemployment set out in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, in particular the youth guarantee, the youth employment initiative, among others, are not affected. that programme will be operational in 2014 and is not affected by this budgetary correction in favour of those three countries. on the other hand, the priority of the youth employment initiative will not be reduced, with expenditure concentrated in the first two years, i.e. 2014-2015. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to amend the budget to strengthen the european social fund to combat youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in france, italy and spain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the allocation of additional appropriations to existing esf programmes in the member states concerned, in order to correct specific situations of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and social exclusion. but i think it is unacceptable that countries under rescue, such as portugal, have been excluded. it is an intolerable discrimination which i hope will be corrected in the future.
in writing. - the increase in the european social fund to help countries in difficulty is yet another sign of the crisis in the european union, which is threatening many jobs and the viability of many businesses. when countries with once vigorous industries such as spain, france and italy see their production fabric shrinking in a serious way in the union, we must ask ourselves whether everything has been done to understand this phenomenon and to combat it effectively. unemployment, poverty and social exclusion call for political vision and support for those in serious difficulty. it is idle to recall the teaching that it is not enough to give the fish, it is necessary to teach how to fish. there are many situations in which the need for this gift comes before any pedagogy. this is one of those cases.
in writing. - this draft budget represents an increase in commitment appropriations of eur 150 million in category 1b of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for france, italy and spain. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. we agree that these funds, which belong to the member states, should be allocated to existing esf programmes in those member states to correct specific situations of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and social exclusion.
in writing. − amending budget no 7/2013 for the financial year 2013 provides for an increase in commitment appropriations of eur 150 million for category 1b of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in order to respond to certain issues arising from the final outcome of the negotiations on the mff for the period 2014-2020, affecting france, italy and spain. the report states that the additional appropriations should help to correct specific situations of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and poverty and social exclusion in the member states concerned. we voted in favour of the report, but we cannot help but point out that this situation constitutes a deplorable discrimination against other member states in an equally difficult or even worse situation, such as portugal, which cannot benefit from such a measure. the real social scourge that youth unemployment is today requires, as we have argued, a significant increase in the headings devoted to this purpose, specifically funding the creation of jobs with rights for young people in all member states who need this support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amending budget no 7/2013 for the financial year 2013 which provides for an increase in commitment appropriations of eur 150 million for category 1b of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in order to respond to certain issues arising from the final outcome of the negotiations on the mff for the period 2014-2020, affecting france, italy and spain. the commission considers that the most appropriate way of assisting these member states is to increase the european social fund (esf). this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the candidate countries.
in writing. − this amended budget report was agreed in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the british cheque issue, where the european commission and the council decided to increase the european social fund allocations for this year for france, italy and spain, which are the largest contributors to the british cheque. this increase of eur 150 billion will be earmarked for unemployment policy, more specifically the fight against poverty, social exclusion and youth unemployment. i am in favour of the adoption of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that this amending budget concerns the increase in payment appropriations, the aim being to cover outstanding needs by the end of the year, so that the legal obligations arising from previous and current commitments are fulfilled. i would stress that the additional payment appropriations requested will reduce the level of commitments to be settled and the risk of unusually high levels of debt being carried over to 2014. it should also be noted that the overall amount of payment claims outstanding at the end of 2012 relating to cohesion policy (2007-2013) had to be carried over to 2013, which led to a reduction in the level of payments available in the 2013 budget to cover the payment needs of the current year. finally, i note the political agreement reached on 27 june 2013 at the highest political level on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, which included a political commitment by the council to take all necessary measures to ensure that the european union's 2013 obligations are fully met.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to amend the budget with the aim of increasing payments by mff heading and of filling the shortfall in appropriations in the 2013 budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it meets the budgetary needs for 2013, with the aim of covering the outstanding needs by the end of the year, so that the legal obligations arising from commitments made can be fulfilled. this reinforcement will enable beneficiaries to receive the funds provided for by eu policies for which the parliament and the council have accepted the corresponding commitment appropriations in the framework of previous annual budgets.
in writing. - the amending budget is justified by the need to meet the obligations assumed. the question of the size of the union's budgets and their capacity to meet past, present and future obligations is controversial. the council has been particularly frugal in its availability, and it is therefore acceptable to ask whether the pressure of national public opinion may not lead to even greater restrictions in other periods which may actually jeopardise the operation of the european institutions and, consequently, the fulfilment of their obligations and powers. i hope that extreme situations can be avoided and that there is a clear sense on both sides of the need for each other and the difficulty of justifying the existence of both national and european realities, which must have the appropriate means to serve their citizens.
in writing. − the 2013 budget was the one that had to deal with the most payments, as it was the last of the 2007/2013 mff and projects entered at cruise speed. the 2013 budget did not have, as the ep has stated several times, sufficient funds. the result was as expected: in 2013, 9 amending budgets were already adopted to pay outstanding invoices. this amending budget concerns the increase of payment appropriations by eur 3.9 billion in heading nos 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual financial framework (mff), with the aim of covering outstanding needs by the end of the year. that is why i voted in favour. however, i am concerned that, as acknowledged by the commission at the last interinstitutional meeting on payments on 26 september 2013, despite an overall increase in payment appropriations of eur 11,2 billion (oj no 2/2103 and oj no 8/2103), a considerable amount of around eur 20 billion of outstanding payments relating to cohesion policy programmes still needs to be carried over to the next financial year.
in writing. − we support the increase of payment appropriations by eur 3.9 billion in headings 1a, 1b, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual financial framework (mff), aimed at covering outstanding expenditure by the end of the year, so that the legal obligations arising from previous and current commitments can be met. it should be noted that we support this amending budget because some of the above-mentioned headings (1a and 1b) include the financing of policies with a positive potential, particularly in cohesion policy. it should be noted, however, that although it is not possible to determine their specific application, headings such as 3a and 3b concern the areas of justice and home affairs and 'global europe', which continue to merit our direct opposition. and we cannot but denounce that this amending budget is part of the package of amending budgets which fuelled the farce between the council and the majority of this parliament regarding the approval of the 2014-2020 mff, leading the latter to abandon positions previously defended, to say what has not been said and to approve what it had said it would reject.
in writing. − this amending budget no 8 for the financial year 2013 concerns the increase of payment appropriations by eur 3,9 billion in headings 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual financial framework (mff), with the aim of covering outstanding needs until the end of the year, so that legal obligations arising from previous and current commitments can be fulfilled, financial penalties can be avoided and beneficiaries can receive the funds provided for by eu policies, for which the parliament and the council accepted the corresponding commitment appropriations in the framework of the previous annual budgets. the political agreement reached on 27 june 2013 at the highest political level between the european parliament, the council presidency and the commission on the mff for the period 2014-2020 included a political commitment by the council to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's 2013 obligations are fully met. i therefore voted in favour of this amending budget in order to avoid any justified shortfall in payment appropriations.
in writing. − amending budget no 8/2013 concerns the increase of payment appropriations by eur 3,9 billion from the multiannual financial framework, with the aim of covering needs until the end of the year. the additional payment appropriations will allow the level of commitments to be settled to be reduced. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the spanish authorities claim that the economic and financial crisis has led to a sharp collapse of the economy, with a huge impact on many sectors, notably in the construction sector. in countries such as spain, where the annual growth rate of the construction sector was higher than the european average, a slowdown in the construction sector was already expected in the medium term. employment in the valencian community has been severely affected by the crisis. consequently, the employment situation in the affected region appears to be particularly fragile given the impact of the crisis on traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and construction, which are very important for the region's economy. moreover, the available jobs in the valencian community decreased by almost 40% between 2008 and 2011, which will further aggravate the unemployment situation, as the region, namely the province of castellón, is highly dependent on this sector.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 840 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support the 300 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, out of the 630 workers made redundant in 140 factories in the valencian community.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 16 september 2013, the commission approved the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840 000 from the egf in favour of spain. it concerns 630 redundancies in 140 enterprises to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market. the spanish economic and financial crisis led to a sharp collapse of the economy, with a huge impact on many sectors. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures for the reintegration of 300 dismissed workers, such as profiling, career guidance, counselling, training, vocational retraining, intensive job search assistance, entrepreneurship support, incentives, travel expenses contributions, relocation incentives and support for setting up a business.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by agreeing to the mobilisation of eur 840,000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 300 unemployed workers in valencia. this aid, although not covering all 630 workers, is valuable in mitigating the effects of the crisis, aggravated by unfair competition from china in the sector.
in writing. - the adjustment to globalisation is necessary, but given the number of times that its namesake fund is mobilised, it must be acknowledged that it has not yet happened. the european union has not yet found a way to deal effectively with the changing patterns in world trade, relocations and the economic and financial crisis affecting it. the valencian community, like other regions, is suffering from a deep market downturn and the collapse of several companies. i hope that the sums made available to unemployed workers will help them to start their lives over and reduce the impact of the personal, family and social hardship of unemployment.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. pursuant to point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and article 12 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the fund may not exceed the maximum amount of eur 500 million, obtained from the margin existing under the ceiling for global expenditure of the preceding year and/or from appropriations for cancelled commitments of the two preceding years, excluding those relating to heading 1 b. this mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain is to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in 140 enterprises in the valencian community, resulting from major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840000 from the egf. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840 000 for spain following 630 redundancies in 140 companies in the construction products manufacturing sector. in this region of spain, the valencian community, the unemployment rate went from 9.61% (2008) to 29.19% (2013). the employment situation in this region is particularly fragile given the impact of the crisis on traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and construction, which are very important for the region's economy. once again, hundreds of workers are thrown into unemployment in the name of a crisis that is plunging millions of men, women and children into poverty and misery, while in its shadow great fortunes continue to grow. in this europe which claims to defend human rights, the universal declaration of human rights, in particular articles 22, 23, 25 and 26, is allowed to be violated on a daily basis. as usual, although we support this mobilization because we consider it important to support these workers, we reiterate our reservations and critical position with regard to this fund, because we consider that it would be more important if measures were taken to prevent unemployment in order to avoid it.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840 000 from the egf for spain. it concerns 630 redundancies in 140 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace revision 2 with 300 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from 14 june 2012 to 14 march 2013. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures for the reintegration of 300 dismissed workers, such as profiling, career guidance, counselling, training, vocational retraining, intensive job search assistance, support for entrepreneurship, incentives (such as job search incentives), contributions to travel costs, relocation incentives and support for setting up a business. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 16 september 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by 140 enterprises in the valencian community as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840 000 from the egf for spain, based on 630 redundancies in 140 enterprises. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840 000 from the egf for spain. it concerns 630 redundancies in 140 enterprises in division 23 (manufacture of other non-metallic mineral products) of nace revision 2 with 300 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from 14 june 2012 to 14 march 2013. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed includes measures for the reintegration of 300 dismissed workers, such as profiling, career guidance, counselling, training, vocational retraining, intensive job search assistance, support for entrepreneurship, incentives (such as job search incentives), contributions to travel costs, relocation incentives and support for setting up a business. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request to mobilise eur 840,000 for workers made redundant in 140 non-metallic mineral products manufacturing companies in the region of the valencian community. i believe that the european commission should step up support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, helping them to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 840 000 from the egf for spain, for 300 workers out of 630 redundancies in 140 companies in the manufacturing of products for use in civil engineering. we are talking about a region in spain, the valencian community, where the unemployment rate went from 9.61% (2008) to 29.19% (2013). the employment situation in this region is particularly fragile given the impact of the crisis on traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and construction. once again, hundreds of workers are thrown into unemployment in the name of the economic and financial crisis. political options for dealing with the crisis which have a clear class option when in their shadow the great fortunes of this europe which says it is a defender of human rights continue to grow, but which allows the universal declaration of human rights, in particular articles 22, 23, 25 and 26 thereof, to be violated on a daily basis. although we support this mobilisation, we reiterate our reservations and critical position with regard to this fund, because we consider that it would be more important if measures were taken to prevent unemployment, with a view to avoiding it.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the 1994 acp-eu agreement on government procurement has a limited number of signatories, mostly developed countries. one of the objectives of the revised acp is to increase the current number of members. it thus offers incentives to developing countries, including the possibility of applying temporarily higher thresholds and of gradually integrating entities and sectors, with the aim of facilitating opening up to external competition. it is not clear, however, that the revised special and differential treatment clause for developing countries improves the rules currently in force. the new text allows for additional protection, on a transitional basis, of the markets of developing countries, whereas currently exemptions can be negotiated without being limited in time. the new text does not, however, provide developing countries with significantly greater access to the markets of the other acp countries. despite positive progress in terms of procurement procedures and transparency, countries are not expected to sign this agreement unless it is demonstrated that the benefits outweigh the costs.
in writing. − the government procurement agreement (gpa) is a legally binding international agreement on access to government procurement markets to which some wto members are parties. ensuring the provision of services of general interest to the population, including access to essential services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture, remains one of the most important functions of a government. each country takes a different approach to balancing this task with the need to spend the scarce public resources available efficiently and to seek the best quality and value of services and goods purchased. public procurement is also an essential instrument for stimulating employment and economic activity in a region and for promoting a high level of environmental protection and decent working conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider that the proposed revision of the agreement on government procurement improves the quality of the main text, providing greater clarity and transparency in the award procedures. this agreement will ensure the quality and accessibility of the provision of services of general interest to the population, including access to essential services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture.
in writing. - given that public procurement represents millions of euros annually, its economic importance cannot be called into question. the revised acp, which we now approve, provides eu companies with legal certainty for access to foreign markets. the review of the agreement has provided the eu with market access opportunities in terms of the enlargement of covered entities (notably by eea countries and by countries such as canada, south korea, the united states, israel, taiwan and hong kong (china)), in terms of the coverage of goods and services and in terms of thresholds for covered goods and services (notably by japan, korea and israel). the eu has thus secured some €30 billion in new market access opportunities.
in writing. the report by mr helmut scholz deals with the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement on government procurement. this is a legally binding international agreement on access to public procurement markets. it is a multilateral agreement, which was negotiated in parallel with the uruguay round in 1994 and entered into force on 1 january 1996. this agreement was clearly unattractive to the vast majority of wto members. changes were needed at the general level and also in the context of the evolving global trading environment. i believe that we must ensure the provision of services of general interest to the population, including access to essential services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture. i reiterate the importance of this agreement because, for many countries, public procurement is also an essential instrument for stimulating employment and economic activity in a region and for promoting a high degree of environmental protection and decent working conditions.
in writing. − the agreement on government procurement (gpa) is a legally binding international agreement on access to public procurement markets to which some wto members are parties. the eu's participation, given the powers that the treaty illegitimately confers on it in trade matters, is binding on all its member states. one of the objectives of the review of the acp is to increase the current number of signatories, which is relatively limited, by extending it to developing countries. this agreement on public procurement is part of the neoliberal logic of gradually opening up to the market areas where states have traditionally exercised and, in some cases, still exercise their social function through public services. it is these public services that they want to dismantle, opening them up to external competition. the countries party to this agreement, when holding tenders, may not distinguish between foreign and national tenderers. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid scheme for the supply of electricity to the coal industry. public procurement - an important tool for protecting jobs, the economy and the environment - has long been the target of voracious appetites. the rapporteur lists some of the areas that big transnational capital wants to tackle: water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and culture, among others. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the government procurement agreement is a legally binding international agreement on access to public procurement markets to which some wto members are parties. this multilateral agreement, which was negotiated in parallel with the uruguay round in 1994, entered into force on 1 january 1996. the agreement has two parts: the main text, which lays down the rules applicable to tenders and ensures the transparency of procedures and equal treatment of tenderers, and the scope, which is made up of annexes on the conditions of access to the public procurement market. in conducting calls for tenders in the field of covered contracts, the parties may not distinguish between foreign and national tenderers. i voted in favour of this proposal to ratify the revision of the acp which raises the quality of the main text and establishes the rules applicable to contracts, bringing greater clarity and transparency to them.
in writing. − the agreement on government procurement (gpa) is a legally binding international agreement on access to public procurement markets. it is an agreement which is divided into two parts: a main text with the rules applicable to tenders and the scope containing annexes on market access and the specificities of the market. a revision of the acp is proposed to improve its quality and efficiency. some of these include the possibility of using electronic auctions, thereby reducing the notification period, the creation of a centralised database, free of charge, containing the notices of competition published by the various ministries, and new selection rules excluding from the award procedure companies guilty of serious crimes or breaches of professional ethics. it also introduces revised standards for technical specifications on environmental matters, simplification of statistical reporting obligations and new provisions for developing countries wishing to join the acp.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by pointing out that separate chapters are needed to clearly identify the three main areas of the programme, namely education and training, youth and sport. due to its general and abstract nature, the proposal does not provide sufficient specific information on the activities it will cover within the different education sectors. furthermore, the proposal has a strong emphasis on higher education, while the other sectors of education have much less visibility. i stress the importance of finding the right balance between all the sectors of education in the text. i would also point out that the proposal does not include a separate chapter or even an article devoted to youth. it is important to ensure that youth in action activities continue and receive the necessary funding. for reasons of transparency and independence, it is therefore essential that there is both a separate chapter and a separate budget allocation for youth.
in writing. − in november 2011, the european commission presented its proposal for a regulation on a new multiannual programme for education and training, youth and sport for the next 7 years. renamed erasmus+, this programme brings together all current programmes and actions in the field of education: higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundus, tempus and bilateral programmes between the eu and third countries), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth (youth in action). the programme also covers sport, providing for the award of grants to young sportsmen. the aim of the programme is to improve students' skills, personal development and their employment prospects. the budget for the period 2014-2020 is eur 14,7 billion, which represents an increase of 40% over the last 7 years. thanks to the new loan guarantee mechanism, students wishing to study for a master's degree in another eu country will be able to benefit from more favourable conditions. erasmus+ will support partnerships between educational institutions and businesses, with the aim of improving students' employability and developing entrepreneurial skills. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - investing in erasmus is investing in european youth. erasmus for all is the new european programme for education, training, youth and sport. youth unemployment is a serious problem in europe. the committee on budgets has therefore given priority to all youth policies, especially those promoting employment. in this sense, erasmus plus is the programme with the largest budget increase compared to the previous period (current budget of 13 billion increased by 40%), demonstrating the commitment of this parliament to the future of our youth.
in writing. − education and training are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and none of these objectives can be achieved without strong investment in human capital. only a strengthening of measures to support education and training can make a decisive contribution to increasing the skills of citizens and help to cope with the high levels of youth unemployment in many member states. this regulation merges existing programmes, which have been criticised for their lack of flexibility, complexity and adaptability to the changing needs of today's society, into a single programme. a unique programme is thus created, covering the fields of education, training, youth and sport, in a lifelong learning perspective. focusing on three main types of actions, its added value comes from the innovative and transnational nature of the activities to be carried out and the contribution it makes to product development and partnerships across europe. i welcome the introduction of the loan guarantee mechanism, which should guarantee students the possibility of taking a master's degree in another european country. i would also remind you of the importance of the programme being endowed with the necessary appropriations to ensure its effective operation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens the erasmus+ programme, which offers young people the opportunity to study or do a traineeship abroad and establishes a loan guarantee mechanism for master students. in the face of the scourge of youth unemployment in the eu, it is necessary to ensure that this innovative and supplementary instrument for learning mobility does not replace any existing loan or grant schemes, nor does it prevent the creation of additional schemes supporting student mobility.
in writing. − in november 2011, the commission presented its proposal for a regulation on a new multiannual programme for education and training, youth and sport, which will run for seven years, from 2014 to 2020. the proposed programme brings together all current programmes and actions in the field of education: higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundus, tempus and bilateral programmes between the eu and third countries), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth (youth in action). while i very much welcome the rationalization of these programmes to avoid duplication and overlap, i agree with the rapporteur that the erasmus brand is deeply associated with the mobility of higher education students and that renaming these programmes may not be the best option.
in writing. the report by mrs pack deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing the erasmus for all programme - the union's programme for education, training, youth and sport. the new programme for 2014-2020 brings together all current programmes and actions in the field of education: higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundus, tempus and bilateral programmes between the eu and third countries), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth (youth in action). it also includes provisions for jean monnet activities. i would also like to highlight a new chapter for sport. i agree with the amendments which help to harmonize and make the programme more flexible and to streamline and simplify the administrative arrangements. the new programme, which will have a different name from the one initially proposed, will be called erasmus+ and will have a budget of €14.7 billion over the next seven years. i believe it is essential that young people should have more opportunities, particularly in terms of studying/training in another country and through their participation in youth organisations.
in writing. − the eu's programme for education, training, youth and sport, now called 'erasmus+', will have a budget of €14.7 billion for the next period 2014-2020. erasmus+ now covers school education (comenius programme), higher education (erasmus), international higher education (erasmus mundus), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci) and adult education (grundtvig) and aims to offer young people the possibility of studying or doing a training placement abroad. this new programme, instead of grants, provides a mechanism for guaranteeing loans to master students, which we do not agree with, since it pushes students into debt before they have completed their studies. it should be noted that under the pre-bologna system, students had the possibility of accessing mobility grants in any of the five years of training. under the current bologna process, scholarships are only available for three years, and master students are now subject to the debt system the eu is now proposing. the richest have access, the poorest are excluded. it is also inequality that is the most striking feature of this new programme.
in writing. − erasmus+ is an eu programme for education, training, youth and sport, which brings together all current programmes and actions in the field of higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundos, tempos), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth. it is a programme which we support because it gives young people the opportunity for exchanges and development in education and training. although this programme was one of the few to receive a considerable increase in the next budget of the european union, we are opposed to the proposal to institutionalize a new system of loan guarantees. we believe that this loan guarantee system will encourage students to go into debt to pay for their education. this will have consequences especially for the most disadvantaged young people. we also believe that this proposal leads to a situation where only those who can afford it will be able to pursue university education. because we stand for education for all, i abstained.
in writing. − the proposed programme brings together all current programmes and actions in the field of education: higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundus, tempus and bilateral programmes between the eu and third countries), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth (youth in action). it also includes provisions for jean monnet activities and a separate chapter on sport. i voted in favour of this proposal, which welcomes the commission's intention to reduce the fragmentation and overlap in the current programmes and calls for the need to better identify and give greater visibility to specific activities in the field of education and youth. the need to keep the different programmes identified is also noted.
in writing. − erasmus+ is an eu programme for education, training, youth and sport, which brings together all current programmes and actions in the field of higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundos, tempos), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth. it is a programme which we support because it gives young people the opportunity for exchanges and development in education and training. although this programme was one of the few to receive a considerable increase in the next budget of the european union, we are opposed to the proposal to institutionalize a new system of loan guarantees. we believe that this loan guarantee system will encourage students to go into debt to pay for their education. this will have consequences especially for the most disadvantaged young people. we also believe that this proposal leads to a situation where only those who can afford it will be able to pursue university education. because we stand for education for all, i abstained.
in writing. − the proposal to create the erasmus for all programme was put forward by the european commission in november 2011, with the aim of bringing together education, training, youth and sport initiatives in a single european programme. i am voting in favour of this programme because it strengthens support for education, training, youth and sport, and shows that the commission attaches great importance to improving the skills of the european population and is concerned about the future of the younger generations. i would also like to stress the importance of streamlining the structure of the new programme and of significantly increasing its investment, which will enable the european union to significantly expand the number of opportunities it offers to students, trainees, young people, teachers or young workers with a view to improving their qualifications, personal development and their prospects for employment.
in writing. − the eu's programme for education, training, youth and sport, now called erasmus+, will have a budget of €14.7 billion for the next period 2014-2020. erasmus+ covers school education (comenius programme), higher education (erasmus), international higher education (erasmus mundus), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci) and adult education (grundtvig) and aims to offer young people the possibility of studying or doing a training placement abroad. this new programme provides a mechanism for guaranteeing loans to master students, which we do not agree with, since it pushes students into debt before they have completed their studies. this is an aspect which is becoming even more serious in the context of the structural crisis of capitalism, with very high levels of youth unemployment in several member states. it should also be noted that under the pre-bologna system, students were entitled to mobility grants for five years of training, and under the current bologna process, they are entitled to grants for only three years, and master students are now entering the system of indebtedness that the eu is so proud to offer them.
in writing. - i welcome the report, starting with the commission's attempt to create bridges between the cultural and audiovisual sectors by creating an inter-sectoral strand which will help them to tackle the current global challenges: the fragmentation of the european market generated by linguistic and cultural diversity, the need to adapt to globalisation and the transition to the digital system, the lack of comparable data and the difficulties of smes active in the cultural and creative sectors in accessing credit, all of which require action at union level. however, i suggest that the specific nature of each sector should be taken into account and, therefore, in my view, this programme should be set up as a framework programme, comprising two independent programmes, namely a culture and a media programme, and an inter-sectoral strand, each programme having its own specific priorities, objectives and evaluation criteria. finally, i recall the resolution of 8 june 2011 entitled 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe', which reiterates that sufficient additional resources are needed to enable the union to meet its existing policy priorities.
in writing. − the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, as well as to strengthen the social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries. the contribution of the cultural and creative sectors to european gdp is currently 2.6%, with an increasing trend, which is remarkable given the current context of economic crisis, with more than 5 million jobs created. in this regard, bridges should be created between the cultural and audiovisual sectors by creating an inter-sectoral strand, which will help to tackle current challenges and the fragmentation of the european market, the need to adapt to globalisation, the transition to the digital system and the difficulties of smes active in the cultural and creative sectors in accessing credit. in this regard, artistic and creative expression should be supported through mobility, movement, the establishment of partnerships and the promotion of cultural and creative operators, as well as better access to culture for citizens. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, as well as to strengthen its social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries. the media programme should be open to the same number of countries as the culture programme, through simplified conditions of participation.
in writing. − support the commitment made to the creation of a framework programme to support the cultural and creative sectors. this programme should include the current culture, media and media mundus programmes, although divided into sub-groups, taking into account the specific nature of each sector, as well as a new financial mechanism which should improve access to finance for smes and organisations in these sectors. it is essential to protect and promote creativity and culture, which contribute decisively to strengthening education, stimulating innovation, entrepreneurship, sustainable and smart growth, as well as social inclusion and intercultural dialogue. they thus play an essential role in the future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism and democracy. while the cultural and creative sectors have experienced above-average growth in many countries in recent years, they nonetheless continue to face a number of common challenges and difficulties, related to market fragmentation, globalisation and the transition to the digital age, data scarcity and a lack of private investment. it is essential to create a coherent strategic approach at eu level, as well as the appropriate incentives, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of these sectors, enhance their capacities and support the transnational circulation of cultural works.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it promotes the creation of synergies between the cultural and audiovisual sectors, which will help them to tackle the current global challenges, such as the fragmentation of the european market generated by linguistic and cultural diversity. this will help smes in the sector to adapt better to globalisation and the digital transition and overcome the difficulties in accessing credit.
in writing. - european cultural creation and our collective cultural heritage deserve the greatest attention and a cross-cutting approach. beyond the intangible dimension of our cultural wealth, the contribution of the cultural and creative sectors to european gdp is 2.6%, with an increasing trend, which is remarkable given the current context of economic crisis, with more than 5 million jobs created. the commission's attempt to create bridges between the cultural and audiovisual sectors in the creative europe programme is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. the report by mrs silvia costa deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the creative europe programme. as we must keep the motto 'united in diversity', i believe that the protection and promotion of creativity and culture is fundamental. the new creative europe programme for 2014-2020 is based on values such as pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries. the contribution of the cultural and creative sectors to european gdp is 2.6%, with an increasing trend, with more than 5 million jobs created, which is remarkable given the current context of economic crisis. i believe that by bringing together culture and media in this programme, we are creating bridges between the cultural and audiovisual sectors by creating an intersectoral strand, which will help them to combat the current global challenges, the fragmentation of the european market generated by linguistic and cultural diversity and the need to transition to the digital system. however, we must not forget the specific nature of each sector and its specific characteristics and needs.
in writing. − the creative europe programme replaces the media, culture and media mundus programmes and aims to fund cultural and artistic activities in the eu (such as literary translations, video games, plays, film co-productions, subtitling, dubbing and audio-description of audiovisual works). a worrying change in the new programme is the introduction of the idea of a transition from a system of grants to non-repayable funds to a system of bank loans, with the eu budget as guarantor, called the 'loan guarantee mechanism', for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises active in the cultural sector, micro cultural organisations and ngos in the sector. the concept of 'cultural industries' and the commodification of culture inherent in it are prevalent in this report, as indeed in the eu's overall approach to cultural issues. no measures are proposed to reverse the trend, which has been evident in recent years, of concentration of funds by making these programmes available to a few dozen countries and cultural producers; no measures are proposed to promote a fairer distribution of the available funds between countries and between cultural operators. we therefore could not support this report. this programme could be of added importance in a context of financial suffocation of the sector and of crushing cuts in several countries, such as portugal. unfortunately, it's a long way from that.
in writing. − the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, with its pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, as well as to strengthen its social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries. to this end, the eu protects and promotes tangible and intangible heritage and ensures that the cultural dimension is taken into account in all policies. the contribution of the cultural and creative sectors to european gdp is 2.6%, with an increasing trend, which is remarkable given the current context of economic crisis, with more than 5 million jobs created. i voted in favour of this proposal, in which the commission puts forward a proposal to realise the full potential of the creative and cultural sectors in terms of growth, competitiveness and job creation, and in terms of protecting and promoting european cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. − culture and creativity are important for strengthening the sense of belonging to the european identity and the path towards social inclusion, democratic pluralism and dialogue between cultures. for these reasons, the creative europe programme, which comprises two independent programmes, one for culture and one for media, and a cross-sectoral strand, will provide financial support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the cultural and creative sectors through a new guarantee mechanism that will facilitate access to credit. with a budget of over 1.4 billion, this new regulatory framework will promote the mobility of artists and their works and enable the necessary adaptation to the digital age. in addition, films, short films, videos, documentaries and video games may also receive support from the creative europe programme.
in writing. − the creative europe programme replaces the media, culture and media mundus programmes and aims to fund cultural and artistic activities in the eu such as literary translations, video games, plays, film co-productions, subtitling, dubbing and audio-description of audiovisual works for the period 2014-2020. the worrying change in the new programme is the embryonic idea of a transition from a system of grants to non-repayable funds to a system of bank loans, backed by the eu budget, the so-called loan guarantee mechanism for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises active in the cultural sector, micro cultural organisations and ngos in the sector. the report considers this scheme to be advantageous to companies, considering that they will find more favourable financing conditions, which we consider worrying because it distorts and weakens support for culture, and furthermore pushes these cultural structures into debt situations by borrowing instead of strengthening them by granting subsidies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that the commission's europe for citizens proposal for the period 2014-2020, following on from the current programme, is, despite a relatively modest budget, one of the most visible programmes of the union. the objective of the programme is to strengthen memory and enhance civic participation capacity at union level and the programme remains the only one exclusively dedicated to promoting these objectives at european level. the commission claims to have consulted the main interested parties. however, despite the important similarities between the current and future programmes, the commission has surprisingly and without any justification made a small but significant change to its proposal: provides article 352 tfeu as the sole legal basis for the programme. the article in question provides for a special legislative procedure, namely the approval procedure, which gives the european parliament only the choice between accepting or rejecting, but not amending the text. in this procedure, the council of the european union has been given the lead role. i therefore regret the council and commission's position of rejecting successive attempts by the european parliament to amend the text.
in writing. − this programme is the only one to strengthen memory and improve civic participation capacity at european level. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to strengthen the future potential of projects and not just their high impact in the short term, to ensure that the role of sports organisations is highlighted in the proposal and to ensure, as far as possible, geographical balance in the distribution of funds.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has made a decisive contribution to putting citizens at the centre of european policies, bringing the union closer to its citizens, notably by introducing a new dimension of participatory democracy and seeking to foster crossborder debate on eu policies. in the present time, when we are experiencing not only an economic, financial and social crisis but also a crisis of confidence, it is more important than ever to make citizens aware of the role and achievements of the union, seeking to strengthen their sense of belonging to the union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the hire or hire of furniture, the hire or hire of furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the furniture, the interior, the furniture, the interior, the interior, the interior, the interior, the interior, etc. although i disagree with the choice of the legal basis, which is intended to reduce the degree of involvement of parliament in the legislative process, i voted in favour of the compromise reached, in order to ensure that the new programme does not suffer any delays.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the europe for citizens programme contributes to increased civic participation at union level, being the only existing project dedicated to promoting these objectives at european level.
in writing. − the participation of citizens of the member states in initiatives and movements at european level has the solidarity merit of awakening them to realities that go beyond their national spheres and of motivating them to participate in this context. i hope the programme is a success. more than great founding projects, what the union needs is concrete steps towards true knowledge between people and peoples. it is no use proclaiming what does not exist; it is more sensible to seek that closeness and cooperation be forged at the levels closest to concrete life and less in the superstructures of political power. it is in the capacity to build neighbourhoods, to share projects, to create complicity that europe can be built. in reading the minority opinion emanating from the gue group, which is trying to make us believe that soviet totalitarianism is of a different kind, i cannot help but consider the extent to which the communist parties, especially in western europe, are still far from being able to recognize the scale of the monstrosity which they defended as a model of society until the fall of the soviet union and which some still advocate.
in writing. − the report by mr hannu takkula deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the europe for citizens programme for the period 2014-2020. this is one of the most visible programmes under consideration by the european parliament's committee on culture and education. this programme has a relatively modest budget (estimated at eur 229 million) but is of great importance as it is the only one exclusively aimed at strengthening european memory and enhancing the capacity for civic participation at union level. we must not forget the history, identity and objectives of the union. we must encourage debate, reflection and networking. i voted in favour because i want to continue to encourage the democratic and civic participation of citizens at union level, by improving their understanding of the union's policy-making process and by promoting opportunities for societal participation and volunteering at union level.
in writing. - this report is still a bit hypocritical. the eu that launches charm campaigns, or rather propaganda, designed to convince citizens that their participation is valuable and useful, is the same eu that avoids and refuses citizens' participation in such fundamental issues as the approval of treaties. it is the same eu that every day deprives workers and peoples of their rights and imposes on them a degradation of living conditions of a civilizational dimension. it is 215 million euros that will be spent over the next seven years to convince citizens, to instill in them a sense of belonging, which admittedly is not shared by the majority - which will only tend to worsen if this path is followed. in addition, 25% of the funding for this programme is devoted to strand 1, which includes the most despicable objects of history rewriting, of a deeply reactionary character, and anti-communism. this report states that this aspect should be strengthened. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of continuing the europe for citizens programme for the period 2014-2020, because deepening european citizenship is a fundamental requirement for the european project and for the effective political consolidation of the union. european citizenship, as established by the maastricht treaty and developed in the treaty of lisbon, is the essential basis for citizens' recognition of the democratic legitimacy of the union's institutions. the 'europe for citizens' programme therefore makes a positive contribution to the building of european citizenship by creating conditions for improving the capacity of citizens of the union to participate in civic life. the programme now to be launched for the period 2014-2020 should be qualitatively improved over the previous programme now ending and become more effective in pursuing its objectives. european citizenship and civic participation of citizens must remain the union's permanent commitments, especially at a time of crisis when radical political movements are gaining prominence in europe and threatening the democratic values on which the union is founded.
in writing. − the commission's europe for citizens proposal for the period 2014-2020 is, despite its modest budget compared to other programmes under discussion, one of the most publicly recognised programmes under consideration in parliament's committee on culture and education. the objective of the programme is to strengthen memory and enhance civic participation capacity at union level and the programme remains the only one exclusively dedicated to promoting these objectives at european level. the legal basis proposed excludes parliament from the process of negotiating the content. parliament cannot agree with this situation, and although the programme has been improved and its existence is important, i voted in favour of rejecting this proposal. it is requested that the proposal be resubmitted with the legal basis of the previous programme, which allowed parliament to be involved in the process of amending its content. given the tight work schedule, and to ensure that the new programme does not suffer delays, the rapporteur is now submitting his comments on the content, so that the new proposal can be adopted at the beginning of 2013, allowing a smooth transition from the current to the new programme.
in writing. - european citizenship was established by the maastricht treaty signed in 1992, although there were already rights inherent in being born in or having citizenship of another european country. the concept of european citizenship complements the concept of national citizenship and does not replace it. i support this report because i believe that it is essential to have more debate at local, regional and national level on issues relating to the european union, and that such debate should contribute to a broad understanding of the european project. i also believe that a stronger and more united europe can only be built through the involvement of citizens and civil society organisations, and it is important that everyone works together in the european union's policy-making process.
in writing. − even if people feel that the eu is contributing to the withdrawal of their rights, even if they don't identify with the project, the eu has decided that it will spend 215 million over the next 7 years to convince and force people to nurture a sense of belonging and to feel the values of this capitalist integration project that is the eu. it's an aberration to want to impose an identity on yourself. 25% of the funding for this programme is devoted to strand 1, which is devoted to anti-communist propaganda, and which, moreover, parliament has said in this report that it should be strengthened. it is the falsification of historical reality, equating fascism with communism, trying to criminalize and outlaw not only communist movements but all those who reject this system, whitewashing nazi-fascism, concealing the class nature of fascism and concealing that anti-fascism is and was at the core of the action and liberation struggle of the communists, for which millions gave their lives. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report. parliament must be involved. in addition, in the fields of energy and telecommunications, there is no list of projects of common interest to finance, which may give the commission too much discretion. i am also sorry to say that, although the treaty states that the transeuropean transport networks must, on the one hand, establish links between all the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and territorial cohesion, as a citizen of an outermost region, i must also point out that one of the objectives also mentioned is to overcome the obstacles which prevent certain regions or states from being fully integrated into the european networks. in the case of the outermost regions, although our connection with the european continent is limited to air and sea transport, the truth is that this group of regions, despite their specificities being the subject of article 349 of the treaty, are always discouraged by any intention on the part of the commission to benefit from the means of transport and communication between these regions and the rest of the european territory.
in writing. − this regulation establishing the connecting europe facility plays a key role in the objective of growth and competitiveness in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications. this new connecting europe facility will have a budget of around €29.3 billion over the next seven years. the transport sector will get the largest share of the budget, €23.2 billion, of which €10 billion has been transferred from the cohesion fund to be spent exclusively in member states eligible for funding from this fund, such as portugal. the energy sector will receive €5.12 billion to modernise, develop infrastructure and strengthen the security and supply of the union. the telecommunications sector will have €1 billion for the roll-out of broadband and digital service infrastructures. the new rules adopted are designed to simplify the allocation of funds to priority projects in these three sectors and to improve the integration of cohesion countries. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns. to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy and transport infrastructure. the connecting europe facility aims to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of energy, transport and information and communication technologies (ict). i would draw particular attention to this mechanism for supporting islands and outermost regions such as the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french outermost regions, whose specific requirements in terms of energy infrastructure must be taken into account. in conclusion, we must consolidate and expand our energy and transport infrastructures while implementing internal market legislation and strengthening competition rules, and we must design our legislation in such a way as to protect consumers and ensure a flexible market.
in writing. - the connecting europe facility will operate in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications and will have a budget of around €29.3 billion for the next seven years. the transport sector is the one with the largest share of the budget, €23.2 billion, of which €10 billion was transferred from the cohesion fund to be spent exclusively in the member states eligible for funding from this fund, as is the case in portugal. since the new rules are designed to simplify the granting of funds to priority projects in these three sectors and to improve the integration of cohesion countries, i can only agree.
in writing. the report by mr hannu takkula, mrs adina-ioana vălean, mr dominique riquet and mrs inés ayala sender deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing the connecting europe facility. the connecting europe facility aims to focus resources on projects with european added value in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure. i believe that creating a single instrument covering all three sectors will reduce the administrative costs of managing the programme. i also believe it is essential to promote and stimulate synergies between energy, transport and telecommunications. transparent and simplified management contributes to a more effective european funding for the union's major transport, energy and ict policy priorities.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation establishes the connecting europe facility and lays down the conditions, methods and procedures for granting eu financial assistance to trans-european networks, in particular to projects considered to be of common interest in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors. the funds made available to the facility are, of course, a small part of the identified investment needs. the much-touted 'leverage' option of this money will channel public money mainly to large private networks and to the (well-known) public-private partnerships. it will make the eu budget inflate financial markets through the miraculous 'innovative financial instruments'. the preferential concentration of projects of common interest in the large central countries, to the detriment of the peripheral countries, is also evident. the cohesion fund will be withdrawn from this mechanism, which is supposedly based on the objective of deepening the single market. this mechanism is part of and contributes to the logic of liberalization and privatization of strategic sectors of the economy. by predominantly satisfying the interests and needs of a few major powers and their economic groups, this mechanism will accentuate, rather than combat, inequalities and asymmetries. that is more than enough reason for us to vote against.
in writing. − the regulation proposing the creation of a connecting europe facility aims to concentrate resources on projects with european added value in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure for the creation of integrated european networks, ensuring a high level and equitable performance of these infrastructures throughout the union, to centrise, simplify and make conditional the allocation of funds allocated to this regulation throughout the union, exploiting synergies between the three sectors simultaneously, to judiciously share resources between direct aid and the participation of new financial instruments, to associate the market and to multiply the efficiency of european credits, and to improve the financial, technical and operational integration of cohesion countries by integrating part of the cef funds under the cohesion fund rules in the field of transport. in view of the above and because i agree with all these objectives and am aware of the potential for the azores, in particular the creation of a commercial maritime transport network, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the cef is a pan-european financial instrument which aims to bring the single european transport area to life. in order to make access to finance more flexible and easier, in coordination with the structural and investment funds, the cef has a dual network with specific objectives, deadlines and funding for the main and secondary networks. in recognition of the difficulties in implementing large-scale projects in cohesion countries, eur 10 billion has been specifically allocated to the cef to be used only in the core network and/or in horizontal actions in the eligible countries. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new financial instruments. for this reason, i see this financial instrument as complementary to the erdf and the cohesion fund, since while the former will support investment in transport infrastructure, the eff will allow support for transport and intelligence systems, which increase their efficiency and safety, and support for motorways of the sea.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation establishes the connecting europe facility and lays down the conditions for granting union financial assistance to trans-european networks, in particular to projects considered to be of common interest in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors. the objectives include a 20% reduction in ghg emissions compared with 1990, a 20% increase in energy efficiency and a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy by 2020, all of which remain important. this regulation also lays down the allocation of resources under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which, out of the eur 33,242 million allocated to the mechanism, allocates eur 5,850 million to the energy sector and eur 26,250 million to the transport sector, of which eur 11,305 million will be transferred from the cohesion fund to be spent in accordance with this regulation. we cannot agree to withdraw cohesion funds for the purpose of deepening the single market by transferring public money to large private and public-private transport networks. it is clear that the move under way is intended to contribute to greater liberalization in the sectors concerned, with the railway, energy and postal and telecommunications sectors currently being the ones targeted by economic interests.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that the current challenges facing the completion of the trans-european transport network are well known: a significant delay in the completion of many projects, difficulties in financing projects in times of economic crisis, lack of coordination between the different centrally and decentrally managed financing instruments, and a lack of information and statistical data on project financing, in particular on financial support from the structural and cohesion funds and the european investment bank. in my view, the pre-identification of represented projects of common interest, based on a methodology with common criteria for the whole network and all its modes of transport, is a crucial element of the new policy. it helps to understand the structure and promotes strategic and conceptual planning in order to integrate all regions equitably and in accordance with transport needs. it will also help to avoid arbitrary decisions. it is the european dimension that should count for transeuropean networks and not strictly national, regional or local lists of requests. in my view, the underlying methodology proposed by the commission is sound and balanced.
in writing. − the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns. to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy and transport infrastructure. the policy on the trans-european transport network (ten-t) aims to provide the infrastructure necessary for the smooth functioning of the internal market and the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs, while supporting the right of all eu citizens to free movement within the territory of the member states. in conclusion, we must consolidate and expand our energy and transport infrastructures while implementing internal market legislation and strengthening competition rules, and we must design our legislation in such a way as to protect consumers and ensure a flexible market.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the most significant projects of the european union, since it is the basis of mobility for the common market, but also for european citizens, indirectly affecting economic, social and territorial cohesion and the creation of economic growth and employment. that is why it is imperative that it operates in an agile manner.
in writing. the report by mr georgios koumoutsakos and mr ismail ertug deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network. this is a very important project in the european union. the transeuropean transport network is indispensable for the common market and for the mobility of eu citizens. it contributes to economic, social and territorial cohesion and to the creation of economic growth and employment. transport is the backbone of a thriving economy and a key to social cohesion and integration in our society. it is essential to ensure that all regions of the european union are competitive in the european market. an accessible and efficient transport infrastructure is essential for this. from an environmental point of view, we know that in urban areas transport causes problems of congestion, noise and air pollution, with a negative effect on air quality and the quality of life in cities. the demand for transport is very sensitive and so we have to offer the public convincing alternatives to enable the necessary changes.
in writing. - this regulation aims to develop a trans-european transport network, comprising rail, inland waterway, road, sea, air and multimodal transport infrastructures, with the aim of creating a 'single european transport area', which will be the backbone of the common market. these objectives, which favour some large countries in particular, will take some eur 11 billion out of the cohesion fund over the next seven years, which will be transferred from the public domain to the private sector either directly or through public-private partnerships. territorial cohesion is considered a priority here. however, we cannot accept that funding for the overarching cohesion objectives (economic and social components) is withdrawn at a time of crisis, when the 2014-2020 mff has been reduced in cohesion amounts by 8,4% compared to the previous period, when it needed to be increased. we have always said that new cohesion objectives, such as territorial cohesion, require additional resources, and that the development of the transeuropean transport network cannot be achieved by concentrating public funding on the private sector, nor by withdrawing funding from the fund which enables the regions to close the gap between them economically and socially.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation approving the union's guidelines for the development of the transeuropean transport network because there can be no true european single market without an integrated european transport network. the creation of a trans-european transport network, conceived, designed and implemented at european level in the interests of the member states and the union but above all in the interests of citizens and businesses, is an essential condition for the deepening and integration of the internal market and, consequently, for economic growth and job creation in the union. the rapid and efficient movement of people and goods within the union is a requirement for the competitiveness of the union and its enterprises, and very significantly of portuguese enterprises, not only in the internal market but also on a global scale. and this is a reality that cannot be ignored, especially in the current context of economic crisis. in the case of portugal and spain, this project is of particular importance, given the 'decentration' of the iberian peninsula and the pyrenees wall.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the key projects of the european union. it is the backbone of the common market, indispensable for the mobility of eu citizens, for economic, social and territorial cohesion and for the creation of economic growth and jobs. the ten-t has identified the following problems: a significant delay in the realisation of many ten-t projects, difficulties in project financing in times of economic crisis, lack of coordination between the different centrally and decentrally managed funding instruments, and a lack of information and statistical data on project financing, in particular on financial support from the structural and cohesion funds and the eib. i voted in favour of this proposal, which seeks to overcome all these problems by creating a new dynamic for the implementation of projects.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is a union policy which sets out the guidelines for the different modes of transport. this defines the main and secondary networks and the components that are part of each mode of transport. the planning, development and operation of the ten-t is in line with the transport white paper and should contribute to strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion. together with the list of infrastructures present on the main and secondary networks, the ten-t sets out the definitions and elements to be taken into account by the connecting europe facility. it is also stressed that the outermost regions still need to optimise their accessibility for goods and passengers, including maritime and air transport, with the european continent in order to allow their integration into the internal market. the union's links with third countries are also being strengthened. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important asset for the european union and the creation of a single transport area.
in writing. - this regulation aims to develop a transeuropean transport network, comprising rail, inland waterway, road, sea, air and multimodal transport infrastructures, with the aim of creating a single european transport area, which will be the backbone of the common market. these objectives, which favour some large countries in particular, will take some eur 11 billion out of the cohesion fund over the next seven years, which will be transferred from the public domain to the private sector either directly or through public-private partnerships. territorial cohesion is considered a priority here. however, we cannot accept that funding for the overarching cohesion objectives (economic and social components) is withdrawn at a time of crisis, when the 2014-2020 mff has been reduced in cohesion amounts by 8,4% compared to the previous period, when it needed to be increased. we disagree.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that the commission proposes the creation of a new structure for the ess, with a view to improving coordination and partnership in a clear pyramid structure. one aspect of this rationalization is the concentration of comitology powers in the hands of the esc. i do not think that this alignment exercise raises any problems for parliament. its main objective is to replace the regulatory procedure with scrutiny by delegated acts in the nine existing legislative texts. as regards the remaining cases of the old comitology (with a right of parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. without the possibility of a veto) in these nine legislative acts, which have been practically retained as implementing acts and were not included in the commission proposal, i consider that they are not problematic for parliament, given that they concern formats/forms of transmission or derogations for some member states. in fact, these are usually questions reserved for implementing acts. i would like to point out that some amendments are necessary in order to bring back the wording agreed in the common understanding between the three institutions on delegated acts.
in writing. − i agree with the amendments made in the report to bring back the wording agreed in the joint understanding between the three institutions on delegated acts. i also believe that the period of delegation should not be indefinite, and i therefore also support the proposal to limit it to five years, tacitly extended by periods of equal duration.
in writing. − statistics on agriculture and fisheries are important indicators for gauging the state of the respective sectors and the success of the policies implemented. the compatibility of legislative acts with the treaties in force is required by the need for systematic uniformity, intelligibility and coherence of the union legal order.
in writing. the report by mr de castro deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics. the commission proposal aims to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional context, while at the same time seeking to rationalise the european statistical system. in 2009, the european parliament defined the european statistical system (ess) as a partnership between the european statistical authority, which is the commission (eurostat), and the national statistical institutes (nsis) and other national authorities responsible in each member state for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. with a view to improving coordination and partnership in a clear pyramid structure, the commission proposes a new structure. the esc will be the highest policy-making body and will concentrate comitology powers.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics, taking account of the references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, in the light of the criteria laid down in the treaty, and aligning them with the new institutional context. the commission proposal also aims at streamlining the european statistical system, taking into account a partnership between the european statistical authority (eurostat) and the national statistical institutes and other national authorities responsible for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. one aspect of this rationalisation is the concentration of comitology powers in the hands of the european statistical system committee. the report shall include a standard clause on the preparation by the commission of a report on the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the report and the amendments it contains raise no major problems, which is why we voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and surveillance of the common agricultural policy, as i considered that the compromise text resulting from the trilogues significantly improves on the commission's initial proposal. in this particular case, i would like to highlight as a particularly positive factor the fact that the horizontal regulation lays down reasonable rules on expenditure in the agricultural advisory system, the management and control systems to be implemented by the member states, the system of cross-compliance and the clearance of accounts, so that they are feasible without any increase in complexity or bureaucracy.
in writing. - this report aims to bring european legislation in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics into line with the lisbon treaty. the commission also proposes a new structure for the european statistical system. a very technical report, which i support.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics, taking account of the references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, in the light of the criteria laid down in the treaty, and aligning them with the new institutional context. the commission proposal also aims at streamlining the european statistical system, taking into account a partnership between the european statistical authority (eurostat) and the national statistical institutes and other national authorities responsible for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. the report shall include a standard clause on the commission's preparation of a report on the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. the report and the amendments it contains raise no major problems, which is why we voted in favour of it.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation with a view to preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary watercourses and ensuring the rational use of water resources. in 2003, the parties to the convention expressed their willingness to allow countries outside the unece region to become parties to the convention in order to promote cooperation on watersheds worldwide. in 2003, the european community participated in the meeting of the parties, which adopted the amendment allowing any state which is a member of the united nations to accede to the convention upon approval by the parties. with the amendments in force, the convention will be especially important for countries bordering the unece region, such as afghanistan, china, iran and some central asian states. in the light of the above, i recommend that parliament approve the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention in order to open the convention to the whole world and to allow accession by countries not covered by unece who so wish.
in writing. − with the amendments in force, the convention will be of particular importance for countries bordering the unece region, such as afghanistan, china, iran and some central asian states. the adoption of articles 25 and 26 of the helsinki convention opens the convention to the whole world and allows accession by countries not covered by unece who so wish. the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the countries members of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, since the adoption of the amendments to the helsinki convention will allow any state which is a member of the united nations to accede to the convention with the approval of the parties, with a view to preventing and controlling pollution of transboundary watercourses and ensuring the efficient use of water resources.
in writing. − the protection and use of international watercourses and lakes (the helsinki convention) aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the member countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the eu has been a party to the convention since 1995. in 2003, the parties to the convention expressed their willingness to allow countries outside the unece region to become parties to the convention in order to promote cooperation on watersheds worldwide. since this amendment lacks the ep's opinion, mine in particular is in favour.
in writing. the report by mr matthias groote deals with the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the eu, of the amendment of articles 25 and 26 of the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes. the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the countries members of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the eu is currently one of the few parties that has not yet formally accepted the amendment of articles 25 and 26 in accordance with article 218 (6) tfeu. the 6th world water forum called on the commission to promote the entry into force of amendments to the helsinki convention in order to extend this instrument to countries other than those that are members of the unece. i therefore believe that the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention should be approved in order to open the convention to the whole world and to allow accession by countries not covered by unece who so wish.
in writing. − the convention of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes aims to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure the rational use of water resources through bilateral or multilateral cooperation by unece countries. the eu has been a party to the convention since 1995. since water resources are often shared natural borders between neighbouring countries, they must cooperate and adopt measures for the sharing of their protection and environmental monitoring, as well as measures for their rational use, prevention and control of pollutants, information exchange and alarm systems. an amendment to the convention was proposed and adopted in 2003 allowing countries outside the unece region that are un members to become parties to the convention in order to promote cooperation in the field of watersheds by taking measures for the effective protection of these resources worldwide. in 2012, the amendment was formally accepted by two thirds of the parties, but not by the eu, as formal acceptance of this amendment requires the approval of the european parliament - which we have now voted in favour of.
in writing. − in april 2013, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the acceptance of the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes (the helsinki convention). the convention aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary watercourses and to ensure rational use of water resources by the countries members of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). in 2003, the parties to the convention expressed their willingness to allow countries outside the region covered to become parties to the convention in order to promote cooperation on watersheds worldwide. the convention, as amended, will be of particular importance for countries bordering the unece region, such as afghanistan, china, iran and some central asian states. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report which approves the amendment of articles 25 and 26 of the convention in order to open the convention to the whole world and to allow the accession of countries not covered by unece.
in writing. − the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes provides a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution in these watercourses. it is recommended that countries outside the unece region be allowed to become parties to this convention in order to promote cooperation on watersheds worldwide. in this way, the convention becomes especially important for countries such as afghanistan, china, iran and some central asian countries. i am in favour of adopting this recommendation because i believe that pollution should be minimised.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that iter is a unique large-scale project in the world. with the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of the international fusion energy organisation iter (eu, japan, russia, usa, china, republic of korea and india) for the joint implementation of the iter project, the community has committed itself to hosting and leading the construction of iter and, it is expected, its future operation. in my view, fusion energy research and development will have to overcome the reduction in the european union's nuclear power powers. this barrier can be effectively addressed by exploiting synergies between the research activities of international participants, member states and the private sector, as well as between scientific disciplines and technology sectors. this international effort will also help to strengthen the framework for fusion research and innovation, and is essential for the long-term future of the fusion programme. in order to keep the temperature increase to 2 oc, the reduction in global emissions will result in a limited use of fossil fuel-based energy. in this context, iter is a key element of energy research as well as of the strategic energy technology plan.
in writing. iter is the largest international cooperation project led by europe involving research centres and universities, with great importance for the development of scientific research. the council's conclusions are in line with the amounts proposed by the commission of eur 2.707 million for the iter programme. however, i draw your attention to the commitment of 4 billion euros foreseen in international contracts that we are obliged to pay. this information was confirmed by the legal services and the european commission. i understand that the rapporteur reflects in his opinion the position of mff interim report in placing iter above the ceilings of the mff so as to ensure adequate funding for this project while at the same time protecting other eu programmes, mainly in the research field, from possible redeployments in favour of iter. however, this is depending on future negotiations on mff. due to the various problems in the past in terms of management it is important to ensure sound financial management in order to avoid cost overruns in the future. the european parliament has an important role to play by supervising and controlling the development of the programme.
in writing. − investing in research and development (r&d) is always a worthwhile project. investing in research into technologies with an energy potential that respects the environment, including the development and exploitation of fusion energy, can only be done with my approval.
in writing. − the report by mr remek deals with the proposal for a council decision adopting the supplementary research programme for the iter project (2014-2018). iter is a worldwide project on the establishment of the international fusion energy organization iter (eu, japan, russia, usa, china, republic of korea and india). fusion is a process that occurs in nature. unlike nuclear fission, which releases energy when a heavy atom splits into two lighter elements, fusion releases energy when the nuclei of two light atoms join together, for example, when two hydrogen nuclei fuse to form a single new atom. this process releases a huge amount of energy without emitting any greenhouse gases. unlike in fission, there is no chain reaction in fusion. fuel is inexhaustible, as it can be derived directly from hydrogen isotopes. i believe that budgetary control and more economic management must be ensured by improving the awarding of contracts. equally important is the evaluation in the context of the coordination of project and european contribution quality assurance and control.
in writing. − the objective of the proposal for a council decision is to define the financing scheme applicable to the eu contribution to the iter project for the period 2014 to 2018 through a 'supplementary research programme' under the euratom treaty. the council follows the recommendations made by the commission that eu funding for the iter project after 2013 should proceed outside the multiannual financial framework (mff). it is therefore proposed that the supplementary research programme be set up. in the proposal for a council decision, this 'programme shall be financed by contributions from the member states, based on a mobilisation rate applied to each member state's gni as defined for the purpose of calculating the contribution to the general budget of the eu'. the rapporteur believes that the iter project should be financed by the mff and through eu own resources. the rapporteur also proposes to increase the budget of the iter project to cope with unforeseen events and in the name of the advancement of scientific research. we share the view that scientific knowledge and technological development must be advanced in this field too. but we cannot ignore the colossal amount of resources that have been channeled into this project, under natural and understandable criticism. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − in 2012 the council decided to consult parliament on the adoption of the supplementary research programme for the iter project (2014-2018). the european economic and social committee called for more investment in r & d of technologies with an energy potential that respects the environment, including the development and exploitation of fusion energy. the eesc also strongly opposed the commission's proposal to withdraw the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project from the multiannual financial framework. fusion releases energy when the nuclei of two light atoms join together, for example, when two hydrogen nuclei fuse to form a single new atom. this process releases a huge amount of energy without emitting any greenhouse gases (ghgs). the strategy for the development of fusion as a credible option for commercial ghg-free energy production will respect a roadmap with important milestones for achieving the 2050 electricity production target. unlike in fission, there is no chain reaction in fusion. i voted in favour of this proposal which aims at producing an inexhaustible and environmentally friendly fuel.
in writing. − the euratom research and training programme (2014-2018) focuses on research in the nuclear energy (fusion and fission) and radiation protection sectors. iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) is a key element of energy research as well as of the strategic energy technology plan. the rapporteur argues that the iter project is valuable because it explains how iter is a possible energy source for the future that is not only safe and sustainable but also highly economically viable for the european union. the reintegration of iter into the multiannual financial framework allows the european parliament to have better control over the project, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the objective of the proposal for a council decision is to define the financing scheme applicable to the eu contribution to the iter project for the period 2014 to 2018 through a supplementary research programme under the euratom treaty. the council follows the recommendations made by the commission in its communication on a budget for europe 2020, which proposes that eu funding for the iter project should proceed outside the mff after 2013. it therefore proposes the creation of a supplementary research programme. in the proposal for a council decision, this programme is financed by contributions from the member states on the basis of a mobilisation rate applied to the gni of each member state as defined for the purpose of calculating the contribution from the gni's own resources to the general budget of the eu (article 3). however, the rapporteur considers that the iter project should be financed by the mff and through the union's own resources. the rapporteur also proposes to increase the budget of the iter project to cope with unforeseen events and in the name of the advancement of scientific research.
in writing. - i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that the horizon 2020 programme offers the union numerous opportunities in the field of research and innovation. this is true both for nuclear research and for other aspects of research in the union. the commission's initial intention was to present horizon 2020 as a common framework programme, and it is therefore appropriate that it also covers nuclear research. the contribution of nuclear researchers to all aspects of union research remains of key importance, which is why research should also be included in horizon 2020. the three pillars of horizon 2020 are scientific excellence, industrial leadership and addressing the major societal challenges facing the union and its citizens, all of which are reinforced by the inclusion of nuclear research and researchers. the exclusion of nuclear research from the horizon 2020 framework programme would therefore undermine the union's achievement of these objectives. i conclude by saying that the objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme should be incorporated into nuclear research as much as in other research areas.
in writing. − horizon 2020 offers the union numerous opportunities in research and innovation. this is true both for nuclear research and for other aspects of research in the union. the contribution of nuclear researchers to all aspects of union research remains of key importance, which is why horizon 2020 also includes research. the three pillars of horizon 2020 are scientific excellence, industrial leadership and addressing the major societal challenges facing the union and its citizens, all of which are reinforced by the inclusion of nuclear research and researchers. the exclusion of nuclear research from the horizon 2020 framework programme would therefore undermine the union's achievement of these objectives. whether or not a member state decides to use nuclear energy, all member states can and should benefit from nuclear research and the european added value of the euratom programme. the euratom programme should therefore ensure, at all levels, the most efficient use of resources and avoid duplication of efforts in promoting excellence in the nuclear field.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is a common framework programme and therefore also covers nuclear research. the contribution of nuclear researchers to all aspects of union research remains of key importance, which is why research should also be included in horizon 2020. the three pillars of horizon 2020 are scientific excellence, industrial leadership and addressing the major societal challenges facing the union and its citizens, all of which are reinforced by the inclusion of nuclear research and researchers. the exclusion of nuclear research from the horizon 2020 framework programme would therefore undermine the union's achievement of these objectives.
in writing. the report by mr skinner is on the proposal for a council regulation on the european atomic energy community's research and training programme (2014-2018) which complements horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation i believe that in the second pillar of the horizon 2020 framework programme it is essential to avoid a shortage of nuclear skills. we must therefore ensure that the working conditions of researchers are improved to prevent brain drain and ensure that all aspects of merger and division remain within the union. the role of the european research council (erc) will be important in attracting and maintaining research excellence in europe and its role should be recognised.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the research and training programme (euratom programme) for the period 2014 to 2018. it lays down the rules for participation, including participation in programmes of funding bodies managing funds awarded under this regulation and in activities jointly developed by this regulation and the horizon 2020 framework programme. the overall objective of the euratom programme is to improve nuclear safety and security and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in an efficient and secure manner. the euratom programme's actions, whether direct or indirect, have specific objectives which, in general, deserve our agreement. the rapporteur proposes to include other research areas such as medical research in the general objectives of the euratom programme. it stresses that this programme must maintain the 'highest level of working conditions for those working directly with nuclear materials'. it should also promote the increased participation of european scientists and the 'hiring of scientists from third countries' while tackling the 'brain drain' of nuclear scientists outside the eu, and should support the priorities of the horizon 2020 framework programme. the same considerations apply as we have made to the remek report. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − horizon 2020 offers the union numerous opportunities in research and innovation. this is true both for nuclear research and for other aspects of research in the union. the commission's initial intention was to present horizon 2020 as a common framework programme, and it is therefore appropriate that it also covers nuclear research. the contribution of nuclear researchers to all aspects of union research remains of key importance, which is why research should also be included in horizon 2020. the three pillars of horizon 2020 are scientific excellence, industrial leadership and addressing the major societal challenges facing the union and its citizens, all of which are reinforced by the inclusion of nuclear research and researchers. the exclusion of nuclear research from the horizon 2020 framework programme would therefore undermine the union's achievement of these objectives. i voted in favour of this proposal which covers these aspects.
in writing. − the three pillars of the framework programme for research and innovation - horizon 2020 are scientific excellence, industrial leadership and responding to the major social challenges facing the european union and its citizens. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the outcomes of the energy union strategy. it should be noted that by including the iter project in this programme and in the multiannual financial framework, we ensure that europe remains a leader in fusion research. it is also essential that further support is given to other research projects on the subject, such as the joint european torus, which is where the most accurate information on fusion energy in the eu can be obtained. it is also urgent to improve the working conditions of researchers in order to cope with the increasing brain drain within the eu.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the research and training programme (euratom programme) for the period 2014 to 2018 and lays down the rules for participation in the programme, including participation in programmes of funding bodies managing funds awarded under this regulation and in activities jointly developed by this regulation and the horizon 2020 framework programme. the express objective of the euratom programme is to improve nuclear safety and security and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in a safe, efficient and secure manner. the rapporteur proposes to include other research areas such as medical research in the general objectives of the euratom programme. it stresses that this programme must maintain the highest level of working conditions for those working directly with nuclear materials. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's nuclear safety is not compromised by the use of nuclear weapons. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing rules to include the use of the eu's financial instruments.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the commission's proposal for the overall allocation for 2014-2020 for the instrument for nuclear safety cooperation shows a growth of 5.8% at 2011 prices and that eu funds will be made available through strategy papers and multiannual indicative programmes, which will set out funding priorities and specific objectives. in my view, the proposal for a regulation put forward by the commission has the positive effect of making the instrument more transparent, flexible and simplified. the legal certainty of icsn beneficiaries will be enhanced and the rules will be harmonised, subject to the common implementing regulation covering all external action instruments. despite the proposed improvements, i would stress the need to ensure better coordination, consistency and complementarity of efforts in the field of nuclear safety within the european union and at national level, but also with other international, local and regional organisations, in order to avoid overlaps and maximise the effects of funding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the committee's proposal and with the amendments made by the rapporteur.
in writing. − the commission has put forward a proposal for a european instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety (icsn) under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. this new instrument will build on the current framework for nuclear cooperation which the eu has been gradually developing since the 1990s. this instrument aims to ensure sufficient means for the union to promote strategic and human security by addressing challenges in the field of nuclear security, radiation protection and nuclear safeguards in all third countries.
in writing. the report by mr krahmer deals with the proposal for a council regulation establishing an instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety. i consider it essential to ensure that the union has sufficient means to promote strategic security and the safety of people by responding to challenges in the field of nuclear safety, radiation protection and nuclear safeguards in all third countries. i also believe that in times of economic difficulties, we must continue to seek to improve sound financial management and the best possible use of eu financial resources.
in writing. − this report focuses on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the new instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety for the period 2014-2020, replacing the existing regulation (300/2007). the aim is to promote 'cooperation and assistance to support the promotion of a high level of nuclear safety and radiation protection and the implementation of effective and efficient safeguards of nuclear materials in third countries'. the objectives of this regulation shall be, inter alia, to: - promote a genuine nuclear safety culture and governance and the management and enforcement of the highest standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection; - responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, decommissioning and rehabilitation of old nuclear power stations and installations in third countries. the rapporteur stresses the importance of long-term environmental protection, the need to ensure that nuclear materials are not diverted to non-civil purposes, and the importance of supporting education and training. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing an instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety and stating the need to find ways of improving the protection and safety of nuclear power stations which are built close to the union's borders, in particular where there is no political cooperation with the union. in this respect, stress tests should be carried out in all member states and third countries to detect potential safety risks and the necessary measures should be taken without delay to avoid these risks.
in writing. − regulation no 300/2007 establishing an instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety expires in december 2013. this report focuses on the proposal for a council regulation establishing the new instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety for the period 2014-2020. this regulation is part of the promotion of cooperation and assistance to support the promotion of a high level of nuclear safety and radiation protection and the implementation of effective and efficient safeguards for nuclear materials in third countries. it sets out as one of the objectives for this regulation the promotion of a true nuclear safety culture and governance and the management and enforcement of the highest standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection. the rapporteur stresses the importance of long-term environmental protection, stresses the need to ensure that nuclear materials are not diverted to non-civilian purposes and underlines the importance of continuing support for the education and training of staff in regulatory bodies, technical support organisations and nuclear operators. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the three countries, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, had old nuclear reactors in operation which, in the opinion of the international community, were too old and could not be adapted to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost. in the context of the negotiations on accession to the european union, the three countries committed themselves to shutting down and subsequently dismantling these nuclear reactors by agreed dates. recognising that early shutdown represents exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens, the european union has committed to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early shutdown. the current proposal also makes a number of simplifications. a single council regulation is provided for for the union's financial support to bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia under the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, instead of the three previous, separate and independent regulations. this regulation does not provide for any exceptions to the financial regulation.
in writing. − the rules in force in the central and eastern european countries before accession were less stringent than the rules applied in the eu at the time. in addition, some of these states were still operating old soviet-made reactors which could not be adapted to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost. for this reason, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria undertook upon accession to dismantle reactors found to be non-compliant. this has required intervention and financial assistance from the eu, which we now approve to be extended over time.
in writing. the report by mr giles chichester deals with the proposal for a council regulation on european union support for nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. the international community considered the old nuclear reactors in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria to be too old and could not be upgraded to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost. so the three countries have committed themselves to shut down and dismantle these nuclear reactors. early closure represents exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens and the european union has therefore committed to providing financial assistance until the end of 2013. the beneficiary member states updated their estimates and found a deficit of 2 500 million in relation to the current available budget at national and programme level. i believe that the commission should carry out, in close cooperation with the member states and beneficiaries, a mid-term and a final evaluation of the achievement of the objectives, the level of results and impacts and the efficiency of the use of resources, adjusting the appropriations allocated to the programme. i also believe that the lack of funding puts the completion of the decommissioning procedures in doubt.
in writing. - the old nuclear reactors that lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria have kept in operation and which, because they are too old, cannot be adapted to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost, are therefore subject to nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in the context of and upon the accession of these three countries to the european union. the eu has committed to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early shutdown, including the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens. the current proposal provides for a number of regulatory simplifications. this is a sensitive issue, given the public health and environmental dangers involved, and we feel it is right that the necessary support should be given to these countries. it is expected that the commission, in cooperation with the member states and beneficiaries, will carry out a mid-term and a final evaluation of the achievement of the objectives and review the appropriateness of the appropriations allocated to the programme. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the three countries, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria, had old nuclear reactors in operation which, in the view of the international community, were too old and could not be adapted to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost. in the context of the negotiations on accession to the european union, the three countries committed themselves to shutting down and subsequently dismantling these nuclear reactors by agreed dates. recognising that early shutdown represents exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens, the european union has committed to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early shutdown. i voted in favour of this report which sets out the modus operandi of this operation.
in writing. − this report aims to extend the period of support for nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in lithuania and slovenia until 2017 and in bulgaria until 2020. it contains the conditionalities and targets that each member state must implement and the commission must assess the progress made. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider safety and support for decommissioning to be essential.
in writing. − old nuclear reactors that lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria keep in operation and which, because they are too old, cannot be adapted to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost, are therefore subject to nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes. the european union has committed itself to provide financial assistance by the end of 2013 for the decommissioning of these reactors and to address the consequences of early closure, including the exceptional social, environmental, economic and financial burdens. the current proposal provides for a number of simplifications: a single council regulation is provided for for the union's financial support to bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia under the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, instead of the three previous regulations. the overall budget allocation for the period 2014-2020 is eur 552 947 000 in current prices and will be allocated as follows: eur 208 503 000 for the kozloduy programme, eur 229 629 000 for the ignalina programme and eur 114 815 000 for the bohunice programme. this is a sensitive issue given the dangers to public health and the environment and we feel it is right that the necessary support should be given for its implementation in a more appropriate way and taking into account human and environmental safety.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. − the on 22 june 2012, the committee on women's rights and gender equality adopted an opinion, of which i am rapporteur, on a regulation laying down common provisions for the various funds. we therefore advocated that gender equality should not be set aside as something isolated, but should be present in a horizontal policy at all levels, and we then, more than a year ago, endorsed our disagreement with the commission on the principle of macro-conditionality, which is dishonest and unfair, and which doubly penalizes the countries with the most difficult social and economic situations, and also penalizes women in these countries, who are demonstrably more vulnerable in times of social decline. it is at least the minimum of democratic principles to let members vote on the amendments they see fit; it also serves to increase transparency about the choices made by individual members.
i am not the one who called the negotiations, the budgetary commitments in the council, a carpet-selling fair. the person who called was the president of the epp, mr joseph daul, whose party represents most of the governments in the council. and we have a very clear case of that here today. because of the british cheque that the united kingdom receives, france demanded compensation, and in a commission proposal this compensation was given in the form of aid, that is, additional money to the european social fund to combat youth unemployment for france, italy and spain. it is scandalous that this additional money did not include portugal, ireland, greece and cyprus, the countries under the programme. in an amendment which i tabled with my colleague elisabeth schroeder and other colleagues from greece and spain, we wanted to correct this situation. and to the first scandal has been added another, which is a decision by the secretariat of this parliament: to prevent us from voting on this amendment. the eurosceptics on this continent do not need more help to be against the union, nor do the young people need more help to emigrate. let us not add to the tragedy already under way another tragedy, namely the bureaucratic indifference of the commission and of parliament itself.
mr president, commissioner, if we approve this cohesion policy, portugal will receive over 21 billion euros over the next seven years, a crucial sum to boost a new dynamic of economic growth and job creation. but this was not an easy process. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiary was granted in the form of a grant of eur [...] per beneficiary. it was a very difficult negotiation between the european institutions, including here in the european parliament. after more than a year and a half of negotiations, more than 2 000 amendments and more than 70 trilogues, we have finally reached an agreement which greatly improves the applicability of the structural funds in my region, madeira. is it a perfect deal? of course not ! is that the deal? of course i did! with this agreement, we are in a position to approve a cohesion policy which will guarantee madeira financing of eur 844 million, which will offset the costs of the outermost regions by eur 30 per inhabitant and ensure the standardisation of co-financing rates at 85%. this agreement will make it possible to finance airport and port infrastructure and the creation of shipping lines, which are essential to reducing our peripheral position in the european union. the priority now is that this package should be adopted here, that it should enter into force quickly and that it can be implemented, thereby promoting a cycle of economic growth and job creation that is capable of restoring hope to the citizens of europe. thank you very much.
we are approving the cohesion policy and its instruments, which are indispensable for overcoming the crisis. in the face of the scarcity of funds available, european funds are crucial for financing growth and employment policies in the eu. many of our problems stem from competitive imbalances within the union, which are the main cause of the external deficits that lead to indebtedness. we are only concerned with maintaining the objectives of reducing regional disparities, especially in the most disadvantaged areas. but we had to fight hard to keep these goals from being compromised. examples are the maintenance of funds for the outermost regions at acceptable levels or their ability to access crossborder cooperation for the first time, creating new export opportunities. i cannot, however, fail to stress our opposition to macro-conditionality. this is perhaps the most negative aspect of the new programme. it is an unacceptable principle that only certain states should be penalised twice or that funds and investment capacity should be withdrawn from a region because of the failure of the member state concerned to comply. thank you very much.
the new european funds do not offer solutions to reverse the growing gap between the biggest beneficiaries of the eu's single market and common policies and the countries with the weakest economies, such as portugal. these funds - now called the structural and investment funds, which correspond to the former structural and cohesion funds - are reduced overall by 8.4% compared with the previous financial framework. in addition, the objectives and scope of funding are becoming more restrictive. macroeconomic conditionality (to be added to the european semester/economic governance and the budget treaty) establishes a permanent blackmail, threatening cuts or suspension of payments in case of non-compliance with the dictates of the eu institutions. a blackmail that increasingly conditions decisions on priorities and how the funds will be implemented decisions that are increasingly outside the institutions of national sovereignty. the aim is, of course, to promote investment in private or privatised infrastructure, or to promote the (well-known) public-private partnerships. the structural and cohesion funds, which for years have been presented as the panacea for all the problems of the weaker economies, are far from compensating for the extremely negative impact of the destruction of their productive apparatus and their growing dependence and subordination.
mr president, i congratulate vice-president viviane reding on her initiative and my fellow rapporteurs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou and evelyn regner on their excellent work in advocating and promoting the balanced representation of men and women in board positions in publicly traded companies. the various calls for self-regulation have not had any significant effect. this proposal is therefore timely and justified. it is justified because, firstly, women represent almost 60% of all university graduates in the union; secondly, despite being highly qualified, women continue to be unjustifiably under-represented on the boards of european companies. and this proposal is timely because at the current rate it would take several decades to eliminate this imbalance. i agree with the objective of a minimum 40% presence of men or women among non-executive directors of listed companies by 2020 and i agree with transparent selection processes with clear and non-discriminatory criteria on the qualifications and competences of candidates regardless of gender. the european parliament is thus sending a clear signal to the council. this is another step in the defence of equality between men and women, which europe has been defending for the last 50 years and of which this parliament should be proud. thank you very much.
the proposal under consideration, although it covers only companies with more than 250 employees and an annual turnover of more than eur 50 million, can help to correct the gender imbalances in decision-making processes. it could be more ambitious, but it is a first step towards ensuring women's access to economic power. the directive also represents a smart investment in business management. it is proven that companies with more women on their boards perform better than those with less female representation in top positions. on the other hand, gender studies have highlighted that women have a different management style, as they avoid risk and favour a long-term perspective. the european parliament's amendments significantly improve the commission's proposal, particularly as regards sanctions, by adding mandatory sanctions rather than merely indicative ones. the financial and economic crisis presents a unique opportunity to make important structural changes in the macroeconomic and financial architecture for global development, reflecting equitable and human rights-based principles and taking into account the perspective of gender equality and women's rights.
i would like to begin by pointing out a mistake which i think some of the speakers have made. and the mistake is this: they are the ones who think that the division of the european institutions into cities and countries should be the same for all types of institutions. we cannot confuse the council, the commission and parliament with the other institutions, because they are constantly interacting, they are constantly interlinked. the political heart of the european union must therefore be based in the same city for practical reasons and for constitutional reasons of better political control. this has nothing to do with the central bank, the court of justice or the administrative agencies because these institutions are independent of the political heart and can therefore be, without any disadvantage, based outside that political heart. secondly, it is said here that we are defending polycentrism, that we want to defend polycentrism, but what is happening at the moment is that the european parliament itself is polycentric, so to speak, and this has costs. in addition to cost, it causes a huge strain on all the people who work in this institution and therefore hinders the exercise of the activity. i would also like to say this: i also congratulate the rapporteurs because, for me, the reason for choosing a single seat should not be a symbolic reason related to the history of europe, nor a practical reason related to costs, but a constitutional reason, a political reason. a parliament which wants to be an effective parliament must have the right to choose the way, the time and the place of its meeting. this is essential. without this parliament will not be able to assert itself, and for those of us who believe, as i do, in greater integration and even in a federal project, this is a sine qua non condition for us to assert ourselves, even if it means disregarding a decision of the court or even the treaties. only when parliament takes its destiny into its own hands will it be able to be a real parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have done before, before the ministerial conferences of the world trade organisation, the committee on international trade of this parliament has decided to adopt a motion for a resolution on the current state of play of the doha development agenda and on the preparations for the 9th industrial conference of the world trade organisation, and this resolution will be voted on tomorrow, thursday, in plenary. in parallel to the ministerial conference in indonesia, and as the commissioner has already made clear, the european parliament is organising a parliamentary conference on the world trade organisation of which we are co-organisers, together with the interparliamentary union, highlighting the importance of a strong and effective parliamentary dimension of the wto as a means of preventing the erosion of public support for open trade and reinforcing the transparency and legitimacy of the organisation. on the eve of the 9th industrial conference, which will take place from 3 to 6 december in indonesia, this is a very timely point and we all look forward with expectation to the positive outcome of the ministerial conference. preparations have been considerably accelerated since the beginning of september under the leadership of the new director-general of the wto, ambassador roberto azevedo, whose commitment should be publicly underlined, especially in the last weeks and days. the outcome is unfortunately still uncertain, but we hope that we will be able to reach agreement in the next few days on the main topics under negotiation, namely agriculture, trade and development and trade facilitation, which, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, is the most substantive part of the package under negotiation. above all, we need to revitalize the negotiating and regulatory pillar of the world trade organization. failure at this stage would be highly damaging to the authority and credibility of the world trade organization.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. the galileo programme creates a more advanced global navigation satellite system, which ensures a highly accurate and reliable global positioning service. it is a flagship project of the european union and in the spirit of the europe 2020 strategy. european industry will be the first beneficiary of this programme. galileo contributes to the functioning of many sectors of the economy and provides businesses and citizens with direct access to a european-produced satellite navigation signal. given its importance, its european dimension and its added value, the committee on budgets considered that this programme should receive adequate funding and allocated eur 6.3 billion to it.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, today we are closing the long marathon which, over more than three years, has mobilized the entire european agricultural sector, environmental organizations, european, national and regional political institutions and many citizens. it was a job as complex and demanding as it was rewarding. i remember the thousands of amendments we had to examine, the meetings throughout europe and the dozens of trilogues we had to hold to reach the agreement we want to see adopted here today. it is right to thank all those in the european parliament who have been involved in this process, starting with president paolo de castro, whose important role in the conduct of this process has been decisive for the results we have achieved; the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups, the members, the secretariats of the committee on agriculture, the political groups and the members themselves, and also the interpreters, without whom the efficient communication we have established would not have been possible. it is all the more fitting to thank parliament for this when we compare its technical apparatus with that of the council and the commission. this is a matter which will have to be reviewed in the future so that parliament can exercise its powers to the full. i would also like to thank the commission in the person of mr cioloş for his constant availability, his staff and his services, and for the openness and commitment which he has always shown. thank you very much, commissioner. it is also right to acknowledge the efforts of the successive presidencies: the polish presidency, the danish presidency, the cypriot presidency, the irish presidency, in a very special way, and the lithuanian presidency. the final agreement i reached with the council and the commission on behalf of parliament on the regulations on direct payments and rural development is not the ideal agreement for the european parliament and i am sure it is not the ideal agreement for the council or the commission either. it is nevertheless the possible agreement in which the three institutions can review each other because it incorporates the priorities and concerns of all of them and proves that the spirit of compromise and reciprocal concessions which characterizes the european decision-making method was the one we applied. as far as the european parliament is concerned, i can say with satisfaction that our main objectives have been achieved: to ensure a greener and more legitimate cap for citizens and taxpayers, a fairer and more equitable cap between member states and farmers, and a simpler and less bureaucratic cap. it would be easy, if time permitted, to list the vast array of measures and regulations which support this assertion. i am proud to note the expressions of satisfaction from various sectors of civil society for the recognition of parliament's role in this negotiation. a short time ago, it was widely believed that the introduction of codecision in agricultural matters would paralyse any future decision-making. parliament has not only shown that this prejudice is false but has also shown that it can make decisions on agriculture better. it is important, commissioner, that the letter and spirit of the tripartite agreement we have concluded should not be distorted in the implementing rules. the news we have been hearing lately about delegated acts is very worrying and i would therefore like to warn you and appeal to your good sense and good faith to avoid a reaction from parliament which is unnecessary and avoidable. i conclude by expressing the hope that history will confirm today's date as a turning point and at the same time as a reinforcement of the oldest community policy, which europe needs today as much as in the past and which allows us to continue to be leaders on the world market, to remain at the top of food quality and food safety and to keep europe's rural areas alive and sustainable.
we have done everything to ensure that the result of this reform is different from what we have achieved. the reform which the majority of this parliament is preparing to pass will not solve problems and will create others. the road to liberalization and deregulation is being widened, and this is taking us further away from what should be the primary objective of agricultural policy: ensuring food security and food sovereignty in each country in a sustainable way. over the last two and a half years, we've shown that it's possible to come at it another way. the hundreds of amendments we have tabled have given substance to this alternative path. we are calling for an end to the scandalous inequalities in direct payments between countries and producers, which persist with this reform. we are in favour of another regulation of the markets, one which ensures fair prices for production. we are in favour of instruments for regulating production, adapted to the needs of each country and its relative level of production capacity, allowing differentiated development in countries with higher deficits. nothing ends here. we shall continue to fight with thousands of farmers and their organisations for a fundamental change in the common agricultural policy.
from the beginning of this process we have been fighting for a genuine cap, capable of becoming a fairer policy in the distribution of aid, more sustainable and competitive, guaranteeing productive and profitable farms throughout the union. the truth is that in many respects we have not gone as far as we wanted to go and in others we have fallen short of what was needed, as in the dairy sector. we have, however, managed to move the cap in the right direction by giving value to producer organisations, agricultural research and innovation, supporting young farmers and simplifying processes for small farmers by introducing risk management and insurance systems in production and incomes. we are concerned, however, about areas which have not been resolved by the reform and which it is essential to resolve, such as the continuation of milk production in the outermost regions and in mountain regions, the abuse of a dominant position in the food chain and in the dairy sector.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we have just had has confirmed what was the long negotiating process which is coming to an end today: a high turnout, a huge difference of opinion, but an obvious conclusion. the draft agreement which we are putting before the house today is the compromise that can be reached and the common denominator that can bring together a majority of parliament, the 28 member states and the commission. but, and this is the most important, the result we have achieved is positively assessed by european farmers and by a large number of citizens. i therefore call on all members to vote in favour of this reform, even though it is not the ideal reform, as has already been said, because it represents a qualitative leap forward in relation to the present situation and the past. the introduction of environmental criteria for the award of aid at the expense of production, the introduction of greater fairness and equity between member states and farmers, the priority given to young farmers, the positive discrimination against small farmers and the simplification of bureaucracy represent a historic turning point and an agricultural and environmental benefit that will be confirmed in the future. it will be shown that parliament's intervention as full legislator was decisive for defining the irreversible course the cap will take from 2014 onwards. at the close of the task which has absorbed us for more than three years, i would like to renew my thanks once again to all those whom i mentioned in my opening remarks, without whose contribution this moment would not have been possible.
in writing. the european commission strategy, presented on 22 november, focuses mainly on the implementation and enforcement of measures already adopted. the aim is therefore to bring the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework into force as early as january 2014 and for member states to start applying this funding to sustainable value-added projects capable of creating jobs and growth. the commission also stressed that the completion of economic union required the closure of certain issues, notably banking union, the internal market, the digital agenda and the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism fund. for the first time, the commission has detailed a list of priorities it wants to see adopted: the railway package, the long-term investment fund, the telecommunications package, the european union's emissions trading scheme for aviation. at a turning point, with a new framework programme for 2014-2020, the union and the member states need to implement a coordinated strategy aligned with the eu2020 objectives. only a joint, defined and coordinated response can revitalise europe from the economic crisis that has gripped the world since 2008.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, parliament has just adopted an amendment to the councilʼs position on draft amending budget no 9 for 2013. this amendment is totally in line with the political agreement reached in the conciliation committee last week in the framework of the joint text concerning the 2014 budget. in accordance with the last sentence of article 314(4)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i can inform you that the council approves the amendment adopted by parliament as regards the councilʼs position on draft amending budget no 9 for 2013. therefore, no meeting of the conciliation committee provided for by article 314(5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is needed.
i would like to reiterate on behalf of our group that we have tabled several amendments to this report, to the proposal for a regulation on the common strategic framework, and we consider it unacceptable that the procedure laid down for this vote does not even allow our amendments to be voted on. we consider that this is an undemocratic and unacceptable restriction on the right of members to table amendments, to have their amendments voted for or against, but to have them voted on. we therefore ask once again that this procedure be reviewed and that our amendments be allowed to be voted on. otherwise we cannot but ask what they are afraid of, why they do not want to vote on these amendments.
madam president, i would also like to ask that this position be reconsidered, i would like to table an amendment to article 21 which introduces macro-conditionality, punishing countries with their structural funds for violations that have nothing to do with the structural funds. i would ask the bureau to reconsider the admissibility of an oral amendment on this subject.
madam president, we shall vote in favour of mr oldřich's report, which provides funds to combat youth unemployment in three european countries: france, italy and spain. these funds are not given in the technically correct way. the country with the lowest youth unemployment has the most funds and forgets all the countries under the troika programme: portugal, greece, ireland and cyprus. we tried to change this through amendments; the secretarial rules that were imposed yesterday do not allow us. it is a scandal that one week we are going to tell young people that we are going to try to combat youth unemployment and the next week we are voting on a report in this way, the result of a deal made in the council's corridors which has neither democratic legitimacy nor, as we see, technical feasibility or correspondence with reality.
in writing. the eu budget for next year, as approved by the european parliament, will be €135.5 billion in payment appropriations and €142.6 billion in commitment appropriations. despite being an austerity budget, the 2014 budget includes the ep's priorities in areas such as employment, research and innovation, education, border management and humanitarian aid and is the first annual budget under the new multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, approved in plenary.
in writing. − the european parliament (ep) and the council have finally reached agreement on the eu budget for 2014. once again, it took 16 consecutive hours of meetings for the member states to reach an agreement among themselves by qualified majority! it is a caricature, but the most difficult part of this marathon was not the negotiation between the ep and the council, but the negotiation within the council, between the member states. parliament's main demand was simple: the 2014 budget should have enough money to meet the commitments that the council itself had made! the council signed a declaration committing itself to agreeing additional funds for 2014 if necessary! the council, while committing itself to the obvious, signs declarations that it does not always comply with... it 's a strange situation . the ep defends the obvious and the interests of the member states themselves. the ep has finally succeeded, with a budget of €135.5 billion in payment appropriations and €142.6 billion in commitment appropriations, and with increased funding for employment, research and innovation, education, border management and humanitarian aid. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the outcome of the conciliation process has proved us right in the false opposition of the majority of this parliament to the council's position. the right and the social democracy eventually approved a 2014 budget that did not go much beyond the restoration of the proposed amounts in some areas, maintaining the political priorities proposed by the commission and the council. this is the true picture of a majority which is always ready to make declarations of apparent radicalness, only to end up ratifying the same proposals (amounts and priorities) from the council and the commission. the fight against youth unemployment, for example, is still a priority for most of them. we have tabled a proposal to amend the youth employment initiative under the european social fund (esf), advocating an increase of over eur 1.5 billion in this heading. the majority voted against. in rhetoric, the majority are in favour of fighting youth unemployment, but in practice, as the conciliation result shows, they reject the need to mobilise more funds to alleviate the real social scourge that is youth unemployment today. this is the first budget of a multiannual financial framework for poverty, which for the first time is reduced in nominal terms compared to the previous one. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, in particular the creation of new specific budget lines for technical assistance relating to the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as i agree with the call to the commission and the member states to make every effort to ensure that the eu budget is spent efficiently and that everything financed by it has a clear european added value, in particular that member states should share tasks where possible and strengthen mutual cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, in particular the creation of new specific budget lines for technical assistance relating to the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund, as i agree with the call to the commission and the member states to make every effort to ensure that the eu budget is spent efficiently and that everything financed by it has a clear european added value, in particular that member states should share tasks where possible and strengthen mutual cooperation.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 at its plenary session today, setting a budget of eur 960 billion for the next seven years of programming. following the adoption of the mff, the european parliament is in a position to vote in favour of the 2014 budget, setting the ceilings for commitment and payment appropriations. i voted in favour of this report, which gives a new impetus to research and innovation activities, support for smes and allows the first funds from the european budget to be released for member states to implement the activities enshrined in cohesion policy.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur's position and support the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to supplement the funding of the structural funds programmes in cyprus.
in writing. − one of the main reasons for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is the additional support to cyprus, which has been facing a particularly serious financial crisis that has had a tremendous impact on its economy. the country is still far from having fully stabilised and therefore needs support and monitoring from the union. i hope that the mobilization now authorized will have a positive impact on the lives of the cypriot people and enable the country to re-emerge with a more solid financial system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument worth eur 78 billion in favour of cyprus. this mobilisation is necessary to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union in 2014, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b. it is intended to finance the structural funds programmes of cyprus in order to increase the structural funds allocations for cyprus.
in writing. − the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is intended to complement the financing of the general eu budget in 2014, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b (cohesion) to finance the structural funds programmes of cyprus. the amounts are paltry in relation to existing needs and the structural options for cohesion policies remain, whereas, as we have repeatedly stated, a substantial increase of at least twice the current amounts and a change in their objectives are needed to finance policies that effectively promote economic and social cohesion. we voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind that in some cases this money could help to alleviate a social situation which is dramatic. we reject the blackmail to obtain funds which, in the case of both cyprus and portugal (both countries have the so-called memoranda of understanding), are aimed at forcing the deepening of policies which are contrary to the needs and aspirations of their peoples, their sovereignty, with the clear aim of creating the conditions for better exploitation of them and the resources of their countries.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union in 2014, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b, in an amount of €78 million, to finance the structural funds programmes of cyprus. overall, the structural funds allocation for cyprus in 2014 is increased by €100 million. taking into account that, after examining all possibilities for reallocating appropriations under heading 1b, it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the european union in 2014, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b, in the amount of € 89.330.000, to finance the structural funds programmes of cyprus, i voted in favour of this report which also warns that it is crucial that the union budget is increasingly flexible.
in writing. - this purely technical report shows us once again the need to make the union budget more flexible in order to adequately finance important and urgent priorities of the union. for this reason, i am in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to increase the allocations of the structural funds for cyprus.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by deploring the council's position on the amending budget, which amends the commission's proposal to finance the mobilisation of the fund in full by reallocating budget lines which could be under-implemented by the end of 2013, as identified by the commission in its global transfer proposal. i approve the agreement reached on 12 november 2013 in the conciliation committee to finance this mobilisation in 2013 in payment appropriations by way of reallocation and in 2014 by way of new appropriations. i am also pleased to note that this will make it possible to finance the research needs identified, and in particular to sign a large number of new research contracts later this year. i would point out, however, that i maintain the principle that the financing of special instruments such as the solidarity fund should be entered in the budget above the ceilings of the framework and i do not support the council's unilateral statement on payment appropriations annexed to the joint conclusions on the 2014 budget.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to amend the budget to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for romania for drought and forest fires in 2012; and for germany, austria and the czech republic for the flood disasters in may and june 2013.
in writing. − as the rapporteur expressly states, amending budget no 9 for the financial year 2013 concerns the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund in the amount of eur 400,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations for romania, concerning the droughts and forest fires of 2012, and for germany, austria and the czech republic, concerning the floods of may and june 2013. just as european solidarity is justified in dramatic cases such as those described through the fund of the same name, so is its implementation and budgetary appropriation.
in writing. − this amending budget (rap) no 9 for the financial year 2013 concerns the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund in the amount of eur 400,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations for romania, concerning the droughts and forest fires of 2012, and for germany, austria and the czech republic, concerning the floods of may and june 2013. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to respond to the disasters in romania (drought and fires) and germany, austria and the czech republic (floods), which we supported, requires an amending budget to provide the necessary appropriations, taking into account the damage caused and the amount of aid decided (more than eur 400 million). we therefore vote in favour of this amending budget (no 9/2012) which provides for this amount. we are, however, concerned and strongly criticise the systematic use of amending budgets and transfers between budget lines. this is only because we are witnessing a repeated, systematic and chronic practice of under-budgeting, and there are no proposals from the council and this parliament to change this situation.
in writing. - i have no objection to voting in favour of this draft amending budget (rap) no 9 for the financial year 2013 concerning the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund in the amount of eur 400,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations for romania, concerning the droughts and forest fires of 2012, and for germany, austria and the czech republic, concerning the floods of may and june 2013.
in writing. − the following report seeks to mobilise eur 400,5 million from the european solidarity fund for romania, following the drought and forest fires in 2012; and for germany, austria and the czech republic, following the floods in may and june this year. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the allocation of this fund.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, germany, austria and the czech republic in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. during the summer of 2012, large parts of romania experienced very low rainfall and repeated extreme heat waves, leading to drought and a huge breakdown of agricultural production, numerous forest fires, water shortages for the population and subsequent problems for water supply and hydropower generation systems. in may and june 2013, central europe was affected by a weather situation very similar to the one that led to the centenary flood of 2002 and subsequently to the creation of the european union solidarity fund. once again germany, austria and the czech republic were hit by catastrophic floods. in view of these facts and the principle governing the european union solidarity fund, i am in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state and countries negotiating its accession in the event of a major natural disaster. this fund complements public funds from member states in emergency situations, in particular for the urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure, temporary accommodation and emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population, as well as for the cleaning up of the areas affected by the disaster. in the summer of 2012, romania was affected by drought, a huge drop in agricultural production, numerous fires and water shortages. in may and june 2013 germany, austria and the czech republic were affected by catastrophic floods. following the disasters, the countries concerned requested assistance from the european union solidarity fund. in accordance with the eligibility criteria, the mobilisation of eur 400 519 089 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund was approved to alleviate the pain, suffering and losses of the people affected by these disasters. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the european union solidarity fund should be mobilised for romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. during the summer of 2012, large parts of romania experienced very low rainfall and repeated extreme heat waves, leading to drought and a huge breakdown of agricultural production, numerous forest fires, water shortages for the population and subsequent problems for water supply and hydropower generation systems. in may and june 2013, central europe was affected by a weather situation very similar to the one that led to the centenary flood of 2002 and subsequently to the creation of the eu solidarity fund. once again germany, austria and the czech republic were hit by catastrophic floods. although flood levels were partly higher, overall losses, although very high, were lower than in 2002, in particular in austria and the czech republic, thanks to the effectiveness of flood protection and risk control measures introduced since 2002.
in writing. - i agree with the compensation for the victims of floods and drought in several european countries. like portugal, romania was hit by forest fires, while germany, austria and the czech republic were hit by floods.
in writing. − this mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund is in favour of romania, germany, austria and the czech republic in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the interinstitutional agreement allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is the second proposal to mobilise the fund in 2013. during the summer of 2012, large parts of romania experienced very low rainfall and repeated extreme heat waves, leading to drought and a huge breakdown of agricultural production, numerous forest fires, water shortages for the population and subsequent problems for water supply and hydropower generation systems. in may and june 2013, central europe was affected by a weather situation very similar to the one that led to the centenary flood of 2002 and subsequently to the creation of the eu solidarity fund. once again germany, austria and the czech republic were hit by catastrophic floods therefore, and as the person responsible for mobilising this fund, i have proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 400 519 089.
in writing. − we have endorsed the decision of the european parliament and the council to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for the people of romania, a region affected in the summer of 2012 by high temperature waves, leading to drought, a huge drop in agricultural production, numerous fires, water shortages for the population and subsequent problems with the water supply. we also agreed to the mobilisation of the eusf for the people of germany, austria and the czech republic, countries affected by the floods in central europe in may and june 2013. direct losses for romania were estimated at eur 2,48 million and for germany, austria and the czech republic at eur 398 million, totalling more than eur 400 million. as we have said in previous situations, there is a need to speed up this type of financial assistance. in the case of romania, the decision to mobilise shall be taken one year after the request for assistance. in the case of germany, austria and the czech republic, the decision is taken five months after the floods occurred. more than remedies, prevention is necessary. this is why the recommendations of the report on disaster prevention (approved by parliament in 2010) are important.
in writing. the solidarity fund was set up for disaster situations. during the summer of 2012, large parts of romania experienced very low rainfall and repeated extreme heat waves, leading to drought, a huge drop in agricultural production, forest fires, water shortages for the population and subsequent problems for water supply and hydropower generation systems. the romanian authorities submitted a request for financial assistance. in may and june 2013, central europe was affected by a weather situation very similar to the one that led to the centenary flood of 2002. however, flood levels were lower than in 2002, thanks to the effectiveness of flood protection and risk control measures introduced in the meantime. germany submitted a request for financial assistance and the requests of austria and the czech republic were submitted under the so-called neighbouring country criterion. after verifying that the applications in question fulfilled the eligibility criteria, the commission proposed the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − during the summer of 2012, romania was hit by extremely high temperatures, leading to drought and a drastic drop in agricultural production, along with a series of severe forest fires. in may and june 2013, germany, austria and the czech republic were hit by disastrous floods, leaving a trail of destruction wherever they passed. in both cases, requests for financial assistance from the eu solidarity fund were submitted and, after analysis, it was proposed to mobilise the fund for a total amount of eur 400 519 089. i voted in favour of adopting this report because i agree with the allocation of this value to the countries concerned.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting from the fact that, after an analysis of all the possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations, it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument. further taking into account that the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013, beyond the ceiling, with a view to financing the european social fund, in order to increase the appropriations for france, italy and spain for 2013. i also note the commission's proposal to exceed the ceiling for 2013 with a view to increasing the european social fund appropriations for france, italy and spain for 2013 and to mobilise the flexibility instrument to that end.
in writing. - i agree to the use of the flexibility instrument to cover commitments up to the amount of eur 134 049 037 for the financing of the additional appropriations for france, italy and spain.
in writing. - i agree to the use of the flexibility instrument to cover commitments up to the amount of eur 134 049 037 for the financing of the additional appropriations for france, italy and spain.
in writing. − this mobilisation of the flexibility instrument allows the supplementary financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b, by eur 134 049 037, for the financing of the european social fund, in order to increase the appropriations for france, italy and spain for 2013 by a total amount of eur 150 000 000. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. we agree that these funds belonging to member states should be allocated to existing esf programmes in those member states to correct specific situations of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and social exclusion. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is related to the need to complement the financing of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 with a view to financing the european social fund, in particular to increase the appropriations for france, italy and spain. we voted in favour of the report, but we cannot help but point out that, in addition to not being new money, it adds insignificant value to meet a dire need, which is addressed to only three member states - a situation which constitutes a deplorable and unacceptable discrimination against other countries whose situation would also justify this measure, as is the case in portugal. the real social scourge of youth unemployment today requires, as we have argued, a significant increase in the appropriations earmarked for this purpose, specifically funding job creation with rights for young people. in every country that needs it.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013, beyond the ceiling of heading 1b, by eur 134 049 037, with a view to financing the european social fund, in order to increase the appropriations for france, italy and spain for 2013 by a total amount of eur 150 000 000. considering that, after an analysis of all possibilities for reallocation of appropriations under heading 1b, it appears necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013, beyond the ceiling, with a view to financing the european social fund, in order to increase the appropriations for france, italy and spain for 2013 by a total amount of € 150 000 000, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. as i said when the document on the strengthening of the european social fund to combat youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in france, italy and spain was adopted, this technical report will make it possible to validate the increase in appropriations for these three countries by mobilising the flexibility instrument.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by saying that, as far as the egnos programme is concerned, i believe that the guarantee of coverage of the territories of the member states should be given absolute priority. the egnos programme should be available throughout the european union as soon as possible. it is also appropriate to extend coverage to the territories of candidate countries and third countries covered by the single european sky and the european neighbourhood policy. the success of the galileo and egnos programmes will be measured by the number and satisfaction of their customers. it is essential to implement an operating structure with a permanent and organised user interface, which is responsible for the quality and continuity of the service. i would also stress that delays, price escalation and loss of profits must be avoided. it is therefore essential to ensure good management and to promote and communicate to the market the value of the european gnss.
in writing. − the galileo programme is creating a more advanced global satellite navigation system, which ensures a highly accurate and reliable global positioning service. it is a flagship project of the european union and in the spirit of the europe 2020 strategy. european industry will be the first beneficiary of this programme. galileo contributes to the functioning of many sectors of the economy and provides businesses and citizens with direct access to a european-produced satellite navigation signal. given its importance, its european dimension and its added value, the committee on budgets considered that this programme should receive adequate funding (eur 7 billion).
in writing. - satellite radio navigation is increasingly used in a wide range of sectors and activities. it would be useless to list them or even to try to justify their economic and strategic importance. i therefore believe that the deployment and operation of such systems, which are of civilian origin and have a civilian purpose, should be one of the priorities of the union. despite this principle, i believe that the process of structuring european systems of this kind must be guided by clear rules and transparent management of taxpayers' money. i welcome the proposed clarification, which seems to me to be elementary justice, that as far as the services of the egnos programme are concerned, they should cover, as a matter of priority, the part of the territory of the member states geographically located in europe and that this includes, for that purpose, the azores, the canary islands and madeira.
in writing. the report by mr marian-jean marinescu deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the deployment and operation of european satellite radio navigation systems. i consider it very important to create the first satellite navigation system (gnss), built on civil control, totally independent of the other existing systems. global navigation satellite system (gnss) technologies have the ability to provide accurate and highly reliable measurements of position, speed and time. they are therefore essential to improve efficiency in many sectors of the economy and in many areas of citizens' daily lives.
in writing. − the galileo programme is an initiative for a global navigation satellite system, providing a highly accurate global positioning service under civilian control. in november 2011, the commission presented a proposal for a new regulation, which constitutes the basic act for the galileo and egnos programmes during the mff 2014-2020. over time, while recognising the obvious importance of the existence of such systems, we have also expressed concerns about some of their possible uses, particularly in the military sphere. these concerns remain, not being removed by the mechanisms of operation and control currently in place, quite the contrary. the commission is also concerned about the lack of consensus on aspects of the report, such as the linking of the systems to the european external action service or border control, to give two examples.
in writing. − the european satellite radio navigation policy will provide the union with two satellite radio navigation systems, the system resulting from the galileo programme and the egnos system. global navigation satellite system (gnss) technologies, with their ability to provide accurate and highly reliable position, speed and time measurements, are key to improving efficiency in many sectors of the economy and in many areas of citizens' daily lives. the gnss programmes, as proposed, will generate eur 68,63 billion (in current prices, according to the impact assessment guidelines) of net benefits to the union over the life cycle of the system from 2014 to 2034. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report, which argues that it is essential to ensure the proper management, promotion and communication to the market of the value of the european gnss.
in writing. − a global and fully european satellite navigation system, interoperable with other systems, including the us and russia, with an appropriate budget for the period 2014-2020 is what this report sets out. the implementation and operation of egnos and galileo is supported by the european parliament and will give the european union a more precise, civil and independent system. the navigation system has implications for the daily lives of european citizens and can improve safety and efficiency in aviation, maritime and road transport, agriculture and the environment. with a budget of 6.3 billion, i am in favour of the development and implementation of these two systems because of the enormous benefits they will bring to the european economy and to the citizens.
in writing. - galileo ensures that the signals emitted by the system resulting from this programme can be used to fulfil the following five functions: to provide an open service, free of charge to the user, providing location and timing information for mass applications of satellite radio navigation; to provide a service to safeguard human life; to provide a commercial service enabling the development of applications for professional purposes; to provide a regulated public service reserved for users authorised by governments; to participate in the search and rescue service. the report has introduced some amendments to the council proposal which give rise to many reservations and even serious concerns, in particular that public authorities can benefit from these systems in various areas such as police services, crisis management and border management and that the commission ensures that the eeas is fully associated with its activities in the implementation of security-related tasks in the field of external relations. to this end, all necessary technical support shall be provided to the eeas. we abstained because we do not accept that these programmes are associated with the security surveillance of individuals and military action.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by pointing out that relations between the european union and the kingdom of jordan have been developing within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. i would also remind you that an association agreement between the european communities and their member states, on the one hand, and jordan, on the other, entered into force in may 2002. bilateral political dialogue and economic cooperation have been further strengthened under the european neighbourhood policy action plans, the latest of which focuses on the period 2010-2015. in 2010, the union granted jordan advanced status in the framework of the partnership, which implies wide areas of cooperation between both parties. in 2013, the association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and jordan, of the other part, was complemented by a framework agreement between the union and jordan on the general principles for the participation of jordan in union programmes, which further strengthened cooperation between the union and jordan.
in writing. - as i have recently had the opportunity to say, jordan has long been a factor of stabilization in the middle east and the efforts of its last two monarchs in this regard should be welcomed. despite the serious efforts of the jordanian authorities, the international situation has proved to be adverse to the stabilization and progress of jordan. in this context of need, the european union should seek to work together to alleviate the jordanian problems and to contribute to the progress and success of the reforms under way in the country. i reiterate my conviction that the european union must strengthen its relationship with jordan, give it full support in its difficult tasks and regard it as a reliable and privileged partner in the region.
in writing. the report by mr vital moreira deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the jordanian economy has been significantly affected by the national events related to the arab spring and by the regional disturbances currently being felt, especially in egypt and syria, both neighbouring countries, which have given rise to an increase in the influx of refugees. the decline in tourism revenues and foreign direct investment flows, the increase in energy prices and the repeated disruptions in the supply of natural gas from egypt have hampered economic growth, thus resulting in a deterioration in the country's balance of payments and fiscal position. this macrofinancial assistance will be exceptional and limited in time and will run in parallel with the standby agreement concluded with the imf, albeit with a shorter duration. agreement to complement assistance provided by other multilateral and bilateral donors in the context of the imf-sponsored programme.
in writing. − the report considers that due to regional instability jordan has been experiencing problems in its economy and has turned to the imf in august 2012. under an imf economic reform and adjustment programme, jordan received sdr 1364 million. however, in view of the worsening economic situation, jordan requested macro-financial assistance from the european union in december 2012. the eu macro-financial assistance shall be limited to a maximum of eur 180 million and shall be fully provided to jordan in the form of loans. the commission will, on behalf of the eu, borrow the necessary amount on the capital markets or from financial institutions and lend these funds obtained to jordan. all costs related to the borrowing and lending operations shall be borne by jordan. we do not deny the importance of supporting countries in difficulty, but we reject the conditionality attached to this assistance, which seeks to take with two hands what is pretended to be given with one (by imposing respect for the eu's foreign policy priorities, the opening of markets, interference in the internal affairs of the country, etc.). it's an act of solidarity with the jordanian people.
in writing. − in the joint declaration of the european parliament and the council adopted together with the decision to grant additional macro-financial assistance to georgia (adopted by parliament on 4 july 2013), the parliament and the council committed to fully reflect the considerations and principles contained in the joint declaration in future individual decisions to grant union macro-financial assistance. therefore, the amendments presented in this report to the commission proposal for a decision on the granting of macro-financial assistance to jordan: and/or (2) align the wording of this proposal with the recitals and articles of the decision granting macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic (as agreed in the informal trilogue negotiations aiming at a rapid second reading agreement). i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − in the joint declaration of the european parliament and the council adopted together with the decision to grant additional macro-financial assistance to georgia, the parliament and the council undertook to reflect the considerations and principles contained in that joint declaration in future individual decisions to grant union macro-financial assistance. since the amendments tabled in this report to the commission proposal for a decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to jordan reflect the considerations and principles contained in that joint declaration, and bring the wording of this proposal into line with the recitals and articles of the decision granting macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i approve this report, and for various reasons i support the european parliament's approval of this agreement, since the agreement establishes cooperation between the two parties for the control of trade in certain chemicals and a mechanism for mutual administrative assistance. this consists of prior notification by the exporting country at the time of export, followed by a three-week period during which the importing country may object to such importation, stating in writing the reasons for its objection. in my view, an agreement such as this one contributes to a clear european strategy, based on a common approach by the major trading powers, particularly the producers and consumers of drugs, to tackle the drug trade affecting them by strengthening common and ambitious control of the international trade and exchanges in these precursors, which make the production of many synthetic drugs possible. in this respect, the eu has concluded and signed similar agreements with the united states, china and numerous latin american countries. this strategy is laudable and the agreement therefore deserves the approval of the european parliament.
in writing. the agreement between the european union and russia aims to improve cooperation between the two partners in the control of the trade in drug precursors. the agreement establishes cooperation between the two parties for the control of trade in certain chemicals and mechanisms for mutual administrative assistance in the form of data exchange. this agreement contributes to a clear european strategy based on a common approach by the major trading powers, in particular the producers and consumers of drugs, with the aim of putting an end to the drug trade affecting them by strengthening and jointly and ambitiously controlling the international trade and exchanges in these precursors, which make the production of many synthetic drugs possible. the aim is therefore to reinforce the obstacles to traffickers by means of greater control of the points of origin and destination of the chemicals and medicinal products concerned, without endangering the lawful trade in these products. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the european union and the russian federation share an interest in effectively combating drug trafficking. both societies suffer from the scourge of drug addiction. they therefore have a strong interest in coordinating this fight and in promoting joint actions that can enhance their respective responses to a problem of such magnitude. drug precursors are not illegal in themselves but may be subject to illicit use. this dual use suggests caution in trade and vigilance in use. i hope that this agreement will prove fruitful and that it will be another important step towards convergence of positions and strengthening of cooperation and trust between the european union and russia.
in writing. the report by mr proust deals with the draft proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the russian federation on drug precursors. drug precursors are legal substances that can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. ex: acetic acid which is used in the manufacture of heroin. this international agreement was signed on 4 june 2013 at the eu-russia summit in ekaterinburg and aims to control the bilateral and legal trade in products that are misused and illegally used in the manufacture of drugs. i think it is essential that this agreement be guided by a high degree of trust and transparency between the two parties. the european commission should establish good cooperation relations with the russian federal customs service in the fight against drugs.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's action plan for the fight against drugs in the eu. it follows the adoption of the revision of regulation 111/2005, which aimed to fill a legal gap by establishing rules to control trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries. the aim of this agreement is to strengthen the barriers to traffickers by means of increased controls at the points of origin and destination of the chemicals and medicinal products concerned, without endangering the lawful trade in these products. this agreement, unlike other existing agreements of the same kind (and to which we have previously expressed some reservations), includes a clause on data protection, which we consider important.
in writing. − this proposal for an agreement between the european union and the russian federation aims to improve cooperation between these two major trading partners in the control of the trade in drug precursors. these precursors are legal substances that can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the manufacture of heroin. an agreement in this area is of particular importance and must be based on a high degree of trust between the two parties. the european commission has established good cooperation relations with the russian federal customs service in the fight against drugs. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − this proposal for an agreement between the european union and the russian federation aims to improve cooperation between these two major trading partners in the control of the trade in drug precursors. this international agreement was signed on 4 june 2013 at the eu-russia summit in yekaterinburg. it is the latest in a series of bilateral agreements concluded over the last 15 years by the european union with third countries on the same model, aimed at controlling the legal bilateral trade in products that are misused and illegally used in the manufacture of drugs. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of parliament's document approving the agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report, with the present proposal, where the following third states should be added to the annex to the decision: brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. i do not question the operational needs of the member states which request europol to conclude agreements with brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. however, the proposal cannot be adopted on the basis of provisions contrary to the treaty of lisbon. there is also some concern about the current level of data protection in some of the countries included in the proposal. therefore, even if the proposal is approved, the executive director and the management board of europol should not start any negotiations on operational agreements with the listed countries until the entry into force of the new europol regulation.
in writing. - since the europol regulation itself is under discussion, in which the way in which agreements are to be concluded with third states and organisations is subject to amendment, i agree with the rapporteur and the unanimity of the political groups. that it should take precedence over the draft decision amending this list of third states and organisations. i do not mean to reject the inclusion of countries which are fully deserving of such a list as brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. i hope that this delay, which is due to formal issues, will eventually lead to a material breakthrough and to the strengthening of europol's relations with these states after the adoption of the new terms of the europol regulation.
in writing. − the report by mr philip claeys deals with the draft council decision amending decision 2009/935/jha as regards the list of third states and organisations with which europol is to conclude agreements. in accordance with article 26 (1) of the current decision establishing europol (decision 2009/371/jha), it is for the council to determine the list of third states and organisations with which europol is to conclude agreements. the following countries are to be added to decision 2009/935/jha: brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. i believe that any exchange of personal data with third states or international organisations must provide for strict security guarantees with regard to the protection of privacy and fundamental rights.
in writing. − the council has the power to determine the list of third states and organisations with which europol concludes agreements. this proposal provides for the addition of brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates to that list. the european parliament shall be consulted on the draft council decision. however, the commission has recently put forward a proposal for a regulation for europol (com (2013) 173) which amends the provisions and procedures for the conclusion of agreements with third states and organisations. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this regulation will be subject to the co-decision procedure of the parliament and the council. in an opinion delivered on 19 june 2013, parliament's legal service considered that the proposed procedure was incorrect. apart from these formal aspects, the content of the proposal - which is our position on europol, its framework and objectives - does not merit our agreement. the rapporteur himself mentions relevant data protection concerns which should be taken into account. it is considered that even if the proposal is approved, no negotiations on operational agreements with the listed countries should be initiated until the entry into force of the new europol regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the draft council decision amending decision 2009/935/jha as regards the list of third states and organisations with which europol is to conclude agreements. in accordance with the recommendation of the europol management board to the council of 4 october 2012, it is proposed to include brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates in that list. the proposal includes a detailed justification for the need to conclude agreements with these countries. i have no objections to this report.
in writing. − the conclusion of agreements between europol and third countries and/or organisations is subject to the lisbon treaty rules on co-decision. as the conclusion of agreements between europol and the following countries, brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates, did not follow the correct procedures, it should not be accepted by this parliament, as it was only consulted.
in writing. − the council is empowered to determine the list of third states and organisations with which europol concludes agreements, which is published in an annex to decision 2009/935/jha. this proposal provides for the addition of brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates to that annex. the justification for the need to conclude these agreements is described in the recommendation published by europol's management board and the european parliament is consulted on the draft council decision. however, the commission has recently put forward a proposal for a regulation for europol (com (2013) 173) which amends the provisions and procedures for the conclusion of agreements with third states and organisations. in an opinion delivered on 19 june 2013, parliament's legal service considered that the proposed procedure was incorrect. the rapporteur does not question the operational needs of member states which request europol to conclude agreements with brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. however, it considered that the proposal could not be adopted on the basis of provisions contrary to the treaty of lisbon. our vote was based on our principled position against europol, which is essentially a repressive instrument.
in writing. − i approve this report in view of the fact that the eric regulation1 was adopted by the council in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and operation of european research infrastructures in non-economic ways. many of the projects included in the roadmap of the european research infrastructure strategies forum plan to use the eric as a legal instrument to create and operate research infrastructure. however, the eric regulation provides for a distinction and difference of treatment between member states, associated countries, non-associated third countries and intergovernmental organisations. associated countries, in particular norway, have clearly indicated that they intend to contribute, as host countries or as members, to a significant number of erics in the pipeline, if they have voting rights in erics identical to those of the member states of the european union, especially when they are the host country of an eric, which implies a significant contribution to its activities. since the purpose of the proposed amendment to the eric regulation is to put an end to this distinction, i have no objection to its approval.
in writing. the amendment is not without its major comments. the need to develop european research infrastructures and the importance of these infrastructures for the vitality of european science and research and the economy itself is also important. it is worthwhile to see investment in research and science as a priority and to resist the temptation to look for immediate results or applications. history shows that discoveries apparently devoid of practical use have proved essential to the viability of later inventions, designs and systems. while the lisbon strategy's blueprint has failed, its ambition to make the union the most competitive economic area based on technology and innovation - can and should continue to guide policy-makers, entrepreneurs, universities and research centres - is no less true.
in writing. the report by ms sartori deals with the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 723/2009 on the community legal framework for the european research infrastructure consortium (eric). the eric regulation was adopted by the council in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and operation of european research infrastructures in non-economic ways. this regulation created a new legal instrument at eu level for the creation of european research infrastructures with legal personality recognised in all member states. i agree with the aim of the proposed amendment to the eric regulation to put an end to a situation where associated countries are not eligible to become host countries or members of an eric because their voting rights do not currently correspond to the financial support they would provide for eric projects.
in writing. − the european research infrastructure (eric) regulation was adopted in 2009 to facilitate the creation and operation of european research infrastructures in non-economic ways. many of the projects included in the roadmap of the european strategy forum for research infrastructures (esfri) plan to use the eric as a legal instrument to create and operate research infrastructure. this report aims to change the rules for setting up an eric by making them more flexible. it also aims to enable associated countries to participate fully in the establishment and operation of eric consortia as members or as host countries and to contribute to those infrastructures. this is without prejudice to the importance of simplifying the creation of world-class research infrastructures in europe, with the added value they can bring in terms of enhancing the quality of research and teaching, the links established between researchers and, in general, their positive socio-economic impact. however, we do not agree that the creation of large infrastructures will only create more opportunities for excellence, which will lead to certain countries being the main beneficiaries of the process. we want everyone to benefit, even those who cannot set up centres of excellence, to enable the democratisation of research in the most diverse fields.
in writing. − the eric regulation was adopted by the council in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and operation of european research infrastructures in non-economic ways. this regulation created a new legal instrument at eu level for the creation of european research infrastructures with legal personality recognised in all member states. the purpose of the proposed amendment to the eric regulation is to put an end to a situation where associated countries are not eligible to become host countries or members of an eric because their voting rights do not currently correspond to the financial support they would provide to eric projects. the proposed amendment to the regulation provides that an eric must be formed by at least one member state and joined by at least two member states or associated countries. it also provides that member states or associated countries shall jointly hold a majority of the voting rights in the general assembly. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the eric (european research infrastructure consortium) regulation has implemented a new legal instrument at european union level for the creation of european research infrastructures with legal personality recognised in all member states. this proposed amendment to the eric regulation aims to put an end to the current situation where associated countries are unable to meet the conditions to become host countries or members of an eric. i believe it is very important that the associated countries should have the opportunity to participate fully in the creation and activities of the eric consortia, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the regulation on a european research infrastructure (eric) was adopted by the council in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and operation of european research infrastructures in non-economic ways. this regulation created a new legal instrument at eu level for the creation of european research infrastructures with legal personality recognised in all member states. the associated countries, in particular norway, have clearly indicated that they intend to contribute, as host countries or as members, to a significant number of eric consortia that are in the pipeline, if they have voting rights in erics that are identical to those of eu member states. thus, the objective of the proposed amendment to the eric regulation is to put an end to a situation where associated countries are not eligible to become host countries or members of an eric. our concern with this system is that the creation of large infrastructures may only allow for more opportunities to achieve excellence in research in various fields, leading to certain countries being the main beneficiaries of the process. we want everyone to benefit, even those who cannot set up centres of excellence, to enable the democratisation of research in the most diverse fields.
i voted against this report because it confirms what was already the tendency, which was defined yesterday in this house, to impose macroeconomic conditionality, that is to say, to penalize twice the countries in difficulty if they do not meet the deficit and debt criteria. no sanctions of any kind are acceptable. we already have sanctions in the economic governance package that can go up to 1% of gdp and now these sanctions are being joined by sanctions relating to the structural funds that have nothing to do with the non-compliance with the deficit or the debt. this is another report which confirms that the european project is no longer a solidarity project and therefore cannot be supported.
i would like to say that i voted against this report for the same reasons as i voted yesterday against the multiannual financial framework. instead of a europe of solidarity, we have a europe of punishment, and in this report, as in the multiannual financial framework, what is envisaged is that countries which do not meet the debt and deficit target will be doubly penalized, in this particular case, in this report, with regard to the structural funds, the cohesion funds and the social funds. the countries which are not meeting the deficit and debt targets are the ones which have been punished the most, which have no possibility of public investment, and the adoption of these clauses only perpetuates austerity and increases the debt without any possibility of public investment.
madam president, i voted against this report because it confirms a historic change in the role of the structural funds. the funds are being transformed from a cohesion instrument into a sanction instrument, a sanction with a dubious legal basis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. it is a sanction which doubles the one already in place and enshrined in the six pack and which can amount to 1% of gdp. they double penalize some states and exempt others for similar violations. they will also penalise project promoters who will see the risk factor reflected in the financing conditions of projects financed by european funds. this is a total subversion of european objectives and it is regrettable that the european commission and the member states unanimously, as well as the majority of this parliament, are complicit in this decision which we will long regret. thank you very much.
in writing. − i abstain from this report because, in the context of the ongoing economic and financial crisis and the associated uncertainties, the need to consolidate public budgets requires greater innovation and the search for greater impact through available funding. cohesion policy, through the use of its instruments, in particular the structural funds and the cohesion fund, has long demonstrated its added value as an indispensable investment instrument for effectively promoting growth and job creation by specifically targeting investment to the needs of the regions. it has contributed not only to reducing disparities between member states and regions, but also to the economic recovery and development of the union as a whole. the same applies to the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. i cannot therefore fail to stress my opposition to macro-conditionality. it is unacceptable that in the context of cohesion policy only certain states are doubly penalized or that funds and investment capacity are withdrawn from a region because the respective member state has not fulfilled certain macroeconomic or financial obligations.
in writing. − in the context of the ongoing economic and financial crisis and the associated uncertainties, the need to consolidate public budgets requires greater innovation and the search for greater impact through available funding. cohesion policy, through the use of its instruments, specifically the structural funds (european regional development fund and european social fund) and the cohesion fund, has long demonstrated its added value as an indispensable investment instrument to effectively promote growth and job creation by specifically targeting investment to the needs of the regions. a sound management system for control and a clear yet flexible regulation on the use of financial instruments thus represent a determined commitment to a more appropriate and functional framework with the aim of developing a policy that promotes growth, employment and ensures the necessary confidence in the context of the current economic outlook. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the common provisions on the european funds, as i considered unacceptable the introduction of a clause providing for the possibility for the commission and the council to suspend, in part or in full, the structural funds already contracted with the member state in the event of non-compliance with the macroeconomic targets (deficit, debt, macroeconomic imbalances, etc.). this clause represents an unacceptable duplication of the sanctions already provided for, both in european legislation and in the lisbon treaty itself, and is a penalising measure for the cohesion member states, precisely those which most need these funds to get out of the crisis and combat unemployment. this punitive and discriminatory measure completely undermines the objectives of the structural funds, namely to accelerate real convergence within the eu and monetary union.
in writing. − the new cohesion policy rules aim to reduce red tape and support projects in areas such as innovation, research and energy efficiency. i am pleased that local and regional authorities are now more directly involved in decision-making and planning, since they are also the ones who know best the reality that will be invested in by these same funds. the report does, however, contain an element which is known as macroeconomic conditionality. i do not like that condition, but i abstained, because i understand that rejecting the report would only delay access to funds that are so important for the economic development of the eu.
in writing. these common provisions relate to the erdf, esf, cf, eafrd and emff. these are the funds of the common strategic framework which are intended to be implemented in 2014. the adoption of these common provisions was crucial for portugal. it should be noted that cohesion policy (erdf, esf, cf) has a financial envelope for portugal of around eur 19 600 million in 2011 prices. the eafrd has a financial envelope of 3.6 billion. at the moment, the emff regulation has not yet been adopted. it makes perfect sense to seek common provisions, which means simplifying the rules. in addition, there is a need for a link between funds, an integrated territorial strategy that can benefit from several funds. failure to adopt these common provisions was a penalty for portugal. we need to promote employment, economic growth and competitiveness, and these financial resources are essential for that. please note that we are talking about all the funds we have available and that we are negotiating through the partnership agreement. they represent more than eur 23.2 billion. the funds for direct payments to farmers, which amount to some eur 4.5 billion, are not covered by these provisions.
in writing. - through macroeconomic conditionality and the european semester, the common provisions of the so-called european structural and investment funds establish a permanent blackmailing of countries and regions, with the threat of programme cuts or suspension of payments for non-compliance with the dictates of institutions such as the european commission. blackmail to influence decisions on budgets, priorities and how the funds will be implemented decisions outside the institutions of national sovereignty. rules which are aimed primarily at the countries with the weakest economies, which means a total subjugation of countries such as portugal, subject to a programme of external intervention. conditionality aims to underline the subordination of these funds to the eu 2020 strategy and its neoliberal agenda by promoting investment in private or privatised infrastructure or public-private partnerships. objectives which are made clearer by the rejection of our proposals to give the funds new objectives, namely: to create jobs with rights; to defend and strengthen public services; to promote the sustainable development of the agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors with a view to ensuring the food sovereignty and security of the member states; to promote the development of the weakest productive systems and the member states with the greatest deficits; to clarify the public ownership and management of the infrastructure to be financed.
in writing. − cohesion policy, through the use of its instruments, in particular the structural funds (european regional development fund and european social fund) and the cohesion fund, has long demonstrated its added value as an indispensable investment instrument for effectively promoting growth and job creation. the reform of cohesion policy for the period after 2013 is appropriate and necessary to ensure a sustainable economic recovery and enhance competitiveness. the european parliament supports the strengthening of synergies between the five funds as well as with other relevant funds (horizon 2020, pmis, erasmus for all, cosme, life, etc.) through clearly defined strategic objectives and a more results-oriented process. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − more than 70 meetings were held between the european commission, the european parliament and the council to agree on the new cohesion policy regulations for the period 2014-2020, namely the common strategic framework (csf), the european regional development fund (erdf), the cohesion fund (cf), the european social fund (esf) and european territorial cooperation (etc). i would like to congratulate all the colleagues involved in the negotiations and say that we have finally reached an agreement which is not the best, but which ultimately satisfies the interests of the european regions, especially those of the outermost regions. i am voting in favour of this report because we are in a position to approve a new cohesion policy which guarantees madeira funding of eur 844 million, a cohesion policy which compensates madeira for the costs of the outermost regions by allocating eur 30 per inhabitant per year and a cohesion policy with co-financing rates of 85%. i would also point out that there will be no obligation to allocate 50% of the additional allocation in the ors to thematic objectives, which allows for greater versatility in the use of this appropriation.
in writing. − i support this report, considering that in order to achieve this social cohesion, the four main thematic objectives of the commission's proposal for the european social fund for the period 2014-2020 should be implemented: promoting employment and the mobility of workers, investing in education, skills and lifelong learning, promoting social inclusion and the fight against poverty and strengthening institutional capacity and the efficiency of public administration. i reiterate the importance of supporting young people at a time when 21% are unemployed in the european union and many others have left training systems without obtaining any qualifications. for this reason, the european social fund is the instrument of social integration through employment, with an integrated approach to supporting personalised or global pathways towards a goal of maximum and high quality employment. in addition, the social inclusion of the unemployed should be supported by ensuring access to adequate resources and services for all. however, i believe that a better recognition of the specific role of the social partners at all levels is essential for the successful operation of projects.
in writing. - the social and employment situation in the member states has never been so different. unemployment rates range from around 30% in greece to 4.9% in austria. rates in southern europe are the highest. youth unemployment is even more serious. in greece, spain and croatia, more than half of young people are unemployed. in portugal, the rates are slightly lower (36.9%). this is an alarming picture because it represents not only an individual loss for each young jobseeker but also a loss for society which cannot take advantage of the contribution of a skilled generation. at a time when all efforts must be concentrated on social investment to reduce unemployment, promote the raising of skills and the matching of skills and qualifications to the needs of enterprises, it is necessary to ensure a sufficient financial allocation to the european social fund. that is why i voted in favour of this report on the european social fund, which is an essential instrument to support employment, training and social inclusion.
in writing. - i believe that the european social fund (esf) should step up its support for the fight against poverty and social exclusion, to which it will allocate a minimum of 20% of each member state's total esf resources. i am pleased that the esf will also support efforts to combat youth unemployment and that at least three billion euros from the esf will be allocated to the youth employment initiative.
in writing. − the esf should improve employment opportunities, strengthen social inclusion, combat poverty, promote education, skills and lifelong learning and develop active, comprehensive and sustainable integration policies within the framework of the tasks conferred on it by article 162 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). it should contribute to the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring a greater focus of support on the priorities of the european union. the esf should therefore also contribute to the relevant aspects of the implementation of the flagship initiatives, such as the agenda for new skills and jobs, youth on the move and the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. it should also support relevant activities carried out under the digital agenda and innovation union initiatives. it should also be used to combat poverty and social exclusion, thus agreeing to a minimum amount of 20% of each member state's total esf resources specifically for this purpose. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the framework for esf action is laid down in the common provisions regulation. this regulation aims to define the mission, scope and investment priorities of the esf for 2014-2020. the general policy orientation for esf activities is to be strongly linked to the integrated guidelines of the eu 2020 strategy and to the country-specific recommendations developed in the framework of the european semester. the aim is to push for a more neoliberal strand of the esf, which is clear when one of the esf's investment priorities is: modernisation of labour market institutions such as public and private employment services, improving labour market fit-out, including measures to increase cross-border national mobility through mobility schemes and improved cooperation between institutions and relevant parties. however, there are positive aspects to the regulation, such as the allocation of a minimum of 20% of the total esf resources to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. there are other positive aspects, relating to equal opportunities and non-discrimination, the fight against early school leaving, vocational education and training, lifelong learning, work-life balance.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal for the european social fund (esf) for 2014-2020 makes important progress that deserves the support of the european parliament in effectively helping people to adapt to changes in the labour market by co-financing training and employment support projects: 1) allocating funds according to the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy; 2) thematic concentration and allocation of 20% of the fund funding in each member state to social inclusion and the fight against poverty; 3) better recognition of the role of social partners and non-governmental organisations, as well as; 4) simplification of procedures. it is worth noting that it was parliament which proposed and succeeded in having the esf strengthen its support for the fight against poverty and social exclusion by setting aside a minimum of 20% of each member state's total esf resources specifically for this purpose. i agree with what has been said and, bearing in mind the importance of this fund, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union is facing structural challenges linked to economic globalisation, technological developments, the increasing ageing of the workforce and skills and labour shortages in some sectors and regions. the european social fund has the broad aim of reducing the deep regional disparities across the european union in levels of development (gdp per capita), productivity, employment, education and poverty and to achieve the ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i consider the final outcome of the negotiations to be positive because it contributes to improving employment opportunities, education and training and the fight against social exclusion and poverty for thousands of european citizens. finally, i would like to stress as extremely positive the attention that the european authorities are giving to the youth employment initiative, which aims to support all those who have not yet been able to find a job, and portugal is to receive some 300 million euros.
in writing. − the european social fund is the eu's employment instrument and one of its aims is to enable eu citizens - especially young people - to enter, return to or retain a job. in europe, some 23 million people are unemployed and 30 million are at risk of social exclusion. in addition, youth unemployment (aged 15-24) is almost twice as high as unemployment overall. i therefore believe that it is particularly important to support young eu citizens, given that in 2012 23% of young people aged 15-24 in the eu were unemployed; in latvia, the figure is even higher, at 28%. many young people, when they complete compulsory education, do not continue their studies and do not acquire any of the qualifications needed to enter the labour market. the esf must therefore continue to promote vocational integration by making resources and services accessible to all, especially in rural areas, thus contributing to the achievement of maximum employment. i was pleased that we managed to secure €8 billion in the esf budget for youth employment, of which up to €6 billion will be invested in specific programmes over the next two years. latvia will have some €59 million available from 2014 to implement the 'youth guarantee', which will provide specific job, training or traineeship opportunities for young people aged 15 to 24.
in writing. the framework for esf action is laid down in the regulation on common provisions. this regulation aims to define the mission, scope and investment priorities of the esf for the period 2014-2020. the commission's original proposal was retained. the general policy orientation for esf activities is thus to be strongly linked to the europe 2020 integrated guidelines. the commission intends to put a more neoliberal element at the bottom. thus, in the article on the scope of intervention they consider that one of the esf investment priorities is: modernisation of labour market institutions such as public and private employment services, improvement of labour market fit, including measures to increase cross-border national mobility through mobility schemes and better cooperation between institutions and relevant parties. however, positive aspects were included in the regulation, such as the obligation to include a minimum amount of 20% of each member state's total esf resources to strengthen its support for the fight against poverty and social exclusion. we think that this fund should be strengthened and that it should not be subject to the principle of macro-conditionality, as it will be from now on. we abstained.
in writing. - i approve this report as it sets out the scope of the european regional development fund with regard to the european territorial cooperation objective. i would stress that one of the objectives must be to strengthen the strategic impact of the programmes and their focus on results in order to represent a positive development. i also believe that the administrative burden should be reduced and the rules should be more harmonized in order to facilitate the implementation of the programme and the overall success of cooperation. i also believe that the commission should, at the request of the european parliament or the council, present updated reports on the efficiency of cohesion policy and the added value and growth it generates. while the commission's proposal is a clear improvement in most areas, there is still some room for improvement, as i believe that the shortcomings in access, infrastructure and transport links in these key areas are really important issues, together with the lack of appropriate crossborder transport networks.
in writing. − the commission proposal for the erdf regulation for the period 2014-2020 has introduced a new innovation by introducing thematic concentration and strengthening the urban dimension. the european parliament has succeeded in broadening the scope of support by introducing the eligibility of small-scale cultural and sustainable tourism infrastructure, while also allowing support for productive investment in large enterprises. the text adopted provides a clearer and simpler framework for investment, as it ensures better coordination with other fund-specific regulations. this is an important step forward in improving coordination and strengthening synergies with these funds and their implementation, with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. for the first time, the erdf has introduced a mandatory urban dimension and ensured that greater attention is paid to urban development at a strategic level. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the reasons for the creation of the european regional development fund continue to justify its maintenance. the crisis currently affecting the peripheral countries with particular violence shows how much remains to be done in reducing asymmetries and promoting similar levels of progress and development throughout the union. the erdf has been an important instrument in reducing these disparities and should therefore continue to contribute to structural development and convergence throughout the union. i hope that the implementation of the erdf will increasingly respond to the specific needs of the people, activities and projects for which it is intended and will be marked by greater flexibility in its granting and rigour in its management and control. without a proper cohesion policy that is responsive to the needs of the regions in need, the union as a political and economic project will hardly make its way.
in writing. − cohesion policy funds are crucial to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the priorities of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. it is essential that the eu and the member states make efforts and establish priorities and strategies for intervention in this regard. the erdf and the cf contribute to employment by boosting economic growth. the erdf should also support innovation, research, the climate change objective and will have to boost the economy through support for smes and entrepreneurship. the erdf may support investments that respect the priorities and objectives of eu 2020. in this context, we must not forget inclusive growth and, in particular, economic, territorial and social cohesion. i therefore underline the work done and the importance of this report, which contributes to a clearer and simpler investment framework, thanks to significant improvements in the coordination and enhancement of synergies with the funds and their implementation, with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the stated objective of increasing the added value of interventions.
in writing. − the degree of autonomy of the institutions of national sovereignty in relation to the partnership plans and the implementation of the eu 2020 guidelines is practically nil, with the promotion of a greater centralisation of decisions in the eu and the establishment of a command line that ignores any democratic principle. the implementation of the funds, which must comply with the criteria and political guidelines laid down and be subject to macroeconomic conditionality and the european semester process, will not be a plan to help overcome the growing differences between countries or to make up for the shortcomings and fragility of the productive systems of countries such as portugal, but rather a plan to specialize countries and territories in accordance with their current situation, in particular as regards the source of resources and the suppliers of labour without rights and poorly paid. the investment priorities under the growth and jobs objective demonstrate this. this is essentially aimed at promoting private infrastructure investment or privatisation, or at promoting the (well-known) public-private partnerships, whether in the field of water, energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructure, which are essentially dominated today by the large private monopolies linked to the major powers of the eu.
in writing. − the proposal submitted by the european parliament extends the scope of the fund by introducing the eligibility of small-scale cultural and sustainable tourism infrastructures. the compromise package adopted on thematic concentration also includes a number of provisions arising from the ep's mandate to provide greater flexibility in this area. the most important aspect is the inclusion of an additional thematic objective among the mandatory objectives and the introduction of a separate concentration mechanism in the category of transition regions. in addition, a set of derogations proposed by parliament, in particular as regards the specific needs of regions with phased-out status in the period 2007-2013 and nuts 2 regions consisting exclusively of islands, as well as a derogation for sparsely populated northern regions, were included in the package. the compromise also included an important provision, resulting from the mandate of the european parliament, on the derogation for productive investments in companies in the outermost regions, irrespective of their size. in view of all the above, i have voted in favour of this fund.
in writing. - i support the document in question on the regulation of the new structural funds of the european regional development fund (erdf) because the outermost regions have made significant gains during the negotiations. the most important of these concerns the elimination of the thematic concentration in the additional specific allocation for the outermost regions, so that the autonomous region is not obliged to allocate 50% of this amount to the thematic objectives. also in the additional specific allocation, all enterprises are now eligible, instead of only smes. the erdf will make eligible investments in cultural infrastructure and the promotion of sustainable tourism, as well as transport infrastructure promoting local and regional mobility. one of the latest amendments to the erdf regulation relates to the change in the category of the madeira region in the structural funds. instead of being classified as a more developed region and having to allocate 80% of the funds it will receive to 4 specific sectors of economic activity, in future madeira will be classified as a less developed region due to its economic and social conditions and will thus only have to allocate 50% of the funds to the 4 sectors concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european regional development fund and the objective of european territorial cooperation, because this cooperation between different member states will make it possible to respond better to common challenges and to increase the effectiveness of investments through joint actions.
in writing. - the european territorial cooperation aspect deserved particular attention from the european commission in the framework of the european regional development fund. i believe that this is justified by the increasingly cross-border nature of most of the problems facing states and regions. the need to go beyond borders and to promote the search for joint solutions to common problems is at the very heart of the european communities and, at the present stage of the union's evolution, it must seek to go beyond its territorial boundaries and involve its neighbours.
in writing. − under the european territorial cooperation (etc) objective, the european regional development fund (erdf) supports crossborder and transnational cooperation. environmental protection and the promotion of resource efficiency, especially in the water sector, are areas that should benefit from the etc. these aspects are of increased importance as the challenges faced by member states and regions are increasingly transnational and cross-border, requiring joint and cooperative action at the most appropriate territorial level. the etc will also make an important contribution to furthering the lisbon treaty objective of territorial cohesion. portugal and spain have chronic drought problems and should therefore better coordinate the management of this resource, which is essential for agriculture and tourism, and remove obstacles to labour mobility and the integration of crossborder work, especially in relation to the national initiative for the promotion of employment among young people, which favours the exchange of technical knowledge and joint innovative projects.
in writing. - the objectives of this european territorial cooperation are very clear. they want to overcome the remaining obstacles to the functioning of the eu's single market, in particular those related to the obstacles to the free movement of goods and the migration of workers between countries, based not on their interests and aspirations (and taking advantage of the hardship imposed on them) but on the needs of capital. it is not cooperation based on mutual benefit, solidarity and the sovereignty and complementary interests of the countries involved, which we would agree with, but rather on getting rid of the obstacles to the sovereign and national development models that persist. as we have said on many occasions, cooperation and integration are a reality and a necessity, enhanced by the development of the productive forces, particularly technological and scientific development, and can be in the interests of the people or of big capital and the great powers. the objectives pursued by this territorial cooperation are clearly against the peoples.
in writing. - according to the european commission's proposal, european territorial cooperation would support three types of cooperation: crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation. transnational cooperation would be particularly valuable in strengthening the eu's social cohesion, as well as the recently launched macro-regions and sea basin strategies. interregional cooperation between eu regions (and, if necessary, third countries) aims to strengthen exchanges of experience on the implementation of cohesion policies, in particular through the dissemination of good practice. in the context of european territorial cooperation, this paper seeks to introduce the need to assess the efficiency of cohesion policy and the added value and growth it generates. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european territorial cooperation programme aims to strengthen territorial cohesion by sharing good practices and experiences between regions, to give a new impetus to the development of joint projects between european union territories and to create networks between regions with common resources and strategies. i am voting in favour of this regulation because, in the negotiations that have taken place, the european parliament has succeeded in introducing a flexibility of 150 km in crossborder cooperation programmes, so that madeira and the azores can receive more money to promote cooperation with neighbouring regions and benefit from more european funds in this area of programming. the importance of developing projects between the outermost regions and third countries is also emphasised, thus giving a new strategic impetus to relations between madeira and cape verde. in addition, the ors should receive at least 150% of the funds they received under the erdf in 2007-2013 and an additional financial envelope of eur 50 million for interregional cooperation projects.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in the context of the legislative package for cohesion policy as proposed by the commission, the cohesion fund is part of the new common strategic framework funds which will cover the structural funds, the cohesion fund, as well as the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. although the commission is proposing a new framework for the funds, the scope and specific objectives for the cohesion fund are not drastically changed compared to the current programming period. in its proposal for a regulation laying down common provisions for all the funds which will replace the current general regulation (the gfr), the commission advocates a different structure of missions and objectives for the funds, assigning them to the investment for growth and jobs goal in order to contribute to the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it should also be noted that the issue of macroeconomic conditionality was widely discussed and it was ultimately decided to leave decisions on this issue to the drc negotiations, which were considered the most appropriate framework to address the problem from a more general perspective.
in writing. − i welcome the cohesion funds for 2014-2020 approved by the european parliament, which should help regions make investments that will enable them to overcome the current economic crisis. over the next seven years portugal will receive eur 19.6 billion (at 2011 prices) and will benefit until the end of 2015 from the increase in the maximum rate of community co-financing from 85% to 95%. in particular, i am pleased that the new cohesion policy rules are less bureaucratic and that they support projects in areas such as innovation, research and energy efficiency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion fund, as it will make it possible to provide financial support to member states with lower per capita incomes by co-financing key projects and infrastructure, in particular in the area of the environment, which will help to support the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors, promote adaptation to climate change and risk prevention and management, as well as protect the environment and promote energy efficiency.
in writing. − the cohesion fund is part of the new common strategic framework funds which will cover the structural funds, the cohesion fund, as well as the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. in the proposal for a regulation laying down common provisions for all the funds which will replace the current general regulation, the commission advocated a different structure of missions and objectives for the funds, assigning them to the investment for growth and jobs goal in order to contribute to the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the cohesion fund will also contribute to this objective and mission by supporting member states with a gross national income per capita below 90% of the eu-27 average, thus enabling a larger share of the eu population to be covered.
in writing. − the cohesion fund is intended to help member states whose gdp per capita is less than 90% of the eu-27 average to reduce economic and social backwardness and to stabilise the economy. it supports investments in the ten-t transport networks and in the environment. it will support energy-related projects, provided that they have clear environmental benefits, for example by promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy. it will support investments in climate change adaptation and risk prevention, in the water and waste sectors, in low-carbon transport systems and in urban transport. in view of the importance of the cohesion fund, i regret once again the reduction in funds for this area for the 2014-2020 mff, as the amount allocated to it in the current framework has been reduced from eur 71 billion to eur 68.7 billion (at constant 2011 prices). in this context, i would stress the position already taken by the european parliament and reiterated by the rapporteur on the need for increased resources to achieve the political and legal objectives also agreed by the member states for 2014-2020.
in writing. − the cohesion fund - which is now subject to macroeconomic conditionality and the european semester - has been reduced compared to the current financial framework (2007-2013). that means less money and more difficulties in using it. moreover, priorities are inadequate in the face of real needs. countries like portugal, which need to increase national production, maintain and create jobs, raise wages, are denied the supposed solidarity that would come from the funds, and their right to sovereign development is conditioned on them, in accordance with the rights and aspirations of their people. a significant part of this fund will be earmarked for the connecting europe facility. investment in network infrastructure linked to water and waste collection and distribution is promoted, citing the need for its rationalisation, with the clear aim of promoting its privatisation. the fight against climate change is one of the main objectives and the specialisation of regions and countries with weak productive sectors is one of them. by mystifying environmental problems, those responsible for them and the necessary measures. asymmetries in development are perpetuated, condemning large regions of countries such as portugal to a model of labour force providers and natural reserves where the projects of multinationals that dominate so-called green technologies and infrastructure will be implemented with public funding.
in writing. − cohesion funds will be subject to common provisions in several areas of programming and financial management. the cohesion fund, the erdf and the esf will continue to be subject to another set of common specific rules on programming, management and monitoring. although the commission is proposing a new framework for the funds, the scope and specific objectives for the cohesion fund are not drastically changed compared to the current programming period. as regards investment priorities (article 3), environmental issues have received particular attention, with a major commitment being made in the water and waste sectors, where investments are not only intended to meet the requirements of the union's environmental acquis, but also to respond to needs identified by member states that go beyond those requirements. support for the natura 2000 network and green transport is also a result of this approach. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the cohesion fund aims to support member states with a gni per capita below 90% of the eu27 average to integrate into the european union's single market by financing essential transport infrastructure and promoting compliance with environmental standards, through support for energy-related projects, provided that they have clear environmental benefits, such as the promotion of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy. i am voting in favour of this cohesion fund regulation because portugal and madeira are largely benefiting from the changes introduced during the negotiations. the european parliament has succeeded in widening the range of eligible projects, so that those in the area of transport infrastructure can now be financed, particularly those most useful to the portuguese maritime (commercial and passenger ports) and air transport regions. in addition, in the next programming period (2014-2020), the structural funds may also support inter-island transport systems, intermodal links or the urban regeneration of madeiran cities.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the revision of the regulation has been making good progress after a period of contentious but fruitful tripartite negotiations with the irish presidency and the european commission. i would first like to point out what i consider to be one of the most significant improvements introduced by the draft report, which is linked to the approval process for a grouping, which will be tacitly approved at the end of a six-month period granted to the competent national authorities to examine the application. this amendment provides legal certainty to applicants who have often been faced with serious disruptions and unjustified delays in the procedure. it should also be noted that the groupings will be open to all public undertakings providing public services, including those governed by private law. our amendments on this point have been accepted by the council, which will facilitate and encourage territorial cooperation in areas such as transport, energy or water supply, as well as health, education and vocational training.
in writing. − a european grouping for territorial cooperation (egtc) will be tacitly approved at the end of a six-month period granted to the competent national authorities to examine the application. this amendment provides legal certainty to applicants who have often been faced with serious disruptions and unjustified delays in the procedure. the fact that there is a considerable reduction in the time and bureaucracy of the process is a positive. coordinated efforts will be made to raise awareness among the institutions, member states and regions of the potential offered by egtcs as instruments of territorial cooperation, in order to improve the visibility of the multiple facets of egtcs.
in writing. − in the face of the shortage of financial resources and the challenges we face, which call for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, it is essential to ensure an integrated and territorial approach to the interventions advocated and supported through community investments and funds in order to ensure favourable conditions for the creation of more value and greater efficiency of the responses. at local and regional level, involving municipalities, associations, universities and businesses, we need to build synergies and work together. partnerships are built that create growth and development. in this regard, european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtcs) can play a decisive role in the success of the europe 2020 strategy and in achieving its objectives. this report aims to promote a clear, precise and more exhaustive definition of the constitution and implementation of egtcs, also opening the door to the participation of third countries. i would also like to emphasise the role of the committee of the regions in monitoring and supporting the clusters.
in writing. the objectives of the european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtc) are simplification and rapid authorisation, legal certainty, reduction of red tape and extension of their scope to the areas of public transport, energy, water supply, health, education and vocational training. apart from the objectives and the framework, the provisions for the employment of staff of the egtcs are controversial in this proposal. the regulation for the new programming period proposes a light version of the bolkestein directive, providing that members of egtcs may choose between the labour law of the country where the grouping is based and the national law of the officials concerned. as we have said before, what is at stake is not mutual cooperation, based on solidarity and the sovereignty and complementary interests of the countries involved, which we would agree with, but rather the removal of the obstacles to the sovereign and national development models that persist.
in writing. − one of the most significant improvements introduced by the draft report relates to the approval process for an egtc (european grouping of territorial cooperation), which will be tacitly approved at the end of a six-month period granted to the competent national authorities to examine the application. this amendment provides legal certainty to applicants who have often been faced with serious disruptions and unjustified delays in the procedure. (however, there is a derogation from this rule for the member state where the egtc is to be established and which will require formal approval). a joint statement by the european parliament, the council and the commission, to be attached at the end of the discussions, will invite member states to ensure clarity, effectiveness and transparency in the authorisation of new egtcs within the timeframe provided. in view of these and other improvements, i have voted in favour of this procedure.
in writing. − the regulation on european groupings of territorial cooperation aims to facilitate the creation of structures between member states which are responsible for managing european territorial cooperation projects. i am voting in favour of this regulation because it introduces amendments which aim, on the one hand, to respect the terminology introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and, on the other hand, to fill in the gaps and points which have been identified and which could be improved. the european commission proposes simplifying the way in which the egtcs operate, reviewing their activities in practice by laying down clear and objective rules on recruitment of staff, expenditure and protection of creditors, and finally considering the possibility of regions outside the european union being part of the egtcs.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that over the years many member states have taken initiatives to combat effectively the problem of gender imbalance. some member states have sought to increase the low representation of women on boards through the adoption of legislation, thereby considerably speeding up the process of achieving a balanced representation of men and women on boards. others have limited themselves to encouraging proactive initiatives and measures taken by enterprises, which has proved to be quite useful but still insufficient to achieve tangible results. in this context, it is important to note the heterogeneity that exists in the european union, both in terms of measures and results. in my view, in order to effectively meet the challenges it faces in the vulnerable context of the current economic crisis, the european union must use all the human capital it has at its disposal to achieve growth and promote competitiveness and improve the financial performance of enterprises. measures aimed at achieving a better balance between men and women on boards of directors contribute to this objective.
in writing. − in 2012, in the european union, only 8.9% of the chief executives of large companies were women. and women held the position of chairman of the board of directors in only 2.4% of the companies. if the european situation is worrying, the portuguese situation is no better. in october 2012, only 7,4% of the board members of the largest portuguese companies (listed in the psi 20) were women. this is about half the european average of 15.8%. none of these portuguese companies had a woman as chairman of the board of directors (the european average is 3.3%). and none of these companies had a woman as ceo (the european average was 2.4%, as you can see from the top of the building). equality between men and women is a fundamental right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but the reasons for fighting for gender parity in top positions are not just about social justice issues. gender parity at the top contributes to improving the performance and competitiveness of companies.
in writing. - as i have said many times in this house, men and women must be treated equally, given the same rights but with special consideration for their needs, which in the case of women is particularly evident in areas such as maternity protection and reconciling work and family life. but i do not agree that gender equality is achieved through quota systems. quotas are the undermining of women, who are promoted to certain positions solely on the basis of their gender and not on the basis of their competence, ability or appetite. the commission's intention to apply them to private undertakings is therefore inadmissible. finally, as a staunch supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that many of the issues discussed in this report, although important and relevant, should remain within the sphere of the autonomy of the states.
in writing. − gender equality, particularly the challenge of establishing equal access for men and women to positions of power and influence, is a key challenge for the european union. the eu has been a major player in this area and has taken on a clear role as a global player in the fight against discrimination. however, despite the best efforts that have been made, the goal of gender equality is far from being achieved. it is therefore important to ensure that legislation is as effective as possible in order to reinforce this european desire. we all stand to gain from the prevalence of merit and greater transparency in the recruitment of executives to the boards of companies and public institutions. in this context, it is of great importance to establish a clear common strategy for all member states with a view to achieving the common objective of achieving by 2020 a minimum of 40% for the under-represented sex among non-executive directors in privately listed companies, with that deadline being lowered to 2018 for publicly listed companies.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal for a directive is to substantially increase the number of women on boards of directors of companies across the eu - a goal which we can share. however, it does so by setting a minimum target of 40% of members of the under-represented sex among non-executive directors of listed companies and by requiring companies in which the number of members of the under-represented sex is below that percentage to apply, in order to achieve that target, pre-established criteria in their selection procedures to fill those positions. in other words, it does so by resorting to the logic of quotas, in a way that is not without ambiguities and contradictions and with which we disagree. there are aspects of the report which merit our agreement. we disagree about others. but at a time when the economic and social crisis and its effects are worsening, when women are being hit the hardest, when gender inequalities are widening, when the situation of women workers is worsening, the priority given by the commission to this issue of gender equality in the boards of directors is questionable to say the least.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as a whole, but against the creation of a measure, albeit temporary, aimed at establishing a clear common strategy for all member states to achieve a common objective: the presence of at least 40% of the under-represented sex among non-executive directors by 2020 for privately listed companies, and by 2018 for publicly listed companies. i am a strong supporter of gender equality, considering that the quota system should be applied very carefully and not generically, and i consider it to be an unfair and harmful interference in the economic activity of companies.
in writing. − in november 2012, the european commission put forward a proposal that aims to substantially increase the number of women on boards of directors of companies across the eu, setting a minimum target of 40% of members of the underrepresented sex among non-executive directors of listed companies. i am in favour of actions to promote greater gender equality in the workplace, boardroom renewal, promoting the issue in business schools and new ways to encourage sociocultural change. however, i am against the setting of quotas at any time, and in this case the aim is to set a minimum quota limit of 40% for the underrepresented sex on the boards of directors, which is the factor which led me to vote against the regulation in question. i believe that the quota system should not be implemented under any circumstances, and that citizens should be able to reach business or political positions according to their competence, university studies or technical knowledge to the detriment of their gender. i also believe that the european authorities should not interfere in the executive and non-executive management bodies of private companies.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive aims to substantially increase the number of women on boards of directors of companies across the eu by setting a minimum target of 40% of members of the underrepresented sex among non-executive directors of listed companies and by requiring companies with less than this percentage of members of the underrepresented sex to apply, in order to achieve this target, pre-established criteria to fill these positions, with the exception of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2020. the situation in 2012 was as follows: 85% of non-executive members and 91.1% of executive board members are men, while women represented 15% and 8.9% respectively. the report supports this position and considers that companies that fail to comply with the rules of this directive should be obliged to explain the reasons to the competent national authorities of the states and should be sanctioned. this is another make-up operation to pretend to strengthen equality between men and women, when most women are losing the labour, social and economic rights so essential to their independence. this reality will not change one iota with this directive.
in writing. - i approve this report, stating that from the beginning of this process i have been fighting for a genuine reform of the cap capable of becoming a fairer policy in the distribution of aid, more sustainable and competitive, guaranteeing productive and profitable agricultural holdings throughout the union. the truth is that in many respects we have not gone as far as we wanted to go and in others we have fallen short of what was needed, as in the dairy sector. we have, however, managed to move the cap in the right direction by giving value to producer organisations, inter-branch organisations, agricultural research and innovation, supporting young farmers and giving simplified treatment to small farmers, introducing production and income risk management supported by insurance systems. i would like to conclude by saying that i am concerned, however, about the areas which have not been resolved by the reform and which are essential to resolve, such as the continuation of milk production in the outermost regions and in mountain regions, the abuse of a dominant position in the food chain and the lack of mechanisms for regulating supply in the milk sector.
in writing. − this regulation lays down the rules for the financing of expenditure under the cap, including rural development, the agricultural advisory system, the management and control systems to be set up by the member states, the system of cross-compliance and the clearance of accounts. it is, of course, imbued with the spirit of reform. the path outlined here is that of deepening the general guidelines of the cap, i.e. that of liberalization and deregulation, which leaves portugal further away from what should be the first objective of an agricultural policy: ensuring food security and food sovereignty in each country in a sustainable way. we voted against it. the hundreds of amendments we have proposed to the various regulations have shown that it is possible to achieve another result, namely by giving guarantees to small farmers and family farming. it was proposed that the scandalous inequalities in direct payments between countries and producers should be eliminated by 2020, and these inequalities persist with this reform. we are in favour of another regulation of the markets, capable of ensuring fair prices for production and instruments for regulating production, adapted to the needs of each country and its relative level of production capacity, allowing differentiated development in countries with higher deficits.
in writing. − the attempt to concentrate in a single instrument all the provisions and requirements for the implementation of the common agricultural policy has the meritorious purpose of making them more readable and accessible, which was not always easy, and is another attempt to make it more rational and efficient and less bureaucratic. the financing, management and monitoring of the cap must not only meet criteria of reasonableness, adequacy and proportionality but also be capable of being understood and scrutinized. it is therefore called upon to increase transparency and to make a constant effort to reduce bureaucracy.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy (cap) has been thoroughly redesigned and adapted to the challenges and needs of the new times, in a process of optimising resources and mechanisms which is also based on the experience of the 51 years of the cap, which has been very successful in meeting the objectives of providing eu citizens with enough food at affordable prices, while respecting food security and ensuring a decent standard of living for farmers. in this context, the reform of the cap must cover all its main instruments, regulation, financing and monitoring. a reform that will help implement a greener cap and correct the problem of low farmer incomes: the average wage of a non-agricultural worker in the eu is 40% lower than the average wage of a non-agricultural worker in the eu. the new cap will respond to the challenges posed by a highly competitive global market, climate change, soil saturation, population growth, ageing populations and rural neglect. farmers face a twofold challenge: to produce more food on an economically viable basis, and at the same time to protect nature and safeguard biodiversity. to do this, the cap must rely on research and innovation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financing, management and surveillance of the common agricultural policy, as i considered that the compromise text resulting from the trilogues significantly improves on the commission's initial proposal. in this particular case, i would like to highlight as a particularly positive factor the fact that the horizontal regulation lays down reasonable rules on expenditure in the agricultural advisory system, the management and control systems to be implemented by the member states, the cross-compliance system and the clearance of accounts, so that they are feasible without any increase in complexity or bureaucracy.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the legislative package on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) from 2014, in whose legislative procedure the european parliament for the first time decides on an equal footing with the council. the main results of the document are the new control and sanction systems, the alert system, the reduction in the number of controls and the reduction of the risk related to the control procedure, the reduction of bureaucracy, better proposals on the agricultural council system and the monitoring and evaluation of the cap. i therefore voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that small investors are increasingly faced with the offer of a wide variety of different types of products when they wish to make an investment. these products often offer specific investment solutions tailored to the needs of small investors, but are often complex and difficult to understand. the information currently disclosed to investors for those investment products is uncoordinated and often does not allow retail investors to compare different products and understand their characteristics. as a result, small investors often make investments with risks and costs that they do not fully understand and therefore suffer unforeseen losses on occasion. it is therefore necessary to establish uniform rules at union level on transparency, which apply to all participants in the investment products market, in order to avoid divergences. i also think that a regulation is needed to ensure that a common standard is established for key information documents, so that the format and content of these documents can be harmonized. the directly applicable rules of a regulation should ensure that all participants in the investment products market are subject to the same requirements.
in writing. − the main objective of this regulation is to ensure that investors have access to the essential data, characteristics and risks of the investment products in which they intend to invest their capital and are able to compare their different characteristics. the same rules should therefore apply to all those who issue and sell investment products in the eu, and it should be ensured that certain investment products are accompanied by documents or other information aids relating to them. therefore, issuers of those products should produce accompanying information documents to enable investors to gather key information and make an informed investment. in this report, some differences between political groups were mainly found in the scope of the legislation (which types of products to include or not). this will include, inter alia, equity products, investment funds, structured products and certain insurance products. the decision to postpone this motion for a resolution so that it can be renegotiated with the council of the eu has been adopted, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the main objective of this regulation is to ensure that investors have access to the essential data, characteristics and risks of the investment products in which they intend to invest their capital and are able to compare their different characteristics. the same rules should therefore apply to all those who issue and sell investment products in the eu, and it should be ensured that certain investment products are accompanied by documents or other information aids relating to them. therefore, issuers of those products should produce accompanying information documents to enable investors to gather key information and make an informed investment. in this report, some differences between political groups were mainly found in the scope of the legislation (which types of products to include or not). this will include, inter alia, equity products, investment funds, structured products and certain insurance products. the decision to postpone this motion for a resolution so that it can be renegotiated with the council of the eu has been adopted, and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. − this proposal aims to restore consumer confidence in financial markets by taking a thorough look at the insurance mediation directive (imd) to ensure that consumers enjoy a high level of protection when they wish to make an investment. small investors are increasingly confronted with the offer of a wide variety of different types of products, most of which are complex and difficult to understand. the information currently disclosed to investors for those investment products is uncoordinated and often does not allow retail investors to compare different products and understand their characteristics. that is why i welcome this initiative.
in writing. − the main objective of this regulation is to ensure that investors have access to the essential data, characteristics and risks of the investment products in which they intend to invest their capital and are able to compare their different characteristics. the same rules should therefore apply to all those who issue and sell investment products in the eu, and it should be ensured that certain investment products are accompanied by documents or other information aids relating to them. therefore, issuers of those products should produce accompanying information documents to enable investors to gather key information and make an informed investment. in this report, some differences between political groups were mainly found in the scope of the legislation (which types of products to include or not). this will include, inter alia, equity products, investment funds, structured products and certain insurance products. the decision to postpone this motion for a resolution so that it can be renegotiated with the council of the eu has been adopted, and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. − under the guise of better information on financial products for small investors, this report seeks to promote greater transparency in these products. by providing investors with advance information about the gains and risks and associated costs, they try to restore what they call investor confidence in times of crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment from harmful substances. it is also a question of legitimising products whose return is not fixed, depending on the financial markets. each product offers the investor a set of potential gains and risks of loss with associated costs that reduce their financial return. this report is based on the logic of the free and unregulated movement of capital, which is responsible for increasing instability and the risk of financial crises, with consequences for economic growth and employment. not for a moment is it questioned.
in writing. - in this report, some differences between political groups were mainly found in the scope of the legislation (which types of products to include or not). this will include, inter alia, equity products, investment funds, structured products and certain insurance products. the main objective of this regulation is to ensure that investors have access to the essential data, characteristics and risks of the investment products in which they intend to invest their capital and are able to compare their different characteristics. the same rules should therefore apply to all those who issue and sell investment products in the eu and it should be ensured that certain investment products are accompanied by documents or other information aids relating to them. therefore, issuers of those products should produce accompanying information documents to enable investors to gather key information and make an informed investment. attention to differences between groups the decision to postpone this motion for a resolution so that it can be renegotiated with the council of the eu has been adopted, and i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. the following report advocates the creation of a key information document for investment products. the aim is not only to restore consumer confidence in financial markets but also to ensure that investors have access to essential data (characteristics and risks) about the products in which they wish to invest. it is therefore proposed that all savings and investment products, without exception, be accompanied by a kid key information document, available to all consumers. this information package should contain a number of information such as the specificities of the product in question, a risk indicator and details of the manufacturer and distributor. the aim is to establish a common rule for all those who issue and sell investment products in the european area. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − by providing investors with advance information on the gains and risks and associated costs, this report expresses the aim of restoring what it calls investor confidence in times of crisis. while the issue of prior information to investors is crucial, this report proposes a discharge for the creators of financial products and those who market them, based on the assumption that a prior information document will hold the investor responsible for buying inappropriate products and may lose all of his investment. the creation of eu guarantee stamps is an attempt to promote their marketing. it is also a matter of legitimising products whose return is not fixed, depending on the financial markets - each product offers the investor a set of potential gains and risks of loss with associated costs that reduce their financial return. the report, in addition to being in line with the lisbon strategy, proposes the loss of effective sovereignty over the control of financial services markets and their operators. it does not condemn the free movement of capital and the speculative nature of the market, based on the short term and the creation of value, which is responsible for increasing instability and the risk of financial crises, with devastating consequences for economic growth and employment.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that rural development is an important part of the sustainable development of the regions of the european union. the european agricultural fund for rural development is not only linked to the common agricultural policy but also closely linked to the european union's objective of strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union as defined in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has therefore proposed a common strategic framework for all the funds for future multiannual financial planning, including for the eafrd. in this context, the funds should interlink to increase the synergy effect of the investment of resources and thus achieve maximum added value. at the same time, the bureaucratic hurdles for local leaders in using various funds are reduced. even rural areas benefit from the integrated use of all funds. however, in my view the commission has failed, in many respects, to implement these items consistently in the eafrd regulation.
in writing. − i welcome the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) approved by the european parliament, which includes more environmentally friendly, fairer measures between member states and farmers and more transparent measures for the period 2014-2020. the cap will have a budget of €362.8 billion over the next seven years. portugal will receive eur 8,1 billion (at 2011 prices). under the new rules, the maximum rate of community co-financing for rural development in the least developed and outermost regions in portugal is increased from 85% to 95%, at least until 2016.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european agricultural fund for rural development, as i thought that the rapporteur had done an excellent job of ensuring that the new common agricultural policy is better for farmers and the environment, through measures such as the increase in the co-financing rates for agri-environmental measures and the definition that at least 30% of the investments will be directed towards the implementation of these measures.
in writing. - while the interinstitutional agreement reached is not the ideal one, it is nevertheless the one that is possible in highly sensitive and technical matters such as agriculture. it is not too much to recall the priorities for rural development: fostering knowledge transfer and innovation; strengthening competitiveness; promoting the organisation of food chains and risk management; restoring, preserving and improving ecosystems; promoting resource efficiency and the transition to a low-carbon economy; promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas. it is particularly clear that the social function of agriculture goes far beyond food production. without this notion it is not possible to understand much of the policy options which arise in particular from the needs of territorial occupation, of protecting the environment of the settlement of populations. i would stress parliament's concern to provide young farmers with better conditions for carrying out their activities. i hope that young people who wish to do so will be able to take up agricultural projects and that they will be able to do so in a sustained way so as to rejuvenate the sector and give it the new vitality that the union so badly needs.
in writing. - rural development is a european priority. given that almost 60% of the population of the 28 eu member states live in rural areas and that these cover 90% of the territory, the importance of a living and sustainable natural area for european citizens is clear. here too, technological and organisational innovation, as well as innovation and knowledge transfer, must remain at the heart of the rural development strategy. more emphasis should be placed on private investment and increased coordination between research institutions and other stakeholders in rural areas in order to strengthen support for the competitiveness of these regions. i would also stress the concern and the need to solve the problems of young farmers with access to agricultural land by enabling the member states to have recourse to more support and financial instruments. in this context, i support the present report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd).
in writing. − this regulation lays down the general rules for eu support for rural development financed by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). it defines the objectives to which rural development policy should contribute and the specific priorities in this area, including the strategic context of rural development policy, measures, rules and programming, management, monitoring and evaluation, based on shared responsibilities between the member states and the commission. the proposal for a regulation follows the logic of the cap reform, which we have been criticising. in general, it does not reflect, as it should, the needs of supporting and enhancing national agriculture, especially small and mediumsized farmers and family farming, thus helping to reverse the economic, social and human desertification of the rural world. it is regrettable that the need to use socioeconomic criteria in addition to biophysical criteria (predominantly oriented towards the reality of some countries to the detriment of others) is not considered in the definition of less-favoured areas, as we have proposed. the gradual abolition of payments in areas which are no longer considered as less-favoured will have very negative effects. all this aggravates the shortcomings of this programme and the regulation now proposed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) because i consider that the compromise text resulting from the trilogues significantly improves the commission's initial proposal. in the case of the eafrd, i would point out as particularly positive the increase in support for investment in the forestry sector, which has traditionally been neglected, the 85% co-financing for all the axes, simplified cross-compliance, a crop insurance system with community funding and incentives for producer organisations to achieve scale-up and mergers. i would stress the inclusion of support for new irrigation, mainly for the southern countries, and in particular portugal, which was completely absent from the commission proposal.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the legislative package on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) from 2014, in whose legislative procedure the european parliament, for the first time, decides on an equal footing with the council. the proposed new regulation builds on the existing system whereby member states develop programmes tailored to their specific needs within the eu. knowledge transfer, innovation, the organisation of the food chain, risk management, young farmers and environmental protection are key themes under this regulation. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i abstain from voting on this report. from the beginning of this process i have been campaigning for a genuine reform of the cap, capable of becoming a fairer policy in the distribution of aid, more sustainable and competitive, guaranteeing productive and profitable farms throughout the union. the truth is that in many respects we have not gone as far as we wanted to go and in others we have fallen short of what was needed, as in the milk sector. we have, however, managed to move the cap in the right direction by giving value to producer organisations, inter-branch organisations, agricultural research and innovation, supporting young farmers and giving simplified treatment to small farmers, introducing production and income risk management supported by insurance systems. i am concerned, however, about the areas which have not been resolved by the reform and which are essential to resolve, such as the continuation of milk production in the outermost regions and in mountain regions, the abuse of a dominant position in the food chain or the absence of supply regulation mechanisms in the milk sector.
in writing. the common organisation of the markets should respond to one of the major problems facing millions of producers in the eu: ensuring fair prices for production; prices that compensate farmers for their work. instead, the cmos have become an obstacle to this. it could more properly be called the common disorganization of markets, such is the deregulatory and liberalizing spirit that inspires it. the end of milk quotas is having very serious consequences. the situation will only get worse when the liberalized market is flooded with milk from abroad at impossible prices, wiping out domestic dairy farms. then the ps, psd and cds - who approved this reform - will come crying crocodile tears over spilled milk. it is vital to maintain milk production quotas and to extend them to other sectors, quotas adjusted to the production needs of each member state and its relative level of installed production capacity, in order to allow the differentiated development of countries with the highest deficits in their respective sectors. we have put forward a number of important and innovative proposals, such as the creation of a maximum intermediation margin scheme or the introduction of a national preference scheme in countries with a persistent agri-food balance deficit. they were rejected.
in writing. - the common organization of the markets within the framework of the cap could not fail to play a significant role in its present reform. i would like to draw attention to the organizations of the market in sugar, wine and olive oil. the individual approach to each sector leads to greater care for each one and the challenges they face in practice, seeking to provide farmers, producer associations and consumers with more guarantees of the proper functioning of the agricultural market, which avoids excessive income gaps, favours the quality of products in circulation on the market and takes into account the non-exclusively productive dimensions of agriculture.
in writing. − in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy, also framed in the new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, the common organisation of the markets is an essential component and a high priority. improving regulation and reducing red tape for farmers are at the heart of the new regulation's concerns, which should contribute to the objectives set out in the cap reform. in a more efficient, intelligent, inclusive and sustainable europe, all excessive and unjustified administrative burdens and costs need to be eliminated. the harmonization, rationalisation and simplification of provisions and regulations is a priority. expenditure must be targeted at specific objectives to ensure the sound management of european funds with a view to providing basic public goods through a multifunctional cap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation) because i consider that the compromise text resulting from the trilogues significantly improves the commission's initial proposal. in the case of the single cap, i would point out as particularly positive the strengthening of the negotiating role of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations, the expansion of private storage, the establishment of a risk management system based on the setting up of mutual funds and the decisions taken in the wine and sugar sectors which allow them to evolve and adapt to the markets without any upheavals. i regret the treatment of the milk sector because of the absence of concrete measures to ensure its sustainability in our country and in the azores region after the end of milk quotas. in general terms, i believe that the cmu has safeguarded important mechanisms for the stability of agricultural markets.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the legislative package on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) from 2014, in whose legislative procedure the european parliament, for the first time, decides on an equal footing with the council. the proposal contains some substantial amendments to the regulations on the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products currently in force, in particular in an attempt to improve the functioning of the food chain by facilitating cooperation between farmers. a safety net for crisis situations on agricultural markets is also maintained. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account the new rules for direct payments which should ensure a fair and sustainable distribution of resources. i also support the idea of an ambitious greening of direct payments to farmers, which is one of the answers to today's environmental and social challenges. however, i believe that the current proposals are insufficient to allow the creation of advanced systems of sustainable agriculture, which are fundamental to the sustainable territorial development of rural areas. in this connection, i propose that measures be implemented to take greater account of rural areas in europe. on regional development, i call for a higher proportion of annual national ceilings to be allocated to supplementary support for rural development. in the same vein, i am opposed to any reduction in the amounts devoted to rural development. it is also important to claim that member states may decide before 1 august 2013 to apply the basic payment scheme at regional level, in which case they should define the regions according to objective and non-discriminatory criteria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on direct payments to farmers under support schemes under the cap, because it includes very positive proposals, particularly for the agricultural sector in portugal, such as aid for new irrigation infrastructure, more favourable treatment of crops which are very important for portuguese agriculture, such as olive groves, vineyards and orchards, the establishment of a specific support scheme for small farmers or support for young farmers.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation sought to give priority to the ecological component and to small farms and young farmers in direct payments. i hope that these will help to make the sector more attractive and competitive and will enable countries with high-quality products such as portugal to further improve their production capacity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. i welcome the rapporteur's efforts to find appropriate solutions in a difficult context of budgetary contraction.
in writing. − as an essential subject of the common agricultural policy and a major priority of the current reform, direct payments to farmers should better reflect the public service provided by farmers, particularly in relation to efforts to protect the environment. the term 'greening' is now applied to agricultural policy: 30% of direct aid will be conditional on the promotion of more environmentally friendly farming. direct aid should also be distributed more fairly and targeted at active farmers, supporting activity in the most disadvantaged regions. this will allow a balance to be struck between income support and the new public challenges, integrating environmental requirements in the first pillar of the cap in the form of a strong ecological component. by linking financial support to actions beneficial to the environment and climate, the reform seeks to involve all farmers in this issue and thus provides a new justification for supporting farmers' income. in addition, the financial interests of the union will be respected.
in writing. - the outcome of the negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission, if anything new has been brought about in relation to the reform proposal previously voted, has been for the worse. there is still a scandalous disparity in the distribution of direct payments to farmers between countries, farms and producers, which is even more marked than in the previous parliament proposal. portugal will also receive an average payment per hectare significantly lower than the european average at the end of 2020. this inequality will have all the more serious effects if, unlike in the past, the instruments of regulation of production and markets which still existed in the past, in particular production quotas, and which guaranteed each country the right to produce, are dismantled. it is this right that is at stake, even more clearly, with this reform. the inclusion, which we proposed, of a significant capping and modulation of the millionaire sums that are allocated to large landowners (without even being obliged to produce) was refused. this would allow a redistribution of amounts to small farms, while at the same time minimally balancing the distribution of direct payments between producers. recognising the lack of legitimacy of the cap in the eyes of farmers and the general public, this reform sought to counter it and achieve that legitimacy. it does, however, maintain and in some cases exacerbate all the vices of the present cap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy, as i considered that the compromise text resulting from the trilogues significantly improves the commission's initial proposal. in the specific case of direct payments, i would like to highlight as particularly positive the greater flexibility in cross-compliance, the progress made in external (although still insufficient) and internal convergence, the increase in support for young farmers, the simplified scheme for small farmers, the obligation to define an active farmer and greater transparency of the common agricultural policy through the mandatory disclosure of beneficiaries.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the legislative package on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) from 2014, in whose legislative procedure the european parliament for the first time decides on an equal footing with the council. the rules on direct payments are intended to take account of active farmers, small farmers, young farmers and issues related to flexibility between the pillars of the cap as regards the transfer of funds. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report by saying that i, like the whole european parliament, am in line with the other institutions of the european union and committed to allowing the cap reform to enter into force on 1 january 2014. however, it seems unlikely that all aspects of the cap reform can be implemented by 1 january 2014. transitional provisions are therefore necessary to define the technical arrangements which will allow for a smooth adaptation to the new conditions, while ensuring the continuity of the different forms of support under the cap. as regards direct payments, it is necessary to provide sufficient time for member states, paying agencies and farmers to prepare and to be informed in sufficient time and in detail of the new provisions applicable. therefore, the main elements of the existing schemes should be extended until the financial year 2014 and adjusted by the transitional provisions.
in writing. - a reform of the scale and impact of the common agricultural policy must involve the adoption of transitional provisions designed to mitigate the effect of the changes introduced and those imposed. it therefore seems to be the basic common sense to adopt legislation in this respect which would enable farmers and associations in the sector, in particular, to adapt more adequately to the new legal framework which governs their activity as well as to the community and state institutions respectively.
in writing. − given the importance of the common agricultural policy and the need to ensure a framework of stability and security at this stage of simultaneous reform of the cap and the entry into force of a new multiannual financial framework, it is of the utmost importance to establish a set of transitional provisions to ensure effective support for rural development and the proper functioning of the mechanisms established through the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). at this stage i would stress the importance of flexibility, which gives member states the possibility of transferring funds between the two pillars of the cap, albeit in a limited way.
in writing. − the reform of the common agricultural policy was due to enter into force on 1 january 2014. however, it is unlikely that all aspects of the cap can be implemented by the target date and therefore transitional provisions are needed to define the technical modalities that allow for a smooth adaptation to the new conditions and at the same time ensure the continuity of the different funding opportunities under the cap. regardless of whether we disagree with the content of the reform in progress, this need is evident and it is reasonable to respond to this need. as regards direct payments, the need is identified to allow the paying agencies and farmers time to prepare and inform themselves in advance of the details of the reform. given the approval of the 2014-2020 mff by parliament, the transitional provisions include an external convergence procedure and the flexibility mechanism between the two pillars of the cap. as regards rural development, the definition of transitional provisions aims to lay down provisions for the transition between the two programming periods and to determine how activities will continue under the new programming period, including their financing through a new budget.
in writing. − as the reform of the common agricultural policy already adopted is unlikely to be fully implemented as from 1 january 2014, it has become absolutely necessary to establish transitional provisions to define the technical modalities that will allow a smooth adaptation to the new conditions, while ensuring the continuity of the different forms of support under the cap. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the legislative package on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) from 2014, in whose legislative procedure the european parliament, for the first time, decides on an equal footing with the council. this document incorporates the european commission's proposals with some amendments, such as those concerning administrative burdens and the redistribution of payments in favour of the smallest farmers, among others. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i welcome this report by stating first that the global financial crisis and the unprecedented and prolonged economic recession have seriously affected economic growth and financial stability and have led to a sharp deterioration in financial, economic and social conditions in the member states. in particular, some member states are already facing or are at risk of facing serious difficulties, including problems of economic growth and financial stability, as well as a deterioration in the government deficit and debt situation, also reflected in the international economic and financial environment. while substantial measures have already been taken to counterbalance the negative effects of the crisis, including changes to the legal framework, the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy, the labour market and citizens is being widely felt. pressure on national financial resources is increasing and more urgent action is needed to reduce it by making the best and most efficient use of the funding provided by the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
in writing. − these provisions are introduced in response to the ongoing financial and economic crisis and are intended to ensure easy implementation of cohesion policy programmes, in particular in the member states that have been most affected by the crisis. cohesion policy was created as an investment instrument needed to achieve growth and jobs and to better meet the investment needs of regions, thus contributing not only to reducing disparities between them but also to economic recovery and development in the eu as a whole.
in writing. − in favour of territorial cohesion and the strengthening of the economic and social integration process of the european union, i support the extension of the duration of the increased co-financing rate of the structural and cohesion funds for member states affected or threatened by serious difficulties in financial stability. along with the extension of the deadline for decommitment of appropriations until the end of the current mff period, it is a measure of great importance to promote the eu's economic recovery, as well as to facilitate the management of eu funding, help accelerate investments, improve the availability of finance to the real economy and anticipate huge decommitments. these measures will help the targeted member states to address problems of economic growth and financial stability, of deteriorating deficit and public debt situations, by encouraging maximum and optimum use of the structural and cohesion funds funding available at the end of the programming period.
in writing. − due to the economic and financial crisis, the commission considers that it is necessary to extend the application of the measures adopted in regulation (eu) no 1311/2011. this regulation concerns the application of an increased co-financing rate to member states which are under (let us say, rather: are victims of) so-called adjustment programmes. this increase, corresponding to 10 percentage points above the current co-financing rate applicable to each priority axis, is authorised for interim payments made under the cohesion fund and the structural funds. as was the case with the above-mentioned regulation, we approved the commission's proposal to increase cofinancing. this is a measure we considered necessary long before it was adopted, only having sinned too late. the assumptions underlying it remain valid and as such its extension is both right and necessary. this is not an act of eu solidarity. this measure does not lead to any increase in the funds available to these countries. it is only a sign of flexibility, allowing for easier mobilisation of the funds already earmarked for these countries. however, in the conditions in which these countries find themselves, with historically low levels of investment, even the co-financing rates now envisaged could be problematic.
in writing. − this proposal was adopted in response to the ongoing financial and economic crisis and aims to ensure a smooth implementation of cohesion policy programmes, focusing on the member states that have been most affected by the crisis. in agreeing with its objective and purpose, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain financial management provisions applicable to certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to financial stability and the rules on the cancellation of commitments applicable to certain member states.
in writing. − in the structural funds for the period 2007 to 2013, a scheme is in place where article 77 of regulation 1083/2006 gives member states, under a financial assistance programme, the possibility to have their requests for reimbursement of expenditure to the european commission paid with an increase of 10 percentage points over the current co-financing rate, which is increased from 85% to 95%. i understand that there was an eligibility gap between 31 may 2014 and the end of the current programming period, where portugal would not benefit from the 10 percentage point increase, despite continuing to be in economic recession and implementing severe austerity measures. in this respect, i voted in favour of this report, as it includes the amendment i tabled to extend the top up until the end of the programming period (december 2015) rather than ending at the end of the financial assistance period (may 2014).
in writing. - i approve the legislative proposal under consideration, which provides for the allocation in 2013 of an additional amount of eur 150 million from the european social fund to three member states, namely france, italy and spain, through the flexibility instrument. whereas the increased allocation of resources is intended to support the member states concerned in their efforts to face the challenges posed by the current crisis and to compensate them for the negative impact on them as a result of the choices made in the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020; it is important to stress that there are specific reasons why this additional allocation was made available to the member states concerned through the european social fund. firstly, these member states are currently facing high levels of unemployment, including youth unemployment, as well as a growing number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in addition, in view of the urgent investment needs of these member states in the social field, the european social fund is considered to be the instrument which, in the present context, ensures a higher absorption rate of funds.
in writing. - the aid granted to spain, france and italy through the european social fund is a reminder of the fact that unemployment has become the main social problem in the union and that it will have to be tackled, otherwise we will have to question the model of society we have been building. however, their survival requires adjustments which are not always easy and are never painless, as is evident in the cases of the three countries receiving this aid. my country too has seen its unemployment rate rise to very high levels and it too is now struggling with difficult decisions that require consensus and accountability from the main political actors. unfortunately, there are those who, having been instrumental in the emergence and aggravation of the problem, resist converging on solutions.
in writing. - in view of the objective of overcoming the problem of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and social exclusion, the use of the flexibility instrument is justified to unlock, under the european social fund, an overall increase of eur 150 million in commitment appropriations for france (eur 100 million), italy (eur 30 million) and spain (eur 20 million). these increases in national esf allocations are intended to support member states currently facing high levels of unemployment with a particular impact on young people and a growing number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the aim is to support employment for all through actions to facilitate access to employment, promote return to employment after a break from work and support the employability of workers (through training).
in writing. − this amendment to regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on the financial allocation of the european social fund (esf) for the period 2007-13 provides for an additional amount of around eur 150 million for the esf for three member states: france, italy and spain. these increases in national esf allocations were agreed at the june european council, not only to cope with the economic crisis, but mainly to compensate these three countries for the negative impact on them as a result of the choices made in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. we have nothing against the increase in esf funding for these countries. on the contrary, we have argued for the need to increase this money in general. that is why we voted in favour of this amendment. but the discrimination that is done here is unacceptable. there is nothing, nothing at all, to justify the fact that the support for these countries should not also be extended to other countries in difficulty, such as portugal. once again it proves that not all states are equal in this eu. in return for the negotiations which took place behind the council's desk, additional funds were finally mobilised for three large countries, while others which needed as much or more were excluded. it should be recalled that portugal will lose, in the period 2014-2020, 10% of the funds it received in the period 2007-2013.
in writing. - the legislative proposal under consideration, amending the general regulation on the funds for the period 2007-2013 currently in force, provides for the allocation in 2013 through the flexibility instrument of an additional amount of eur 150 million from the european social fund (esf) to three member states, namely france, italy and spain (eur 100 million, eur 30 million and eur 20 million respectively in current prices). in addition, in order to avoid committing problems, the draft regulation provides for a special derogation from the normal commitment deadline, allowing budgetary commitments to be made under this additional appropriation until 30 june 2014. these increases in national esf allocations were agreed at the european council of 27 and 28 june 2013 to support the member states concerned in their efforts to face the challenges posed by the current crisis and as a way of compensating them for the negative impact on them as a result of the choices made in the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the context of the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, certain problems arising from the final outcome of the negotiations had to be addressed, as some ms received additional checks and others did not. at the council meeting of 27 and 28 june 2013, it was considered that a budgetary solution should be found to address the problem of member states that were at a budgetary disadvantage, namely france, italy and spain. the european commission has therefore proposed to provide france, spain and italy with €100, €30 and €20 million respectively in addition to the esf allocations for these countries in 2013, using the argument that it is to combat poverty, social exclusion and reduce youth unemployment. i voted in favour of this report, in which no amendments were adopted in the three committees responsible which took a position on the subject, thus respecting the financial balance which is intended to be established between member states. i would also remind you that portugal will receive an additional cheque of eur 1 billion and another eur 300 million to combat youth unemployment.
in writing. - i approve the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with kiribati, which allows spanish, french and portuguese vessels access to kiribati waters. however, i believe that the protocol has the potential, at various levels, to undermine the efforts of small island developing states to manage the exploitation of tuna resources and increase their revenues from them. it does not therefore contribute to the sustainable management of tuna resources in the western and central pacific ocean. the unfsa review conference in may 2010 also called for the promotion of the identification of strategies to help developing states, in particular least developed countries and small island developing states, to realize a greater share of the benefits of the catch of straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks and to increase regional efforts to conserve and sustainably manage those stocks. in this way, the european union will take development cooperation objectives into account in the policies it implements which are likely to affect developing countries.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i hope that the sustainable exploitation of the country's marine resources will have a positive impact not only on the union's fishing fleets but also on the local economy itself, and that the partnership with the european union will enable the republic of kiribati to increase its capacity and employability in this sector and protect the diversity and renewal of the fisheries species in its seas.
in writing. − the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) with the republic of kiribati, to be implemented by september 2015, will allow portuguese, spanish and french vessels access to the waters of the exclusive economic zone of that pacific republic. the new protocol also meets the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, which are to strengthen cooperation and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, in the interests of both parties. it is in this context that i support the call for cooperation by pacific island countries in the management of tuna fishing in their waters to be encouraged and not hindered, particularly as this is the only resource that benefits the economies of these islands.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to establish a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and kiribati, an island state in the central pacific ocean. the western and central pacific ocean region is the most important area for tuna fishing, accounting for about 55% of the total world catches of these species. the eu tuna fleet has a strong interest in fishing in this region, with purse seiners and longliners operating in this area since the late 1990s. this three-year protocol grants access to kiribati waters to 10 eu fishing vessels (four trawlers and six longliners), corresponding to an annual reference tonnage of 15 000 tonnes. the total eu financial contribution is eur 4 428 000, divided between eur 3 975 000 for access to the eez for quiribati and eur 453 000 for support to its fisheries sector policy. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report because i consider this protocol to be fairly balanced and beneficial for both parties, allowing the continuation of the activity of the european tuna fleet, opening up prospects for the national fleet and consolidating the eu's strategic presence in this pacific region.
in writing. the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) sets out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati. this protocol will allow spanish, french and portuguese vessels access to kiribati waters between 16 september 2012 and 15 september 2015, and i voted in favour of the parliament's document approving the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. - i approve this report. the locations chosen for the headquarters have always been the subject of a delicate political compromise. this report, however, focuses on the seat of the european parliament, since it plays a distinct and unique role as the only institution directly elected and accountable to european citizens, and its role has, since its creation, witnessed the most significant changes of all the institutions. in the face of increased powers and responsibilities, notably with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which placed the european parliament on a par with the council in its role as co-legislator, the council has significantly changed its way of functioning and its working methods. i therefore believe that in order to fulfil the tasks assigned to it by the treaties and to meet the expectations of its electorate, parliament must have the right to organise itself in a modern and appropriate way and, to that end, it must initiate a procedure to amend article 341 and protocol no 6.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union because i believe it is important to make a revision of the treaties possible, so that it is possible to propose the necessary amendments to enable the european parliament to decide on the location of its seat, which is currently fixed by the member states by unanimity, with a view to greater rationalisation of economic and environmental costs.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the question of the location of the seat of the european parliament should have been settled long ago and that the members of the house have the right to deliberate and decide where they meet. member states should not be insensitive to this position and should adapt the treaties accordingly. i believe that all european politicians have a duty to try to interpret the majority sentiment of civil society and to lead by example, contributing significantly to reducing the running costs of parliament by having it where its presence and activity are most justified. in brussels.
in writing. − in the new times of demand for more efficient responses and cost-effectiveness of resources, it is also pertinent to analyse the cost-benefit ratio with regard to the geographical dispersion of the headquarters and workplaces of the institutions of the european union, with particular emphasis on the european parliament. according to the european parliament's 2014 budget estimates, expenditure directly related to the dispersal of three workplaces (strasbourg, brussels and luxembourg) is between eur 169 million and eur 204 million per year. in 2011, the time spent on monthly travel to plenary sessions is estimated at 69 562 days for officials and other servants (an expenditure of eur 16 652 490) and 31 316 days for accredited parliamentary assistants (equivalent to eur 5 944 724). taking into account that the definition of the seat of the institutions and their places of work is a matter for the member states alone and is regulated by the treaties, i support the initiative to promote studies and analyses on this geographical dispersion, while not ignoring the financial and economic implications that may result from a change in this matter.
in writing. - this report again addresses the controversial question of the location of the european parliament's seat. the functioning of parliament in brussels and strasbourg and the monthly migration that goes with it have undoubtedly become the subject of increasing critical attention. the general public has come to believe that these regular trips, because of the costs involved, are excessive and unjustified. the rapporteur's report reiterates the view that parliament should be given the prerogative to determine its own working hours and place of work. at present, this is prevented by the treaty, which clearly states that the european parliament is to be seated in strasbourg, where the 12 monthly plenary sessions, including the budget session, are held. the additional plenary sessions shall be held in brussels. the committees of the european parliament meet in brussels. the general secretariat of the european parliament and its departments remain in luxembourg. this is the provision which is now being amended by a revision of the treaty to allow parliament to decide on the location of its seat and its internal organisation. although we do not fully follow the set of arguments which are often put forward on this issue, it seems clear to us that changes in this area are necessary to reduce unnecessary and unjustified expenditure.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the european union, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. the maintenance of two workplaces, with the obligation to hold 12 plenary sessions in strasbourg, undermines the rational and effective organisation of the ep's work and has a negative impact on the image of the ep and its members in the eyes of its electorate. as the data in this report show, in addition to the budgetary and environmental costs of the current situation, the profound changes in the ep's powers, in particular the increase in the number of procedures in which it is co-legislator, alongside the council, and which has resulted in a 150% increase in interinstitutional meetings, make it advisable for the ep to work from a single workplace at the headquarters of the other institutions of the union's government. it is not just a question of the cost of the two seats, much less the convenience of members, but above all a question of the efficiency of the functioning of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament defends its right to decide where and when to hold its meetings. the european parliament, the only parliament which has no power to decide on its own seat, calls for the initiation of a process of revision of the treaties with a view to proposing the necessary amendments to enable it to decide on the location of its seat, which is currently fixed by the member states by unanimity. several studies make it undeniable that the parliament would be more cost-effective if it were located in a single place.
in writing. − according to article 341 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the seat of the institutions of the european union is to be determined by common accord of the governments of the member states. protocol no 6 annexed to the treaties provides that the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg, where the 12 monthly plenary sessions are held, that meetings of parliamentary committees shall be held in brussels and that the general secretariat shall be located in luxembourg. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to review the treaties and ensure that the european parliament can choose its official seat. i have long advocated that the official seat should be in brussels, because of the location of most of the european institutions, the ease of establishing official contacts, scheduling meetings with ngos or other representatives of civil society. i would remind you that the additional costs of the geographical dispersion of parliament have been estimated at between eur 169 and 204 million, or about 10% of the ep's annual budget. i would also point out that the current system also incurs unnecessary additional environmental, organisational and logistical costs, with estimates of between 11 000 and 19 000 tonnes of additional co2 emissions alone.
in writing. - the functioning of the parliament in brussels and strasbourg and the monthly migration that goes with it has undoubtedly become the subject of increasing critical attention. the general public has come to believe that these regular trips, because of the costs involved, are excessive and unjustified. the rapporteur's report reiterates the view that parliament should be given the prerogative to determine its own working hours and place of work. at the moment, this is prevented by the treaty, which clearly states that the european parliament is to be seated in strasbourg, where the 12 monthly plenary sessions, including the budget session, are held. the additional plenary sessions shall be held in brussels. the committees of the european parliament meet in brussels. the general secretariat of the european parliament and its departments remain in luxembourg. this is the provision which is now being amended by a revision of the treaty to allow parliament to decide on the location of its seat and its internal organisation. it seems pertinent to us.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking everyone for their commitment to horizon 2020. i would like to thank the european commission and the commissioners and their services for their continued availability to discuss and further develop the ideas that parliament has been suggesting over the last two years. i would also like to thank all the other rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs, other members, advisers to the political groups and the itre committee secretariat for their commitment and cooperation. finally, a word of deep thanks to the various presidencies, with special reference to the irish presidency which has shown great flexibility and openness in the negotiating process. i think that the final agreement we reached was very positive and that parliament's role was important in this process. the only point on which i was disappointed, as were many colleagues, was the budget for horizon 2020, which, although increased by 35% compared to the current framework programme, which corresponds to eur 79.4 billion, fell short of the eur 100 billion advocated by parliament. i would like to highlight what i consider to be the main contributions of the european parliament. parliament has created a new pillar dedicated to widening participation, in which mechanisms have been introduced to allow a better geographical distribution of the allocation of funds without compromising the principle of excellence of projects and participants. parliament also introduced important measures to promote the employment of qualified young people. the largest part of the horizon 2020 budget is dedicated to the recruitment of researchers, technicians, engineers and entrepreneurs. i would point out, for example, that for every billion euros in horizon 2020, 2 500 marie curie fellowships or 4 000 innovative smes can be funded. as regards the participation of smes, parliament also managed to secure a budget of eur 8.6 billion for smes, of which eur 3 million is dedicated to the instrument called the sme instrument. finally, several scientific and technological areas are strengthened by this agreement. i would like to stress, as a matter of urgency, clean energy with renewable sources, energy efficiency and the introduction of a new horizontal area entirely devoted to maritime issues. i strongly believe that horizon 2020, being the largest research and innovation funding programme in the world and covering the entire innovation cycle, will make a difference in increasing the competitiveness of european industry, in overcoming the crisis we are going through and in reducing unemployment, especially unemployment among young people with qualifications. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - i would also like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have been involved in this process. we have been discussing research policy for several years now and the last two years have certainly been very intense. but i would also like to thank, in a very particular way, the staff of the itre commission secretariat, all the assistants and advisers who were involved, because they have done a lot of work and without them it would not be possible for us to be here today discussing so many legislative packages relating to research with the results we have obtained. as regards the strategic innovation agenda, it focuses mainly on the european institute of innovation and technology and this is the heart of what we have tried to do, i in conjunction with my colleague philippe lamberts, who was responsible for the report on the regulation of the european institute of innovation and technology itself. the eit, as i shall call it, is a key instrument for completing the knowledge triangle and is the only one which actually completes it, involving universities, research centres and the private sector. it is also an absolutely fundamental instrument for strengthening the capacity of innovation in europe and the eit has been organising itself in recent years around what have become known as the innovation and knowledge communities. i think the overall assessment of this house is that this is a project that has gone well. however, it was a project that was underfunded and a project that was still very unknown to the general public and even to the general public working in science and technology. and so with this report, with this proposal together with mr lambert's proposal, we are seeking to strengthen the role of the eit. we need the eit to become a true european-wide institute of innovation and technology and not an unknown or almost unknown entity, as it was until now, but we need this institute to be truly an institute and not just the sum of the innovation and knowledge communities. i would also like to mention another point which has to do with what the proposals for new priorities for action are, new areas for developing the european union's innovation capacity. we know that innovation does not exist in the abstract, it depends on the definition of political priorities. this was probably one of the most intense debates we have had in the development of this process, but we ended up with a redefinition of priorities that puts health and active ageing first and raw materials second, which are scarce as we know, particularly with regard to sustainable exploitation of raw materials, recycling and replacement. there will be two other openings for the creation of new innovation and knowledge communities, but these were the ones that were defined as the first two priorities in the agreement we reached. the third point i would like to make is that we have made efforts to avoid the concentration of resources for both research and innovation in the european area. innovation can never benefit the european union as a whole if it remains concentrated in only two or three countries, and that is why we have made an effort to re-establish decentralization, geographical distribution as one of the fundamental criteria. and so we have added a new instrument, the regional innovation scheme, which allows certain regions that are not included in the innovation and knowledge communities to take advantage of the installed capacity they have for the development of innovation and which can favour regions in the direction of greater job creation, greater inclusion, and this is one of the points that changes the commission's original proposal the most, but on which we have all agreed and which i think is a very interesting point to develop. finally, a note on the budget: the eit was funded with 300 million euros, we were able to increase that funding to 3 billion euros. i think that this is a good investment, that it is a significant increase and that we should know how to make good use of it because investment in science is surely one of the most important in the context in which we live today.
for the gue/ngl group well, an agreement is an agreement and there have been interventions here which show well how this agreement can be supported for reasons so different from each other. but we made a deal. that is the part, i think, that is most important to stress. however, i would like to take this opportunity to say what i see as the good parts of this agreement, and they are, of course, that we have managed to rescue the social sciences and the humanities, which had been relegated to the background in the initial perspective presented by the european commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it also involves increasing support for smes, whereas initially this proposal was so geared towards large industry. i think we cannot ignore the fact that it is the largest percentage of the european industrial fabric and that it provides access to the largest number of jobs in the european context, especially at a time of crisis such as this. it also makes it easier to cooperate in research with regions such as africa, latin america and others. it also goes through the possibility of us accessing open access in terms of publications, scientific research results, of going that way, because it's public money we're talking about. it is also the fact that we can increase investment in fundamental research, in basic research, by increasing the budget for the european research council. that said, there are some things i don't like very much: i don't like public-private partnerships very much, i don't like the money that's being spent on research and security very much, but from all of the things that have been mentioned i would like to say, precisely because it's an agreement, that it's a good thing that stem cell research got in. it would not be a step backwards from what we have been doing and so it is. in deals, there are parts that we like more, parts that we like less. i would just like to see more investment in the areas which are most decisive for job creation and for getting out of the crisis, because we talk about this, but in the end the targets fall short of what we say in the initial declarations.
mr president, commissioner, horizon 2020 is the most important instrument for the union's science and innovation policy. and it aims at many things, among them responding to the scientific community, to the complaints of the scientific community, promoting the simplification of administrative rules, contributing to scientific excellence and collaboration, bringing science closer to the commercialization of results and also facilitating technological innovation and the competitiveness of companies. it is the main budgetary instrument of the union for achieving a knowledge-based economy and therefore i cannot help but express disappointment at the financial allocation of the programme which has just fallen far, far short of what was expected. i regret the concentration on very large-scale initiatives which make it difficult for new entrants and smaller entities to gain access. this concentration does not guarantee excellence, nor the desired convergence between member states in terms of innovation. it has only the nearest practical application of knowledge in its favour. the european innovation ecosystem needs to be more effective and serve a dynamic and sustainable economy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioners, tomorrow we will be voting on horizon 2020. it is an important programme for europe but it is crucial for countries like portugal, whose investment in science and innovation is highly dependent on european funding, especially in times of crisis like the present one. horizon 2020 will bring many opportunities to countries in portugal's situation, because it is a programme with simple rules and a very suitable and favourable funding model; because it covers the areas of greatest expression for europe and for countries like portugal (health and energy, transport, sea, environment, social sciences and humanities); because it introduces modes of participation designed for institutions with little experience in international projects, although they are excellent, such as twinning, return grants, era chairs, innovation vouchers; because it has a second programme for smes worth €8.6 billion. the conditions are therefore in place for countries such as portugal to increase their participation in horizon 2020, leading to: first, an increase in the employment of qualified young people, countering the brain drain phenomenon we have seen in recent years; second, an increase in internationalisation and consequently an increase in the competitiveness of smes; third, the improvement of the living conditions of all europeans and all those living in europe who will benefit from the results of scientific research in such important areas as health or the environment. thank you very much.
the rapporteur. - the debate was quite interesting and intense, and there were two issues which were probably the most controversial. i should like to take this opportunity to make a few comments on these two issues. i am referring, of course, to the question of israel's participation and the question of embryonic stem cells. on the question of israel, if we respect international law and the right to life, we must ensure that the european commission's communication of july this year on the non-financing of israeli entities involved in the occupation of the palestinian territories is complied with. it is a matter of international law and respect for human life. the agreement provides for research on embryonic stem cells to be carried out in accordance with ethical principles and in compliance with national, european and international legislation. here too, and again, it is a matter of complying with international law. either one is a perfectly reasonable point. i'm glad you're on the same page. this agreement cannot be held hostage to dogmatism, fundamentalism, nor can it be left on the sidelines and in defiance of international law and respect for human life. that said, i would like to end by saying only that the european union remains a very unequal space, with very different capacities of the different member states, in the different institutions, to be able to access research resources. the european union is even more unequal as a result of the crisis and in many countries the only, if not almost exclusive, recourse to european funds is to be able to finance research. and that is why i hope that horizon 2020 will prove to be an instrument for a more cohesive european union, because that is the only way we can be better, when we are more equal. thank you very much.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the question of financing micro, small and mediumsized enterprises is now a matter of life and death in this sector which is so important for the economies of countries. the policies of competitiveness in the framework of the single market, the religious panacea of the european union, have already, over time, left behind thousands of small businesses, especially in countries with weaker economies and difficult competitiveness. but today, the situation is worse. in countries like my own, portugal, dozens of small and mediumsized enterprises are closed down every day. they're families and workers who see their lives destroyed overnight. the lack of financing by the banks is certainly one of the causes of this misfortune. we therefore consider it important to create credit lines, although we know that the intermediaries will make a profit at the expense of this problem. but today, when we visit traders, small manufacturers, food and agricultural producers, associations of small businessmen, the reasons they find for their risk of bankruptcy are different: the decline in purchasing power, in domestic consumption, in the internal market of their countries. it is true that the cuts in pensions and wages, the redundancies, so cheerfully promoted by the european union, particularly in the implementation of its pacts of aggression with national governments through the troika, are leading to the daily ruin of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises throughout the european union. and why would young people want to risk investing and going into debt when the economic picture in their country is devastating and is predicted to get even worse?
smes have been experiencing great difficulties in accessing credit, especially in the countries most affected by the economic crisis, which is affecting their competitiveness, hindering their dynamism and growth. and they're so important that five-sixths of new job growth in the united states is associated with smes. we agree with the main lines of action introduced by this regulation, in particular the financial instruments which facilitate access to debt and risk capital mechanisms, as well as support for internationalisation, administrative and regulatory simplification and support for sectors such as small tourism operators, which is so important and promising today. unfortunately, the cosme programme is only a seed, it has a very insufficient amount, so it requires an intelligent application to be able to be multiplier. thank you, sir.
madam president, commissioner, the european business community is made up mainly of smes, 90% of which are micro-enterprises. these figures show the importance of enterprises in the european economy. the cosme programme is crucial for smes, particularly in their access to finance and to markets. cosme, which is aimed at all smes and has a budget of eur 2.5 billion, should, because of its small budget, focus on actions with a greater impact and a large multiplier factor. i would stress the importance of measures to improve the conditions for sustainable competitiveness, measures to promote entrepreneurship, measures to improve access to finance for smes, which is so difficult in certain countries of the european union, and finally measures to improve access to markets for smes. thank you very much.
on behalf of the s&d group. the reports by mr koppa and mr gahler are all the more important because the challenges we face in the fields of security and defence are extremely serious. almost three years of the arab spring and the european neighbourhood is no longer safe. the challenges are facing our mediterranean shores because the european union has not been able to respond effectively and in a timely manner to the calls coming from the peoples and governments of north africa and the middle east. just look at the tragedy in syria and the dangerous degradation in libya. their safety is our safety, as lampedusa tragically illustrates. europe must invest seriously in a strategy to promote security and democratic governance along the mediterranean. without the first, the second cannot be achieved, and without coordination between the member states and the high representative for foreign affairs, there is no real common security and defence policy. it is precisely the complex realities we face in our neighbourhood and the threats to global security we face in this interdependent world that are not in keeping with the blind cuts that the member states of the european union have been making, under the pretext of the financial crisis, in national security and defence budgets. these are cuts that are making countries like my own, portugal, lose strategic capabilities, capabilities that are essential to defend our citizens, our territory, our critical infrastructure, our interests; also to ensure the fulfillment of our obligations within the framework of the un and nato and other international partnerships. the member states of the union must understand that the risk of losing these capacities is infinitely greater than the apparent budgetary gap. we need them to follow what has been said: the pooling and sharing policies that are being proposed by the european defence agency. the financing of common security and defence policy missions must be reviewed so that those states contributing forces are not also financially burdened. we must develop the industrial and technological base of european defence so that we are not currently selling off strategic enterprises to the potatoes, as is the case in my country, for example, with the viana do castelo shipyards which have even dual production. we must stop, absolutely prohibit, the counterpart of defence contracts which are nothing but corrupt schemes, as happened in the sale of german submarines to my country and to greece. that is what we want to see discussed and action taken at the european council in december. this is how we can, in fact, be the providers of global security, as is our obligation and as humanity demands of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - in the current context, this programme can be important, important indeed, because it states that it aims to promote quality employment, which in our view is employment with social and labour rights. i am skeptical because of the social backwardness in many countries and because the european union is an active and responsible party. we would like to stress three points. we hope that voluntary mobility is indeed that and not forced emigration, as is the case in many countries of the european union today. no country can develop without its young people, without the qualified staff it has trained. the itre committee, for which i am rapporteur, has recommended that 30% of the funding be allocated to micro-credit. at this point, we thought it was essential to have public investment in the real economy, in productive development. finally, the concept of social entrepreneurship is complicated. today, public services are being shut down in several countries under the blackmail of cutting public spending. we will not accept that business is made from the sale of these services which should be public and free and which are being deliberately destroyed.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleague the rapporteur for her excellent work and to congratulate commissioner andor on his speech. the crisis we are experiencing has had social and employment consequences and it is becoming increasingly evident that situations vary widely between member states. because we are part of a union, problems in one member state can have an impact on others, which means that we need coordinated action at both union and national level, both in the field of employment and the fight against poverty, but also in the field of social protection and working conditions, because only in this way can the social objectives of the 2020 strategy be achieved. that is why it is important to structure the creation of new programmes, such as the programme for employment and social innovation which we are now discussing and which integrates important programmes which can provide answers to these questions: the progress programme, the eures network and the european microfinance facility for employment. i would like to stress, because it is never too late to recall, that the situation in the countries affected by unemployment and, above all, youth unemployment is very serious. we want to trust that this programme for employment and social innovation is part of the solution and that it facilitates job creation that promotes voluntary labour mobility and that helps the most vulnerable in our society.
i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs steinruck, on her excellent work and thanking her for supporting the proposals of the femm committee. the gender dimension is an essential component of social and employment policies. the union must adapt legislation to take account of work patterns and new risks to health and safety, but without forgetting the reconciliation of work and family life for both men and women. improving working conditions also requires the creation of family support services and good parental leave, maternity and paternity leave systems. women's entrepreneurship can be increased by access to micro-credit and thus contribute to the 75% female employment target as set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on 2 may 1998, the list of the 11 founding countries of the euro area was approved. it was claimed that the euro would bring high growth rates, but between 2000 and 2009, if you look at the graphs, macroeconomic imbalances worsened: very different trade balances, creation of debtor countries and creditor countries. behind the said objective of price stability is the objective of reducing unit labour costs. without monetary exchange sovereignty, the only factors of economic adjustment to devaluation have been wage devaluation and rising unemployment, which also put pressure on wages and social rights. the peripheral consumer countries with cheap labour have been created. between 2001 and 2010, net profits grew seven times faster than real wages. the stability pact mechanism associated with the euro, its predecessors such as the european semester, have created absolute constraints on any possibility of endogenous development of a country. i have only two questions: who is interested in this monetary union and is economic and monetary union compatible with the social dimension?
mr president, commissioner, the commission's proposal is not ambitious and, as has already been said, it has nevertheless had to overcome great difficulties and has had few allies, but it certainly has many allies here in the european parliament. the social indicators panel on employment is a good idea but there should be mechanisms for sanctions similar to those in the excessive macroeconomic imbalances procedure. the opinion polls show that 60% of european citizens think that austerity is not the solution to the crisis and that is not surprising, because we are seeing in countries subject to austerity programmes that citizens are suffering intensely and that the results are very negative and therefore the european union needs to change course, by strengthening the social dimension, by giving more protection to its citizens, and this will also be reflected in the economy itself.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i thank you very much for your comments about the commission communication on the social dimension, and especially what has been said on the scoreboard of employment and social indicators. it might be true, as some of you have said in this discussion, that this is a small step in the construction of economic and monetary union (emu) in europe. however, i also believe that it will potentially be a giant leap in developing the understanding of how economic and monetary union works and how big a task we are still facing on the road towards a deep and genuine emu. the blueprint document one year ago indeed developed a long-term perspective towards a deep, genuinely sustainable and legitimate emu. it provided a long list of measures that are needed in order to create this better-functioning model. in my view, the scoreboard which we introduced with the 2 october commission communication, helps to detect the very serious imbalances that unfortunately have grown during these crisis years. the eurozone was never a homogenous area, but this very long financial and economic crisis – and especially its second phase – made this asymmetric system even more imbalanced. we can also assume that these imbalances will make recovery more difficult. this is not an easy question. this is a very, very complex problem which we are facing. however, at least from the social perspective, i believe that this communication helps to improve understanding and, in the process, helps to identify the necessary measures. we believe it was right to refrain from proposing any procedures at this stage, but we had to introduce a new tool which will improve the functioning of the existing procedures, especially as regards the european semester. the scoreboard is not the only proposal in this communication, as members know well and as some have pointed out. improving the social dialogue and the involvement of the social partners in the european semester is a similarly important proposal. developing labour mobility is also very important, as is strengthening employment and social governance in order to reach better outcomes in this area to improve the functioning of policies. these are very important parts of this communication on strengthening the social dimension of emu. does it exclude further proposals, further measures or further developments? definitely not. what i believe is that, since 2 october 2013, we have witnessed a process where a number of think tanks in the european union responded very positively to this communication. there is a widely-shared understanding that this is a necessary step – a step forward. it does not mean that suddenly the eu would like to grab new competences from the member states or from the social partners, but we definitely have to improve the cooperation and the coordination with the member states and the social partners. so this might just be the beginning of some new debates, and these debates might even intensify in the next six months, but we are very much looking forward. i believe the commission has the technical expertise to come forward with new analyses and new proposals, if necessary, in the coming period. i count on parliament’s continued interest and support in this forthcoming period.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, good morning. this is an early start on life! first and foremost, let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, ms haug, and the shadow rapporteurs, for their constructive work on the commission’s proposal for the establishment of the life programme for the environment and climate action. the final result is good news for the environment and good news for the fight against climate change. almost eur 3.5 billion will be available between 2014 and 2020 to support projects and initiatives targeting environmental and climate-related challenges. this represents a 43% increase compared with the 2007-2013 period and is an important step towards enhancing the impact of this particular financial instrument, even if the means are small in relation to the challenges we face. the european parliament’s work over many years has contributed to making a real success of the life programme. life has helped people take action to protect nature where they live and where they work; it has helped policymakers improve the quality of their work and it has helped businesses to innovate and create jobs. when we talk here today about the regulation, the trialogues and the budget for the programme, it all may seem rather theoretical and bureaucratic but many of you have seen the real results, and the benefits on the ground, of life projects in your regions – doing very necessary work. the outcome of the negotiations on the new programme will take these benefits a step further. traditional projects, due to their success and the fact that they achieve important results with relatively little money, will remain at the core of the proposal. the commission welcomes in particular the strengthening of integrated projects. this will help reinforce a more strategic approach to implementing environment and climate-related policies and will mobilise other eu funds for environmental and climate objectives. the provisions on capacity building and on dissemination and exchanges of best practice will help people develop quality projects and will spread the benefits of action on the environment across the whole union. this has helped increase confidence among member states that excellent projects can be developed and that the practice of fixing national allocations can be phased out. finally, the commission welcomes the possibility of using financial instruments to support climate and environmental projects. by combining public and private sources of funding, these instruments will attract more investment to combat climate change and protect natural capital. they will add value to traditional projects by leveraging additional funds and increasing the overall impact of the programme. while the commission fully supports the outcome as far as the substance is concerned, some of the changes introduced to our proposal require us to make two statements: first, on the use of the no-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts in connection with the maximum funding that a single integrated project may receive; and, second, on the status of funding of biodiversity in overseas countries and territories. the commission will pass the full text of these statements to the plenary service for recording in the minutes. they will be published in the official journal together with the regulation.
maximum amount that a single ip may receive the commission attaches high importance to ensuring a proportionate distribution of funds among integrated projects in order to fund as many integrated projects as possible and guarantee a balanced distribution of integrated projects among all member states. in this context, the commission will propose when discussing the draft work programme with the members of the life committee the maximum amount that a single integrated project may receive. this proposal will be submitted as part of the methodology for project selection to be adopted as part of the multiannual work programme. status of funding biodiversity in octs the commission attaches high importance to the protection of environment and biodiversity in overseas countries and territories, as is illustrated by the overseas association decision proposal which includes these sectors in the areas of cooperation between the european union and octs and outlines the different actions which could be eligible for funding by the european union in this regard. the best preparatory action has been a successful initiative that has been embraced by octs and has delivered tangible results for biodiversity and ecosystem services. as best is drawing to a close, the commission is favourably considering following up on it under one of the new instruments, namely global public goods and challenges programme under the development cooperation instrument. this specific possibility for funding biodiversity in octs will be complemented by the opportunities offered under article 6 of the life programme for the period 2014-2020.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs haug, on her excellent work. the life programme has been supporting projects of the highest relevance. we welcome an improvement in the budgetary allocation but consider it to be below requirements. the agreement reached ensures funding for projects in the priority area nature-biodiversity, which can stop irreversible losses to the environment but also to society and economies, as the cost of biodiversity loss could reach 7% of gdp by 2050. as there are disparities between member states in the use of available funds, we welcome the capacity building in the regions with the lowest use of funds, as well as the increase in co-financing rates in the economically less developed regions. the budgetary difficulties of some member states cannot be translated into a reduction in investment in the environment and climate areas because this would have catastrophic results. the financing of integrated projects makes it possible to integrate environmental and climate issues into all european union policies and the implementation of environmental legislation, job creation and growth, which we also consider to be positive.
the life programme is the only european union programme devoted exclusively to the environment. over the years, both the concrete results achieved and the capacity it has shown to stimulate and involve various organisations and local actors have proved the importance of this instrument, which would justify an increase in its appropriations. we are in favour of at least 1% of the european union budget being allocated to this programme. unfortunately, we are a long way from that goal. the relative success of life does not, however, remove the need to address some of the problems that have been evident in recent years. this new regulation does so only in part. the levels of life implementation by country are very different, the co-financing requirements and the lack of support for the preparation of proposals have led to many projects being stranded. in many countries, the annual number of projects selected has often fallen short of their national indicative allocation, a difficulty which has become more acute in recent years. the new concept of integrated projects poses challenges and requirements which cannot be ignored. finally, we have always maintained that new objectives must be matched by new and strengthened means. it is important that new climate objectives are not pursued at the expense of the weakening of nature conservation and biodiversity, this was and should continue to be, in our view, the core of the life programme.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the proposal for a regulation on horizon 2020 is a solid basis, which takes account of the european union's needs in the scientific and research fields, while ensuring a certain degree of synergy with cohesion policy. there is, however, room for amendment, particularly in activities aimed at strengthening the development and participation of regions, cities and local authorities, which is not sufficiently covered in the proposal, although the commission has urged member states to include these activities in their operational research programmes in the next programming period. i believe that horizon 2020 should also take greater account of the geographical diversity of the european union and support research initiatives in all member states, which would reinforce the regional dimension of science and research policy. in this context, the territorial and transnational dimension should be strengthened.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is the name of the european framework programme for research and innovation which will run for the period 2014-2020 and which is a core section of the europe 2020 strategy. the programme aims to strengthen the link between research and innovation by converting scientific breakthroughs into innovative products, thus responding to the challenges posed by globalisation (e.g. climate change, energy security and ageing population). horizon 2020 will meet the needs of businesses, universities and institutes in terms of fast and simplified access to finance. i believe that this programme is a practical solution to the crisis in europe.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for horizon 2020 brings together for the first time under a single common strategic framework for research and innovation funding different elements which have so far lacked a common perspective: the successors to the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, together with the european innovation institute. with the aim of revitalising the european economy, the europe 2020 strategy focuses on research and innovation to enable the eu to become a knowledge-based economy, which will allow for more balanced, diversified and sustainable growth.
in writing. − the proposed regulation for the framework programme for research and innovation 2014-2020, called horizon 2020, sets the framework for support for research and innovation activities in this period. it advocates better exploitation of the economic and industrial potential of innovation, research and technological development policies. we are faced with a programme which, broadly speaking, clearly subjugates science and r & d to the market. the intention to direct funding towards research and innovation that can be brought to the market is clear. public-private partnerships are the tool of choice for putting public money to private ends. the emphasis is on channelling resources predominantly to so-called research excellence, and this approach will continue to exclude many research institutions and structures which, by not meeting the requirements for excellence, will be excluded from funding. the innovations introduced in the regulation, such as the new concept of the path to excellence, do not substantially alter this framework, which is overall detrimental to the interests of countries such as portugal and its institutions. portugal is now a net contributor to the framework programme, that is, it puts more money into it than it takes out. we do not believe that this regulation adopts the necessary solutions to help reverse this situation.
in writing. − this document is part of the legislative package for the horizon 2020 programme, which will run from 2014 to 2020 and which, for the first time, brings together all funding for research and innovation. horizon 2020 has three dimensions: scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges, and synergies with cohesion policy should be created across the various programmes and their funding. i voted in favour of this document, which i consider essential for the future competitiveness of the union in the next multiannual period.
in writing. − the regulation that this report creates, called horizon 2020, the framework programme for research and innovation 2014-2020, sets the framework for support for research activities and for exploiting the economic and industrial potential of innovation, research and technological development policies. this central objective is clearly negative because it subordinates science to the interests of the market. the commission is also proposing to increase funding for research and innovation of excellence, a new concept which will exclude many research institutions and structures which, by not meeting the requirements of such excellence, will be excluded from the pool of applicants for funding. public-private partnerships are the tool of choice in this regulation for public money to serve private ends, even more so in an area whose suitability is important to ensure research for research's sake and not to serve private interests.
in writing. − i welcome this report, bearing in mind that horizon 2020 is intended to bring about a major shift towards greater innovation in europe and, in my view, a budgetary increase of only 6.19% is unlikely to bring sustainable results. i therefore emphasize once again parliament's request for 100 billion for this programme. i am concerned that the setting of reimbursement rates would be too high, which could considerably limit the number of projects that can be funded under horizon 2020, thereby reducing the overall impact of the programme and possibly undermining the implementation of the innovation union flagship initiative and the europe 2020 strategy. this issue could become even more important as the outcome of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework could leave horizon 2020 with an even smaller financial framework than the one currently proposed. from an economic point of view, the financing of activities close to the market must follow a more clearly defined concept. finally, i would stress that union funding for research and innovation must seek to provide a substantial leverage effect in terms of private investment.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is the name of the european framework programme for research and innovation which will run for the period 2014-2020 and which is a core section of the europe 2020 strategy. this regulation introduces measures which simplify the participation of beneficiaries considerably, which will, on the one hand, streamline administrative procedures and, on the other hand, allow for a wider participation of smaller entities and groups with lighter administrative structures.
in writing. − the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules for participation and dissemination in horizon 2020 is part of the package of proposals establishing the eu's research and innovation programme for 2014-2020. it lays down rules according to the different types of funding that may be granted to certain entities for research and related support activities and according to the possibilities for dissemination and exploitation of the results of such research. the proposals to simplify the rules and to increase the participation of smes and the flexible methods of financing are welcome.
in writing. - the main problem with the programme is that the objectives and criteria for funding are oriented towards economic, market and industrial interests, to the detriment of scientific research and development that responds to social needs and advances knowledge and understanding of the world around us and its phenomena. the emphasis on research by placing barriers to excellence in access to project funding does not contribute to the objective of balanced scientific development in all member states. the involvement of economic and industrial interests in research and the preferential channelling of funds towards public-private and other private partnerships are priorities which do not deserve our support. the report advocates reducing the complexity of existing financing rules, which would not be a bad thing in the first place. however, this also means that, as large private companies have access to funds in the same way as public and non-profit entities (secondary and higher education establishments, research organisations and even smes), and their investment in research is much more substantial, their absorption capacity of eu public funding is much higher than that of public entities, many of which will not even see any funding to develop their research. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union's research and innovation framework programme for the next seven years. horizon 2020 has a budget of eur 70,2 billion (2011 prices) and facilitates the participation of young researchers and small and medium-sized enterprises. the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy. in the chapter on participation rules, i would highlight as positive the following aspects: a wider acceptance of the usual accounting practices of beneficiaries, a single set of rules for the financing of all actions undertaken by participants under h2020, reduced requirements for time recording systems and the inclusion of vat in the definition of eligible costs.
in writing. − this document is part of the legislative package for the horizon 2020 programme, which will run from 2014 to 2020 and which, for the first time, brings together all funding for research and innovation. this proposal provides for a wider acceptance of the usual accounting practices of beneficiaries, a single set of rules for the financing of all actions undertaken by participants under horizon 2020, as well as reduced requirements for time-registration systems and the inclusion of vat in the definition of eligible costs. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the regulation lays down specific rules for participation and dissemination in indirect actions carried out under the regulation establishing the horizon 2020 programme. the main problem with the programme is its objectives and funding criteria, which are oriented towards economic, market and industry interests, to the detriment of scientific research and development for the advancement of science by science, in support of public policies for the development of society, rather than its concentration on entities that convey private objectives. we believe that promoting research by placing barriers to excellence in access to project funding not only does not contribute to the public service objective necessary for the creative and innovative fruition of science, but also nullifies the positive results that science and research bring to our society. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by stating that the eit is not a programme, nor a network, but an institute. it certainly operates within a programme and creates technology and innovation networks with many different partners, but it is an institute with an important role to play, which is not the role of a mere administrator, coordinator or facilitator of its kics. as an institute, it should be approached in a very specific way, different from other sections of horizon 2020. as not only a direct innovation instrument but also an educational one, the eit introduces a genuine education dimension into the european union's research and innovation policy. in this respect, i believe that the eit can strengthen its role in this area. to achieve this goal, several things are necessary. an ambitious agenda for the above activities will certainly help to solve the problem. effective communication is also needed. i believe, however, that a major breakthrough with regard to the future premises of the institute will be a key element in this strategic plan.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology is a key initiative to deliver europe 2020 strategy promoting the interaction between research, education and innovation. its development, with an adequate budget, will contribute to a modernised higher education system and to a more entrepreneurial environment, resulting in innovative products and services in the market. i should like to underline the importance of the creation of regional clusters connected to the knowledge and innovation communities for the success of this project.
in writing. − the capacity for innovation is part of the dna of western civilization, which has always sought not only to overcome the barriers of theoretical and practical knowledge but to give it useful application to the lives of its populations. this path has benefited greatly from the central role of universities as centres of knowledge production and transmission. i hope that the european institute of innovation and technology can draw on the personalist and universalist tradition of european universities and aim for research activity that increasingly knows no borders, prioritises work and innovation, and aims at excellence in processes and outcomes. the eit can play a decisive role in the future of european innovation and technology. i hope so.
in writing. − this strategic innovation agenda (sip) sets out the priorities and functioning of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for the period 2014-2020. the eip takes into account the experience gained at the eit to date and aims to reflect the reality of the european innovation situation. the rapporteur expresses concerns and makes recommendations which we can call sensible. all current or potential stakeholders in the eit's activities, including businesses, higher education institutions and research organisations, as well as national and regional authorities, are referred to for consultation. but we do not separate this report from the broader context of horizon 2020, on which we have expressed a number of concerns, in particular with regard to the commercialisation of knowledge and research, as well as the establishment of public-private partnerships and the channelling of european research funds to projects considered to be of excellence, with all the barriers to funding that this concept represents for research institutions below this level. moreover, our abstention is consistent with the position we took when the eit was set up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union's research and innovation framework programme for the next seven years. horizon 2020 has a budget of eur 70,2 billion (2011 prices) and facilitates the participation of young researchers and small and medium-sized enterprises. the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy. the strategic innovation programme of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is a key instrument and addresses the knowledge triangle, involving universities, research centres and the private sector. it is also a key instrument for strengthening the capacity for innovation in europe. innovation can only benefit the eu as a whole if it is decentralised, which is what this document attempts to do, placing geographical distribution as one of the key criteria. a new instrument, the regional innovation scheme, has also been created, which allows certain regions not included in the innovation and knowledge communities to take advantage of their existing capacity to develop innovation and which can help regions to create more jobs.
in writing. − this document is part of the legislative package for the horizon 2020 programme, which will run from 2014 to 2020 and which, for the first time, brings together all funding for research and innovation. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is a major innovation partner in europe, but also one of the main centres for research and scientific and technological exchange, for the dissemination of good practice and for a culture of knowledge sharing. the eit may enhance its role by hosting and organising major conferences, seminars, technology exhibitions and specific training actions, degree course modules or packages for school education, summer courses, the eit fellowship programme, in addition to the existing eit-labelled master and phd programmes, which should be further developed. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this strategic innovation agenda (sip) sets out the priorities and the operation of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) for 2014-2020. in this sense, the diploma is a key instrument for european policy-makers to guide the strategic direction of the eit, giving the institute greater autonomy in defining the ways and means of achieving the set objectives. the eip has drawn conclusions from the experience gained at the eit to date and aims to reflect the reality of the european innovation landscape, embedded in a consultation process open to all current and potential stakeholders in the eit's activities, including businesses, higher education institutions and research organisations, as well as national and regional authorities. this report is part of the broader debate on horizon 2020 on which we have expressed a number of concerns, in particular with regard to the commercialisation of knowledge and research, as well as the establishment of public-private partnerships and the channelling of european research funds to projects considered to be of excellence, with all the barriers to funding that this concept represents for several research institutions in our country.
in writing. − i welcome this report, given that to recover from the multiple crises it is facing, europe must find ways to develop its capacity for innovation, to provide sustainable and efficient solutions to societal challenges, such as those identified in the horizon 2020 initiative, but also to employment and value creation. the institute represents the european union's first attempt to integrate the three sides of the knowledge triangle (higher education, research and innovation). through the activities of the knowledge and innovation communities (kics), the institute promotes closer interaction between universities, research centres and businesses, with the aim of bridging the gap between research, education and entrepreneurial activities, with a view to improving the eu's innovation capacity. to date, the institute appears to be a successful and promising instrument for conducting innovation-oriented activities in a comprehensive and simple way, involving partners from the private and public sectors and universities in a dynamic innovation process. therefore, i support the gradual increase of the budget from 2014 to 2020 as proposed by the commission and the launch of new kics.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology is a key initiative to deliver the europe 2020 strategy promoting the interaction between research, education and innovation. its development, with an adequate budget, will contribute to a modernised higher education system and to a more entrepreneurial environment, resulting in innovative products and services in the market. i should like to underline the importance of the creation of regional clusters connected to the knowledge and innovation communities for the success of this project.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology, which was born of the lisbon strategy and unfortunately did not achieve the desired results, is nevertheless an important bet for the future of the union. its activity deserves not only to continue but to become increasingly established in the global research and technology landscape, involving the three components of the strategic triangle that must cooperate in order to enhance its activity: teaching, research and innovation. i wish the eit a great future, in line with european ambitions in this sector.
in writing. − the eu2020 strategy, with the weight of objectives and measures that have led to flexible labour relations, increasing and facilitating redundancies, among other policy failures on which its agenda has focused energies, gives a prominent role to the european institute of innovation and technology as a positive contribution to its flagship theme: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the regulation, to which this report proposes some amendments, creates the european institute of innovation and technology, which is naturally part of the achievement of the objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme by integrating the knowledge triangle of higher education, research and innovation. we have many criticisms of the programme in question, given the links it establishes between the financing of research development structures and economic and industrial interests, with the clear preferential channelling of funds to the private sector to the detriment of public research. our position on the creation of the european institute of technology, when the regulation was adopted in 2008, was very critical, following the position taken by several research organisations. with these intentions and on the basis of these principles, we cannot adopt such a regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union's research and innovation framework programme for the next seven years. horizon 2020 has a budget of eur 70,2 billion (2011 prices) and facilitates the participation of young researchers and small and medium-sized enterprises. the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy. horizon 2020, being the largest research and innovation funding programme in the world and covering the entire innovation cycle, will make a difference in increasing the competitiveness of european industry, contributing to overcoming the crisis we are going through and to reducing unemployment, in particular the unemployment of young skilled workers.
in writing. − this document is part of the legislative package for the horizon 2020 programme, which will run from 2014 to 2020 and which, for the first time, brings together all funding for research and innovation. the european institute of technology (eit) was set up in 2008 with the aim of strengthening europe's innovation capacity and became operational in 2010 with an eu budget contribution of €309 million between 2008 and 2013. the institute represents the eu's first attempt to integrate the three sides of the knowledge triangle (higher education, research and innovation). as i consider the eit to be a successful and promising instrument for innovation-oriented activities involving partners from the private and public sectors and universities in a dynamic innovation process, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy, with the weight of objectives and measures that have led to flexible labour relations, increasing and facilitating redundancies, among other policy failures on which its agenda has focused energies, gives a prominent role to the european institute of innovation and technology as a positive contribution to its flagship theme: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the regulation on which this report proposes some amendments creates the european institute of innovation and technology, which is naturally part of the achievement of the objectives of the horizon 2020 programme by integrating the knowledge triangle of higher education, research and innovation. we have many criticisms of the programme in question, given the links it establishes between the financing of research development structures and economic and industrial interests, with the clear preferential channelling of funds to the private sector to the detriment of public research. our position on the creation of the european institute of technology, when the regulation was adopted in 2008, was very critical, following the position taken by several research organisations. with these intentions and on the basis of these principles, we could not approve this regulation.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the overall competitiveness of european smes is hampered by institutional, market and policy gaps, such as lack of access to finance, markets and regulatory burden. as a result, european smes have weaker productivity and slower growth than their counterparts in other parts of the world, and have more difficulty successfully adapting to change than larger companies in europe. these difficulties were further aggravated by the economic crisis of 2008, which disproportionately affected smes. i warmly welcome the proposal for the cosme programme, which is the only european union spending programme specifically aimed at stimulating smes. however, given its limited budget, cosme should focus on actions that have the greatest impact and leverage. so i suggest that you focus on three areas: reducing the administrative burden, access to finance and access to markets.
in writing. - the european business fabric is 99% smes, 90% of which are micro-enterprises. these figures show the importance of these companies to the european economy. the cosme programme is crucial for these companies, particularly in their access to finance and to markets. cosme, which is aimed at all smes and has a budget of €2.5 billion, should focus on actions that have the greatest impact and leverage. i would stress the importance of the actions aimed at improving the framework conditions for sustainable competitiveness, the actions aimed at promoting entrepreneurship, the actions aimed at improving access to finance for smes and, finally, the actions aimed at improving access to markets.
in writing. − supporting smes and stimulating competitiveness and entrepreneurship is essential for an effective exit strategy and economic recovery of eu countries. smes are to a large extent the backbone of our economy and without them the eu cannot hope to have a realistic and effective policy for growth, jobs and innovation.
in writing. − the existence of sufficient financing for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (msmes) is more than ever a matter of survival for this sector, which represents a large part of the economy of our country as well as of other european countries. many smes are closing down every day. competition policies within the single market, such as those proclaimed by the eu2020 strategy and part of the objectives of the cosme programme, are the same ones that lead companies to close their doors every day. the rhetoric of strengthening competitiveness, sustainability, youth entrepreneurship, market access is an illusion. very few micro, small and mediumsized enterprises will find in the guidelines of this report the lifeline they need. the cuts in pensions and wages, the redundancies, promoted by the eu, are dictating the daily ruin of thousands of smes across the eu. this is a report full of good intentions, on the one hand with scarce resources and faulty distribution, and on the other hand with proposals, such as the development of entrepreneurship, which are dangerous for our youth and which do not take into account the role of the state, given the crisis that we are experiencing today in portugal and in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european union's research and innovation framework programme for the next seven years. horizon 2020 has a budget of eur 70,2 billion (2011 prices) and facilitates the participation of young researchers and small and medium-sized enterprises. the programme covers all scientific areas such as health, information and communication technologies and energy. the overall competitiveness of european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is hampered by institutional, market and policy gaps, such as lack of access to finance, markets and regulatory burden. under the future mff (2014-2020), the eeas will be replaced by the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme). following its decision to bring research and innovation closer together, the european commission (ec) has proposed to bring innovation-related activities of the current esi funds under horizon 2020, the new framework programme for research and innovation. cosme will therefore focus on competitiveness, growth and entrepreneurship. cosme will be the only eu spending programme specifically aimed at stimulating smes.
in writing. − the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) is a support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises which, together with horizon 2020, replaces the current framework programme for innovation and competitiveness. unlike horizon 2020, which is based on business creation, cosme is growth-focused, providing €2.3 billion (in current prices) for businesses and entrepreneurs from 2014 to 2020. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the question of whether there is sufficient funding for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is more than ever a question of survival for this sector, which represents a large part of the economy of our country, where reality shows us that dozens of smes are closing down every day. the competitiveness policies within the framework of a single market, such as those proclaimed by the eu 2020 strategy and which are part of the objectives of the cosme programme, are the same ones that lead companies to close their doors every day. the cuts in pensions and wages, the redundancies, so cheerfully promoted by the eu, particularly in the implementation of its pacts of aggression with national governments through the troika, are leading to the daily ruin of thousands of smes throughout the eu. this is a report full of good intentions, but it is accommodated by scarce resources and advocates proposals such as the development of the illusion of entrepreneurship as a miracle solution, which are dangerous for our youth, given the crisis that we are experiencing in portugal and in europe today.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that the next horizon 2020 programme will reinforce europe's leading position in a field where europe has lost ground in multiple areas. achieving this goal requires that europe's strengths be precisely identified, but it also implies that europe's weaknesses be recognised and corrected. as for its strengths, europe has world-leading researchers, entrepreneurs and companies, a set of deeply rooted values and traditions, a vibrant culture of creativity and diversity and the largest internal market in the world. finally, european business and civil society are actively engaged in emerging and developing economies around the world. however, at the same time, europe has a number of shortcomings: under-investment in our knowledge bases, unsatisfactory structural conditions and, finally, too much fragmentation, together with too much bureaucracy and the weight of the administrative machinery. as such, the proposal represents a real step forward: it strikes the right balance between the three pillars scientific excellence, industrial leadership and society challenges.
in writing. − horizon 2020 is the name of the european framework programme for research and innovation which will run for the period 2014-2020 and which is a core section of the europe 2020 strategy. the programme aims to strengthen the link between research and innovation by converting scientific breakthroughs into innovative products, thus responding to the challenges posed by globalisation (e.g. climate change, energy security and ageing population). horizon 2020 will meet the needs of businesses, universities and institutes in terms of fast and simplified access to finance. i believe that this programme is a practical solution to the crisis in europe.
in writing. − i share the view that the european research area should be geared towards scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges, and should have the committed participation of its key actors. these three components will not only help to reinforce each other but will also make the progress made in this area more solid and sustainable. i believe that the union's return to progress and development will depend on the emphasis given to research and innovation and the way in which their strategic importance is effectively recognised, an importance which must be realised in a real and productive way. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and i hope that research and innovation will be one of the main engines of the european union in the future.
in writing. − scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges are the three priorities that guide horizon 2020. behind these rhetoric lies a practice that channels the bulk of available r & d resources to institutions, public-private partnerships and companies, all of which are said to be of excellence, in some large countries. a practice which has made countries such as portugal, in recent years, a net contributor to the research framework programme. this report acknowledges this reality in part, but it is unlikely that the measures it proposes will change substantially as required. funding will be channelled to those projects which meet the criteria reflected in the programme's objectives, i.e. those projects which aim to exploit better the economic and industrial potential of innovation, research and technological development policies. here the so-called industrial leadership, the great european industry, will assert its interests. our vision of science and research differs in key aspects from the vision set out in this programme.
in writing. − this document is part of the legislative package for the horizon 2020 programme, which will run from 2014 to 2020 and which, for the first time, brings together all funding for research and innovation. horizon 2020 should be designed to actively contribute to the construction of the european research area (era). for this reason, horizon 2020 should be more than a funding programme and should have a structural effect on the organisation of research at european level. specific measures are therefore proposed that can contribute to building a stronger and more efficient era, relating to governance, project size and type, barriers to entry, gender equality, youth employment, dissemination and exploitation, strengthening of dialogue between science and society and international cooperation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - scientific excellence, industrial leadership and societal challenges are the three priorities driving horizon 2020. behind these clichés, it is important to realize that scientific excellence is the criterion that allows the selection of institutions, public-private partnerships and companies. many institutions will in practice be excluded from the possibility of receiving funding from this programme. funding will be channelled to those who meet the criteria reflected in the programme's objectives, i.e. to projects that better exploit the economic and industrial potential of innovation, research and technological development policies. the industrial leadership is playing an important role here and it is likely that it will continue to promote its interests, particularly those of large european industry. science and research will now contain in its formula the aspects of their economic value and the profit they can generate, as well as being tied to the political interests of the european union. we do not agree with this approach to funding research and innovation projects which must first of all seek to serve the needs of people and society. this decision establishes the specific programme for the implementation of horizon 2020 within the three priorities mentioned above.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that reliable and accurate european statistics play two vital roles as a public good: are the basic elements for decision-making by policy-makers and serve as a barometer for analysing the state of the economy and society, offering assurances to other governments and financial markets. however, events in recent years have shaken public and market confidence. a 2008 eurobarometer survey found that 45% of citizens do not trust economic statistics, a result virtually identical to the 46% who trust them. since then, we have seen how misleading and fraudulent statistics can contribute to political and economic unrest. indeed, the sovereign debt crisis was undoubtedly exacerbated by public and market scepticism about the accuracy of statistics on government debt and deficit levels. in this context, this regulation comes at an opportune time. we need to rebuild public confidence in statistical data. the adage goes, once statistics are politicized, they are quickly devalued. this is why it is essential to exclude politics from the production of statistics.
in writing. − reliable and accurate european statistics are essential, not only as a basis for policy-making but also as indicators which serve as a basis for analysing the state of the member states' economies and societies. the proposals in this report include the need for countries not to delay the dissemination of their statistics and lay down the rules to be followed by member states and their services in producing statistics. the purpose of this text is to clarify how the european statistical system (ess) will work in a way that is reliable, transparent and consistent. to this end, the eeas should be sufficiently resourced, have the necessary independence and adequate oversight (with sanctions for infringers if necessary). it is also foreseen that the director of eurostat will develop a greater interaction with parliament, to which he will have to render democratic accountability and discuss statistical production and governance policies. in view of the above and considering that public surveys have shown a low level of trust of european citizens in european statistics since 2008, i support this report as i believe that it will bring a more reliable statistical system that deserves the trust of all europeans.
in writing. - reliable and accurate european statistics are essential, not only as a basis for policy-making but also as indicators which serve as a basis for analysing the state of the economy and society in the member states. the proposals in this report include the need for countries not to delay the dissemination of their statistics and lay down the rules to be followed by member states and their services in producing statistics. the purpose of this text is to clarify how the european statistical system (ess) will work in order to make it reliable, transparent and consistent. to this end, the eeas should be sufficiently resourced, have the necessary independence and adequate oversight (with sanctions for infringers, if necessary). it is also foreseen that the director of eurostat will develop a greater interaction with parliament, to which he will have to render democratic accountability and discuss statistical production and governance policies. in view of the above and considering that public surveys have shown a low level of trust of european citizens in european statistics since 2008, i support this report which i believe will bring about a more reliable statistical system that deserves the trust of all europeans.
in writing. − reliable and accurate european statistics are essential, in particular for policymakers' decision-making, and serve as a barometer for analysing the state of the economy and society, offering assurances to other governments and financial markets. a report by the european court of auditors calls for a transition to a european statistical system that ensures professional independence, sufficient resources and effective supervision, including the application of sanctions in cases of non-compliance with quality standards. for the production of clear and independent statistics, i agree that the nsis should be free from any political interference, at national or european level. the appointment of the heads of the nis must be made in a transparent and fair manner, under parliamentary control.
in writing. − this report calls for a transition to a european statistical system that ensures professional independence, sufficient resources and effective supervision, including the application of sanctions in cases of non-compliance with quality standards. although it sets out objectives and principles which we can support, as regards the processing and collection of economic statistics, it presents others which are totally contradictory to the first and which we do not support. quality statistical production requires competent and qualified public services with sufficient resources, independent of economic power. the state is responsible for the accuracy and authenticity of statistical data. it is therefore your responsibility to provide these services. we cannot agree with the statement that statistics support and serve the monitoring of the results of the so-called economic governance (the six pack), that is, the guidelines of those who run the european institutions, the european bureaucracy and the interests it serves. the statistical indicators must be based on a full knowledge of social and economic realities and must not be selected with a view to pursuing political objectives which are, moreover, totally contrary to the defence of development and social progress.
in writing. − the purpose of this text is to clarify how the european statistical system (ess) will work in order to make it reliable, transparent and consistent. to this end, the eeas should be sufficiently resourced, have the necessary independence and adequate oversight (with sanctions for infringers, if necessary). reliable and accurate european statistics are essential, not only as indicators underpinning the analysis of the state of the economy and society in the member states, but also as a basis for policy-making. the proposals in this report include the need for countries not to delay in disseminating their statistics and lay down the rules to be followed by member states and their services in producing statistics. in view of the above and considering that public surveys have shown a low level of trust of european citizens in european statistics since 2008, i support this report which i believe will bring about a more reliable statistical system worthy of the trust of all europeans.
in writing. − reliable and accurate european statistics are vital as a public good. however, in recent years public and market confidence in these data has been declining. this regulation is a response to this problem, as it seeks to exclude policy from the production of statistics, for example, it is proposed that member states be prohibited from delaying the dissemination of periodic data. clarifying the functioning of the european statistical system esa is crucial to ensure its reliability, transparency and consistency. the eeas shall be sufficiently resourced, independent and adequately supervised. the director-general of eurostat should be brought closer to the european parliament by encouraging debate on statistical production and governance policies. the european parliament must also be accountable to the european parliament. these measures build confidence in the european statistical system, which is why i support the following report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the social change and innovation programme proposed by the european commission brings together three existing programmes - progress, eures and the european microfinance facility - into a new programme. in my view, the european commission's proposal to merge the three programmes in 2014 has been misplaced in terms of priorities. instead of optimising the three programmes and making them more effective, the objectives and measures are diluted following the merger. there is no substantive link between the three instruments. while common rules are formulated in part i, explicit references are also made to three distinct sub-programmes. i am of the opinion that, apart from an administrative simplification for the european commission, the merger of the three programmes does not bring any direct added value to european citizens. it is also noted that the commission proposal is extremely vague on many points, giving the commission a great deal of leeway in the implementation and design of the programme.
in writing. − the increase in unemployment in several countries and regions of the union has made even more evident the need for cross-border coordination and coherence on social and employment issues. i hope that the philosophy of the programmes now merged into the european union programme for social change and innovation will be preserved and that this merger will not take away their flexibility and responsiveness but rather contribute to enriching this response.
in writing. - in the current context, this programme can be important, important if, in fact, as it states, it aims to promote quality employment, which in our view are jobs with social and labour rights. the scepticism comes from the current social backsliding in several countries, of which the eu is an active and responsible part. we therefore hope that voluntary mobility, as stated in the report, will be that and not forced emigration, as is the case in many eu countries today. no country can develop without its young people, without the qualified staff it has trained. we have been advocating from the beginning for increased funding for microcredit. instead of the proposed 21%, we proposed to allocate 30%. public investment in the real economy, in productive investment, is essential at this time. finally, the concept of social entrepreneurship is misleading. public services have been shut down in several countries under the blackmail of the cuts. we will not accept that business is made from the sale of these services, which should be public and free. what is needed is their enhancement and diversification, responding to existing and emerging social needs. we do not accept its destruction to make way for such social entrepreneurship.
in writing. − the european commission created the social change and innovation programme by merging three existing programmes: the progress funding instrument, in the area of employment, social protection and inclusion, working conditions, combating discrimination and gender equality; eures, in the area of worker mobility; and the progress european microfinance instrument, which facilitates access to micro-credit. despite being opposed to this merger, the rapporteur and the council have reached compromises which allow us to adopt this report today. a single governance for programme implementation, monitoring and evaluation, horizontal partnerships between programmes, transparency in the application of funds and strengthening of the principle of partnership and dialogue with the social partners and non-governmental organisations are some examples. for these reasons, i am in favour of approving this programme.
in writing. - in the current context, this programme can be important, important if, in fact, as it states, it aims to promote quality employment which, in our view, is employment with social and labour rights. the scepticism comes from the current social backsliding in several countries, of which the eu is an active and responsible part. we therefore hope that voluntary mobility, as stated in the report, will be that and not forced emigration, as is the case in many eu countries today. no country can develop without its young people, without the qualified staff it has trained. we have been advocating from the beginning for increased funding for microcredit. instead of the allocated 21%, we propose to allocate 30%. at the moment, public investment in the real economy, in productive development, is essential. finally, the concept of social entrepreneurship is misleading. today, public services are shutting down in many countries under the blackmail of cutting spending. we will not accept that business is made from the sale of these services, which should be public and free, and which are being deliberately destroyed to benefit such 'social entrepreneurship'. weighing the report's strengths and weaknesses, we abstained.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting by pointing out that the selection of life projects is mainly based on their quality and their contribution to european added value, with a focus on demonstration/transfer potential and environmental/climate impact. experience from previous life programming periods has shown disparities between member states in the use of available life funds. some countries or regions have been able to prepare high quality projects repeatedly and secure their matching funds, and have therefore received overall more support through the life programme. this situation continued even after the introduction of the complex system of indicative national allocations in life+ (2007-2013). there is no doubt that the glaring inequalities in the allocation of projects have to be addressed in the new life regulation. i believe that european solidarity and responsibility sharing mean something different: member states and regions with low project selection rates need to be supported to achieve higher quality in their projects.
in writing. − as the epp shadow rapporteur for an opinion in the committee on budgets on the life programme, i supported the proposal put forward by the european commission to increase the co-financing rate for life projects to 70% of eligible costs. exceptionally, the maximum co-financing rate for projects in less developed regions is 80% of the eligible costs. in addition, vat costs should still be eligible in the case of project beneficiaries that do not have to recover vat costs in accordance with the vat rules in their member state.
in writing. − regardless of the more or less catastrophic nature of the information we are being given about the environment and climate change, it is imperative to recognise the need to take care of environmental preservation and to contribute to climate security. i believe that the environment and climate action programme, the fruit of a difficult but committed commitment, is animated by these aims and aims to equip the union with instruments appropriate to the scale of the challenge and to enable us to leave to our children, in the best possible conditions, the territory we love and received from our parents.
in writing. the report by mr jutta haug deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a programme for the environment and climate action (life). the life programme has been a considerable success in addressing the environmental and climate challenges facing europeans. it is an effective and well-targeted instrument, and is highly appreciated by local, regional and national public administrations, ngos, research institutions and smes. i would like to emphasize in this report the integrated projects, which under life are a concrete tool for integration. the aim of these projects is to support, along with other eu funds, the implementation of the most important environmental legislation. i believe that all projects should have a significant potential for job creation and growth. integrated projects should foster the creation of constructive and lasting cooperation between the different sectors, which will improve the coherence of eu spending.
in writing. − with its shortcomings and limitations, the life programme has been able to achieve positive concrete results in the field of nature conservation and biodiversity. the success of this programme proves the importance of its maintenance and reinforcement. we have proposed a significant increase in appropriations - to allocate at least 1% of the eu budget to life. with this proposal, we are a long way from that goal. there are still some problems, evident over the last few years, which need to be addressed, such as the levels of implementation by country. many projects have not yet been realised due to lack of support for project development and co-financing requirements. in many countries, the annual number of projects selected has often fallen short of their indicative allocation, a problem which has become more acute in recent years. the new concept of integrated projects presents national administrations with challenges and requirements which cannot be ignored, otherwise more resources will be wasted or they will be concentrated on the same resources as before. we also believe that new objectives must be matched by new and strengthened means. it is important that new climate objectives are not pursued at the expense of the weakening of nature conservation and biodiversity this has been and should continue to be the core of the life programme.
in writing. − to endow the life programme environment and climate action programme with an adequate budget and a significant share of overall eu spending is a strong indicator that the european union is serious about its environmental and climate commitments. over the past 20 years, this programme has been a huge success, appreciated by various public administrations, ngos, research institutions and small and medium-sized enterprises. life projects are selected on the basis of their quality and demonstration potential and environmental impact. however, the need for european solidarity with regard to member states with a low rate of project selection should be safeguarded in order to achieve a geographical balance. they should be supported through training and advisory services with a view to achieving higher quality in their projects. the life programme promotes the conservation of nature and biodiversity, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the fiscus programme, as proposed by the european commission, should be a single successor to the existing customs 2013 and fiscalis 2013 programmes. the fiscus programme, announced at the beginning of november as part of the wider package of the mff, is designed to merge the two programmes into one for reasons of simplification. this is an eu programme which should not have an impact on tax policy, which is a primary competence of the member states. however, i have serious reservations about the proposed merger of the two legal bases. the two programmes have different and distinct objectives and contexts and therefore should have different legal provisions on implementation, evaluation, monitoring and control. furthermore, since the commission has kept separate overall budgetary amounts for each of the programmes and has expressed its interest in preserving the identity of the programmes, it would be logical that the best way to ensure this would be to keep the programmes separate.
in writing. − this commission proposal is part of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in the discussions on the fiscalis programme 2014-2020, the main points emphasised by the european parliament were the need to combat tax fraud and evasion, double taxation, aggressive tax planning, the need for an integrated functioning of tax systems in line with the functioning of the internal market, and also increasing cooperation between countries. the programme could facilitate networking, joint actions and training for tax staff and could also finance computer systems to ensure the efficient exchange of large amounts of information between national tax administrations. the european parliament made some concessions in the negotiations with the commission and the council of the european union, particularly as regards the establishment of indicators for evaluating the programme in question in the member states. considering that this proposal contributes to the protection of the financial interests of the eu and the member states and to the improvement of the capacities of their tax authorities, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this commission proposal is part of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in the discussions on the fiscalis programme 2014-2020, the main points emphasised by the european parliament were the need to combat tax fraud and evasion, double taxation, aggressive tax planning, the need for an integrated functioning of tax systems in line with the functioning of the internal market, and also increasing cooperation between countries. the programme could facilitate networking, joint actions and training for tax staff and could also finance computer systems to ensure the efficient exchange of large amounts of information between national tax administrations. the european parliament made some concessions in the negotiations with the commission and the council of the european union, particularly as regards the establishment of indicators for evaluating the programme in question in the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the financial interests of the eu and the member states and to improve the capacity of their tax authorities.
in writing. − the fiscus programme, as proposed by the european commission, should be a single successor to the existing customs 2013 and fiscalis 2013 programmes. the fiscus programme, announced at the beginning of november as part of the wider package of the mff, is designed to merge the two programmes into one for reasons of simplification. despite the possible gains in terms of simplification, i have doubts about the merging advantages of these two programmes which are (and should continue to be) distinct.
in writing. - this proposal, while recognising some of the obstacles and distortions in the internal market, fails to take a critical stand against the mechanisms which provide for tax evasion and avoidance, i.e. the free movement of capital - the pillar of neoliberalism. no concrete measures are presented against the abolition of tax havens, nor is there any reference to taxation of the financial profits of large economic groups, or taxes on capital income. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. while cooperation in the field of taxation is important and necessary, we cannot ignore the fact that tax policy is a fundamental instrument of economic and social policy, in the definition of which obvious political criteria and objectives weigh. strengthening the mechanisms for computer systems, information exchange and staff training, which are intended to make the national tax authorities subject to a harmonisation with a class seal, without taking into account the specificities of the different member states, is not sufficient for an effective fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. we voted against it.
in writing. − this commission proposal is part of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. in the discussions on the fiscalis programme 2014-2020, the main points emphasised by the european parliament were the need to combat tax fraud and evasion, double taxation, aggressive tax planning, the need for an integrated functioning of tax systems in line with the functioning of the internal market, and also increasing cooperation between countries. the programme could facilitate networking, joint actions and training for tax staff and could also finance computer systems to ensure the efficient exchange of large amounts of information between national tax administrations. the european parliament made some concessions in the negotiations with the commission and the council of the european union, particularly as regards the establishment of indicators for evaluating the programme in question in the member states. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission.
in writing. − the fiscalis 2020 programme, which is part of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, encourages support for cooperation between national tax authorities to ensure the effective exchange of information. the programme may facilitate networking, joint actions and training for tax staff and may also finance computer systems. the main objectives of fiscalis 2020 are to protect the financial interests of the eu and the member states, with particular emphasis on the fight against fraud, reducing administrative burdens and cooperation with third countries. for these reasons i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal is to establish a single action programme for taxation in the eu, through cooperation between tax authorities, to strengthen the internal market and to support the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the proposal fails to take a critical stand against the mechanisms that provide for tax evasion and avoidance, i.e. the free movement of capital and the single market; the commission has not yet taken any concrete measures to put an end to tax havens; it does not deal with the taxation of the financial profits of large economic groups, or with taxes on capital income. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover all the member states. while cooperation in the field of taxation is important and necessary, we cannot ignore the fact that tax policy is a fundamental instrument of economic and social policy. the reinforcement of computer systems, information exchange and staff training mechanisms, which are intended to make the national tax authorities subject to harmonisation with a class seal, is not sufficient for an effective fight against tax fraud and evasion. we voted against this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, first of all expressing my great satisfaction that the commission has already taken into account parliament's request to split the previous proposal on the fiscus programme into the customs and fiscalis programmes. however, for reasons of visibility and legal clarity, the general and specific objectives and the operational objectives should be defined in the articles of the regulation. taking into account the dynamics of new customs challenges and the need to protect citizens against security risks arising from international trade in goods, greater emphasis should be placed on the harmonisation and standardisation of customs control procedures and the fight against fraud. in addition, as the commission proposal makes several references to indicators, it is important to establish the process for developing these indicators in order to monitor and assess the value and impact of the measures taken under the programme. in order to ensure the necessary degree of flexibility in this process, it is appropriate to empower the commission to carry out this activity within the framework of the annual work programme.
in writing. - the union's customs policy must seek to strike a balance between the protection of consumers and european production and the opening up of new markets, the increasing flow of goods or the quest for tariff disarmament and the need to impose charges on certain products. the division of the commission's proposal into two specifically oriented towards customs and tax matters shows the chamber's disbelief in the alleged advantages of their merger. i hope that the action programmes will achieve their intended aims and help the union to take concrete and firm steps in these particularly sensitive areas.
in writing. − the multiannual action programme for the customs sector for 2014-2020 (customs 2020) will ensure the continuation of the previous programme and aims to facilitate and strengthen cooperation between customs authorities in the eu. the programme also aims to contribute to the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy by strengthening the functioning of the internal market. the programme calls for full harmonization of customs procedures and controls. this implies the harmonization of all aspects relating to the collection, electronic data processing techniques and the use of common levels and modes of control over goods. in a world where trade is dominated by large transnational corporations, this programme aims to reflect and serve the interests of these same transnational corporations by reducing the time it takes for goods to move and simplifying customs procedures. simplifying, however, from the point of view of proper customs procedures and with a view to combating them, is not the same as facilitating. it is not by chance that the community texts often speak of facilitation rather than simplification. on the other hand, the loss of sovereignty of the member states over their customs policy raises concerns about who will be responsible for the collection and use of revenue, but also about how to find a common price in the context of harmonisation.
in writing. − the customs 2020 programme calls for action by the european union in the field of customs cooperation and customs union in the european area. a number of amendments to the programme regulation are proposed, in particular as regards the definition of the general, specific and operational objectives of the programme. the committee also calls for greater emphasis to be placed on the harmonization and standardization of customs control procedures and the fight against fraud. the possibility of allocating the budget of the annual work programme to respond to any changes in political priorities is also desirable. we must ensure effective protection of the eu's external borders and to do this we must strengthen technical capacities and ensure constant support for the various actions of the customs authorities.
in writing. − the multiannual action programme for the customs sector for the period 2014-2020 (customs 2020) will ensure the continuation of the previous programme and aims to facilitate and strengthen cooperation between customs authorities in the union. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the programme requires the full harmonisation of customs procedures and controls, which implies the harmonisation of almost all aspects of collection, electronic data processing techniques and the use of common levels and modes of control over goods. in a world where trade is dominated by large transnational companies, this programme would have to reflect and serve the interests of these same transnational companies by reducing the time it takes for goods to move and simplifying customs procedures. now, simplifying is not the same as facilitating. it is not by chance that the community texts often speak of facilitation rather than simplification. the loss of sovereignty of the member states over their customs policy raises concerns about who will be responsible for collecting and using the revenue, but also about how to find a common price in the context of harmonisation.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the negotiations on the omnibus ii directive have not yet been concluded. the deadline for transposition, which was until 30 june 2013, should be extended for a final time. if this date is not changed, the solvency ii directive will have to be applied without the transitional rules and other important adaptations provided for in the omnibus ii directive. in order to prevent this from happening and to ensure the legal continuity of the current solvency provisions (solvency i) until the full entry into force of the solvency ii package, it is proposed to extend the relevant transposition deadline provided for in directive 2009/138/ec for the last time until 31 january 2015. it is also important that supervisors and insurance and reinsurance undertakings are given some time to prepare for the implementation of the solvency ii package. therefore, it is proposed to extend the date of application of the solvency ii package one last time to 1 january 2016. this will enable supervisory approval procedures to be initiated, for example on internal models and company-specific parameters.
in writing. − in this report, the european parliament endorses the european commission's position on the solvency ii directive. the solvency ii project aims to review the prudential regime for insurance and reinsurance in the european union, with a view to enhancing supervision of these activities, enhancing risk control, prudential measures and standardising activities and reporting systems. due to delays in the negotiations of the omnibus 2 legislation, it has become necessary to postpone the transposition and entry into force of this directive. in this respect, member states will defer the transposition of the directive into their national legislation. the date initially planned for 30 june 2012 is now 31 december 2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in question. the report does not therefore alter the content of the proposed directive, but only approves the date of its transposition in the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in this report, the european parliament endorses the european commission's position on the solvency ii directive. the solvency ii project aims to review the prudential regime for insurance and reinsurance in the european union, with a view to enhancing supervision of these activities, enhancing risk control, prudential measures and standardising activities and reporting systems. due to delays in the negotiations of the omnibus 2 legislation, it has become necessary to postpone the transposition and entry into force of this directive. in this connection, member states will defer the transposition of the directive into their national legislation. the date originally set for 30 june 2012 is now 31 december 2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in question. the report does not therefore alter the content of the proposed directive, but only approves the date of its transposition in the member states. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. − given that the negotiations for the omnibus ii directive are still ongoing and that this directive largely affects the content of the solvency ii directive, the european parliament was once again forced to review the date of transposition of the solvency ii directive to january 2016. i would remind you that the solvency ii directive aims at creating a more modern system based on risk assessment for all european insurers. however, it was necessary to harmonise this directive with the new rules of the lisbon treaty through the omnibus ii directive, which has been delaying the implementation of the solvency ii directive.
in writing. − this report proposes a directive postponing the dates for transposition and application of directive 2009/138/ec, giving supervisory authorities and insurance and reinsurance undertakings sufficient time to prepare for the implementation of the new insurance sector supervisory architecture, the creation of the european supervisory authority (eiopa). as you know, we were against this new architecture of so-called supervision. directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council establishes a risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the eu. this directive recognises the importance of insurance guarantee schemes (igs) in reducing the risks faced by policyholders and, where appropriate, by policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance undertaking, by minimising the likelihood of an insurer going bankrupt and the resulting disruption to policyholders or, as the case may be, policyholders. the report therefore calls for the postponement of the transposition of directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) and the repeal of the directives to 1 january 2014. the content of this report being eminently technical and in view of our critical position towards eiopa and the directive in question, we abstained.
in writing. - in this report, the european parliament endorses the european commission's position on the solvency ii directive. the solvency ii project aims to review the prudential regime for insurance and reinsurance in the european union, with a view to enhancing supervision of these activities, enhancing risk control, prudential measures and standardising activities and reporting systems. due to delays in the negotiations of the omnibus 2 legislation, it has become necessary to postpone the transposition and entry into force of this directive. in this connection, member states will defer the transposition of the directive into their national legislation. the date originally set for 30 june 2012 is now 31 december 2014. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in question. the report does not therefore alter the content of the proposed directive, but only approves the date of its transposition in the member states. in the circumstances i have voted in favour of this text.
in writing. − the solvency ii project provides a modern system, with risk indicators, for the supervision of the prudential regulation of insurance and reinsurance in the european union. due to delays in the negotiations of the omnibus 2 legislation, the following report proposes that the application of this legislation take effect from 1 january 2016 and not 1 january 2014 as originally planned. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report proposes a directive postponing the dates for transposition and application of directive 2009/138/ec, giving supervisory authorities and insurance and reinsurance undertakings sufficient time to prepare for the implementation of the new insurance sector supervisory architecture, the creation of the european supervisory authority (eiopa). on 19 january 2011, the commission adopted a proposal (the omnibus ii proposal) to amend directive 2009/138/ec. directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council establishes a risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the union. this directive is part of the focus of insurance guarantee schemes (igs) on reducing the risks faced by policyholders and, where appropriate, by policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance undertaking, by minimising the likelihood of an insurer going bankrupt and the resulting disruption to policyholders or, as the case may be, policyholders. the report therefore calls for the postponement of the transposition of directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) and the repeal of the directives to 1 january 2014. in view of our critical position on eiopa and the directive in question, we abstained.
in writing. - i approve of this report, starting by stressing that developing countries, and especially ldcs, should be fully involved in the negotiations preparing the possible outcome of the 9th ministerial conference, in order to ensure their consensus and ownership. i therefore call on the european union to help find a satisfactory solution in the four areas of concern for the ldcs, namely: implementation of the decision on fully duty-free and quota-free market access; preferential rules of origin; cotton and operationalisation of the derogation on services for the ldcs. i reiterate that it is imperative to ensure that the principle of special and differential treatment is an integral part of all stages of the negotiations, reflecting the different levels of economic development of wto members. i also believe that in order to be effective, the provisions on special and differential treatment must be more precise, subject to periodic review and applied selectively. i would conclude by saying that a binding agreement on trade facilitation should provide for a differentiated period of phasing-in and be accompanied by a binding agreement on financing capacity and technical assistance to developing countries.
in writing. - the european union and the freedom of free trade within it are, despite the present crisis, eloquent proof of the advantages that trade liberalisation can bring to businesses and people. i hope that the trend towards removing unnecessary barriers to trade will not be reversed at the ninth ministerial conference and that, on the contrary, the commitment to multilateralism and trade liberalization will be strengthened and that this will translate into an increase in the flow of trade on a world scale. i hope that this liberalization will be accompanied by a growing awareness that the human beings who produce goods and services are more than mere producers and that disregard for their rights not only contributes to the decline in the competitiveness of enterprises but also threatens the dignity of the person, a value which must prevail over any purely economic or financial reasoning. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
in writing. − in the face of the failure of the wto negotiations and the various initiatives and attempts to give a new impetus to the conclusion of the doha development agenda (dda), attention is focused on the 9th wto ministerial conference. once again, the majority in this parliament is trying to sell the idea that add is of the utmost importance to meet the needs and interests of developing countries, in particular the least developed countries, and that they will be the most harmed by a further failure, thus whitewashing the content of the doha agenda. it is the usual vision of free trade, insistently promoted by its heralds, seemingly unashamed by the reality that flatly and repeatedly denies it. add seeks to advance the liberalisation of trade in goods and services, insisting that free trade from any obstacles for large multinationals is the way to promote development and that only multilateral trade liberalisation agreements guarantee a trading system based on shared, fair, open and non-discriminatory rules. the wto serves the interests of these large multinationals by ensuring the expansion of markets, boosting profits and access to raw materials and removing obstacles to further exploitation of the capitalist periphery.
in writing. - i welcome this report, beginning by affirming my support for the ambitions underlying the planned introduction of the european youth guarantee and the desire to provide it with sufficient financial resources as an important instrument to support member states' efforts to mitigate the effects of the huge unemployment among young people, especially in countries severely affected by the crisis. i would stress the importance of the measures envisaged to promote entrepreneurship and training in this field, since they are aimed at creating sustainable employment and have virtually no effect on profitability. i also call on the commission and the member states to consider further measures, such as tax relief, to encourage smes to employ young people. finally, i would urge the commission to strengthen, through intermediary organisations, the monitoring, advice and assistance measures for enterprises, especially the smallest ones, and to set up programmes to promote guidance and assistance measures developed by older entrepreneurs, motivated to act as mentors or tutors for young entrepreneurs in the process of setting up start-up companies or recovering companies in crisis, making their know-how and experience available.
in writing. − supporting smes and stimulating competitiveness and entrepreneurship is essential for an effective exit strategy and economic recovery of eu countries. support for entrepreneurship, especially for smes, the backbone of our economy, is essential for a realistic and effective policy for growth, jobs and innovation.
in writing. the resolution aims to make private enterprise the panacea for the ills of capitalism and the consequences of its crisis, with mass unemployment at the forefront. the individual is cunningly held responsible for creating his own workplace, while the state is relieved of responsibility. the resolution expresses concern that fewer and fewer eu citizens are considering the possibility of working for themselves. indeed, what citizen is willing to risk debt and entrepreneurship to try his luck in the business world faced with a european single market where the big european economic groups are the ones who make the rules and who get the biggest share of the profits? according to the ine, the 2-year survival rate of firms has fallen by more than 10% in the last eight years, while the mortality rate of firms has been steadily increasing. the resolution also talks about the opportunities offered by the digital single market, and it is worth asking: which ones and for whom? the resolution mentions the inclusion of entrepreneurship in national school curricula, a very serious aspect, because it wants to create the illusion to young people from an early age that if they want a job, they will one day have to create it. a brazen ideological offensive is what it is.
in writing. − this resolution calls for all measures proposed in the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan to promote entrepreneurship at national and european level to be applicable to all types of enterprises, such as the liberal professions, cooperatives, craft workshops and social enterprises. it is also emphasised that economic and entrepreneurial skills and competences are key to lifelong learning and that, given weak economic growth and high unemployment, stronger measures are needed in the short and medium term to strengthen and promote entrepreneurship, especially among young people. for these reasons i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report. this report should not be seen as a defence of increased militarisation of the european union, but rather as a way of betting on a more efficient management of our security and defence policy. it is important to focus our diplomatic and logistical capabilities and resources on civilian and peaceful solutions to conflicts.
in writing. - this report assigns a central role to the military in the security of energy resources and trade routes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it regrets that tactical groups have never been deployed in military operations in the eu. it advocates a general eu framework with information support as well as a permanent defence council. it does not distinguish between civilian and military research and funding, as well as internal and external security, generally pointing to militarized solutions rather than focusing capabilities on civilian and peaceful solutions to conflicts. in any case, we are faced with an unconcealed and deplorable militaristic and warmongering agenda. we reject this report which aims to turn the eu into a world military actor, the european pillar of nato, which, by centralising and increasing european armaments, not only denies the values of peace but also constitutes a threat to the freedom and sovereignty of peoples.
in writing. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp) and will continue to monitor the implementation of the csdp. the european parliament wants the union to take a leading role in the international arena, but to do so it needs to revise its defence strategy. a permanent operational headquarters for crisis response is one of the solutions put forward by this house. in the area of industry, it stressed the need to coordinate the actual military capabilities and their interoperability. i am in favour of a deepening of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. − this report gives the military a central role in the security of energy resources and trade routes, advocating the reinforcement of eu militarisation, proposing a european army, calling for more military missions and capabilities in the common defence and security policy, and regretting that tactical groups have never been deployed in military operations in the eu. it advocates a general eu framework with intelligence support, as well as a permanent defence council, the strengthening of internal and external security, i.e. it advocates the strengthening of the eu's militarisation. we oppose this report which seeks to transform the eu into a world military actor by means of a policy which fulfils the eu's role as the european pillar of nato and which, by centralising and increasing european armaments, not only denies the values of peace but also constitutes a threat to the freedom and sovereignty of peoples.
in writing. - i approve this report mainly in order to strengthen cooperation in the field of armaments, in particular through mutualisation and sharing. in this connection, it is important to maintain and develop a common security and defence policy.
in writing. - this report confirms the eu's objective of strengthening its military component. it confirms your imperial ambitions to recolonize the planet. the way was opened by the treaty of lisbon. it is argued that the common defence and security policy needs a strong european industrial and technological base and that this should be its priority, subjecting eu policies to nato obligations. the report proposes that the reductions in defence investment be ended, stating that these reductions in defence budgets represent a strategic risk. the european military-industrial complex is making its voice heard through this report - which suggests increasing the defence budget, encouraging arms exports, encouraging the development of a military-industrial complex by creating the european defence market, proposing the use of european budgets to finance the military aspects. the report even calls for the fusion of civil and military research and funding, the militarisation of civilian knowledge and policies, and the creation of a more competitive european defence market. deplorable and repulsive. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − as the council on defence meets next december, the european parliament presents this own-initiative report as a compendium of recommendations to strengthen the technological and industrial base of european defence, to ensure the independence and autonomy and to maintain this innovative sector. the european parliament therefore proposes that member states coordinate their military policies and participate in research and innovation programmes, as underlined in the horizon 2020 programme. the commission also stressed the need for a white paper setting out the union's ambition and objectives in the field of security and defence, which would serve as a guide for developments in the industry itself. i shall vote in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. - this report clearly confirms the european union's objective of strengthening the militarist component and the imperialist and re-colonization pretensions of the planet, which were developed in the treaty of lisbon, by arguing that the common defence and security policy needs a strong european industrial and technological base, and this should be its priority, subjecting eu policies to the obligations arising from nato. the report proposes that the reductions in defence investment be ended by blackmail, by claiming that these reductions in defence budgets represent a strategic risk. to counteract this situation, the report suggests increasing the defence budget, encouraging arms exports, promoting the development of a military and industrial complex by creating the european defence market and proposing the use of european budgets to finance the military aspects. the report even calls for the merging of research and civil and military funding in order to create a more competitive european defence market. the militarization of the eu serves no people, the csdp is a contribution to the arms race, including nuclear arms, to promote fabulous profits for the military-industrial complex of the eu and the transnational corporations. we voted against it.
in writing. - i welcome the commission communication on the social dimension of economic and monetary union and regard it as a first step towards building a social dimension of emu. i do, however, believe that more specific proposals are needed to ensure that economic governance respects the social dimension. i therefore call for social considerations to be placed at the heart of european integration and for them to be included in all european union policies and initiatives. i also believe that the social dimension should be a factor of conciliation/commitment in terms of benchmarks. i also note that the purpose of the social dimension of emu is to provide social security and adequate living standards for present and future generations and so i consider it important that the citizens of the european union should see that their union is capable of promoting social progress, because i consider the development of a social europe aiming at social union to be a necessary consequence of european integration. however, i do regret that the proposed indicators are wholly inadequate to ensure a comprehensive coverage of the social and employment situations in the member states.
in writing. − the employment picture in europe is worrying, not only because there are increasing differences between member states in the level of unemployment, but also because the percentage of youth unemployment is very high. more than 20 member states of the european union have a youth unemployment rate of over 20%. these differences are contrary to the values of the european project based on solidarity and economic and social cohesion. in the context of economic and monetary union, problems in one member state may also spread to other countries, leading to the need for coordinated action in these areas. i therefore welcome the development of a genuine social dimension in economic and monetary union. the european council of december 2013 is called upon to define concrete steps forward with regard to the development of a genuine social pillar as part of economic and monetary union, based on the community method. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − unemployment in the eu now stands at 26.6 million and poverty levels have been rising in the eu, while household income has been falling, with the result that 24.2% of the eu population is now at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the deterioration of social conditions is evident and the effort to consolidate public accounts and the austerity measures applied somewhat across the eu have had social impacts that need to be mitigated. the commission's concerns expressed in the communication on the social dimension of economic and monetary union (emu) are therefore welcome, especially for someone who comes from a state which has felt, in a very particular way, the social effects of the effort required to comply with a necessary financial assistance programme.
in writing. − on 2 may 1998, the list of 11 founding countries of the eurozone was approved and it was stated that the euro would bring high growth rates. other promises were made: increased employment, real convergence of economies, convergence of wages, that the euro would be a shield against the crisis. anyway, if ridicule was to kill... the truth is known. between 2000 and 2009, as we predicted and we predicted, the macroeconomic imbalances within the eurozone worsened, the imbalances in the trade balances of some countries became more pronounced, we had debtor countries and creditor countries. the objective of price stability is backed up by the objective of reducing unit labour costs. without monetary and exchange rate sovereignty, the only adjustment factors were the devaluation of wages and the rise in unemployment. the mechanism of the stability pact associated with the euro and its successors, such as the european semester, have created absolute constraints on any possibility of endogenous development. now, concerned about the increase in inequalities and the brutal consequences of austerity measures, they argue that emu must ensure a social dimension. can the emu be compatible with social policy? we don't think he did. rather than seeking to minimize the effects of this policy, it must be rejected.
in writing. − on 2 may 1998, the list of 11 founding countries of the euro area was approved it was stated that the euro would bring high growth rates. but between 2000 and 2009, macroeconomic imbalances worsened, with countries having very different trade balances, and the creation of debtor countries and creditor countries. the objective of price stability is backed up by the objective of reducing unit labour costs. without monetary and exchange rate sovereignty, the only adjustment factors were the devaluation of wages and the rise in unemployment. the stability pact mechanism associated with the euro and its predecessors such as the european semester have created absolute constraints on any possibility of endogenous development. the ep is concerned about the growing inequalities and the brutal consequences of austerity measures and argues that emu must ensure a social dimension. can the emu be compatible with social policy? we don't think he did. macroeconomic constraints based on austerity (economic governance, european semester, two-pack, budgetary treaty) should not be minimized but totally rejected. that is why we voted against it.
the political, economic and social instability in bangladesh is of particular concern in the run-up to the presidential elections, given the deterioration of human rights in the country. in this resolution, we urge the political leaders of the government and the opposition to put the security and interest of the people above their differences, working towards an end to violence, abductions and arbitrary detentions, and to ensure that there are transparent and orderly elections. and they cannot be if human rights activists, journalists and trade union leaders cannot do their work in freedom and safety because of the intervention of the authorities. the mass trial of hundreds of soldiers involved in the 2009 uprising resulted in the death penalty for 157 soldiers, but that conviction is being called into question by allegations of torture and violations of basic international standards of justice. we demand an independent investigation, we demand an official moratorium on the death penalty so that no more injustices are committed with irreversible consequences.
the european parliament has also called for the european union to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. qatar has the highest percentage of foreign workers in the world, 90 percent of the entire workforce, which obviously means that qatar also has particular responsibilities in respecting and enforcing the human and labour rights of immigrants. after the death of several foreign workers in qatar, the international community can no longer tolerate a situation that is equated to near slavery. qatar must answer for the abuses committed against foreign workers, it must guarantee decent working conditions, it must guarantee the right of workers to leave their employers and their own country. it's not enough to make a statement of intent or perform cosmetic surgery. the european union and fifa must insist that qatar apply labour laws to meet its international obligations, including under the ilo convention on forced labour, ratify international covenants, investigate and prosecute those responsible for this discrimination.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the failure of the last three decades of the common fisheries policy is evident. a centralised management, far removed from reality, unaware of the profound diversity of fisheries in europe, has had disastrous economic, social and environmental results. however, the lisbon treaty has given the european union exclusive, rather than shared, responsibility for the management of living marine resources, thus aggravating the whole problem. the constraint that this institutional framework represents for the implementation of a local authority management system that best serves the objectives of sustainability was evident throughout the process of discussing the reform. the change in this institutional framework is a persistent need which we will have to meet sooner or later. it is significant that the one which was presented as one of the pillars of this reform and a mainstay of the proclaimed regionalization - the multiannual plans - persists, entangled in an institutional conflict that is not visible, which foreshadows, here too, the confirmation of the old maxim that something must change in order for everything to remain the same.
the reform of the cfp, which has been achieved after a long process of analysis, proposals and negotiations, is fairly balanced, especially if we take into account the commission's original proposal which neglected the balance, now closer, between the three fundamental pillars of the cfp: environmental, social and economic. the major problems arise precisely from the imbalance between the three pillars and the underestimation of the differences between industrial and small-scale fisheries, between monospecific fisheries in the north and multispecific fisheries in the south. i am referring to the objective of achieving maximum sustainable yield wherever possible by 2015 and at the latest by 2020, which is achievable for clean fisheries, but very difficult for multi-species fisheries. the same applies to the timetable for complying with the obligation to land all catches, which is very demanding for mixed fisheries in the south, which catch a wide variety of species and specimens of varying sizes, and require adaptations to the logistical conditions of vessels and port infrastructure. in this context, i regret that the regionalisation of the cfp has always been more of an ideal than a reality. in any event, the new cfp brings with it some very positive aspects, such as the scientific basis for policy decisions, the establishment of multiannual management plans, the creation of recovery zones for stocks, increased protection of sensitive biogeographical areas, the strengthening of the powers of the advisory councils, etc. let us support the sector to help it in this transition to take advantage of the new instruments that have been established.
the cfp reform now presents the opportunity to improve proximity management, promote sustainability and the exploitation of resources and the viability of coastal communities dependent on fisheries from a more specific view of our regions. the rejection of transferable quotas was very important in this respect. the cfp, with its financial instruments, must also ensure that the necessary support is given not only to the fishermen but also to the scientific community in order to achieve the objectives. it is essential that areas identified as sensitive biogeographically are now also protected from under-exploitation by external fleets, as is the case in the azores. the adoption of a jrc for the outermost regions also makes an indispensable contribution to the promotion of this ecosystem approach which takes account of our sensitive nature and our specific characteristics. finally, we must now ensure that foreign traders are treated equally in international trade.
the situation of the sardine fishery in the north-east atlantic requires a discussion that goes beyond the fishing levels of iceland and the faroe islands. it is the allocation of quotas between member states itself that deserves serious discussion on the basis of up-to-date information on the status of the resource and its stock. the evolution of the stock has led, for example in portugal, to a higher relative abundance of the species in national waters in recent years, so that the current portuguese quota is inadequate in relation to the actual situation of the resource, as is shown, moreover, by the fact that the quota is normally closed much earlier than in other countries and in a situation of proven abundance of the resource. the resource allocation keys between member states shall monitor the evolution of the stock and the relative abundance of resources in each zone. this is the only way to avoid that, in the name of relative stability, absolute stability, which is unfair and unsuitable for reality, is actually imposed.
this report is a good example of the desirable work that can be done in parliament between the various political groups. and also between divergent interests, as sometimes happens between the fishing industry and environmentalists. it started with a radical proposal from the commission and came to a consensus report, which preserves the fundamental principles of protecting sensitive habitats and maintaining reasonable operational conditions for the fleet. a realistic and pragmatic proposal was put forward, focusing on research into deep-sea habitats and the impact assessment of fishing gear targeting deep-sea species, and providing for measures to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems, the location of which should be identified by the member states and communicated to the commission. i think that this agreement, which is so difficult to achieve and a true example of parliamentary work, cannot and must not be broken tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. the draft agreement under discussion today responds to parliament's main concerns set out in our resolution of 14 december 2011, which we adopted following the rejection of the previous agreement. i thank the commissioner for having taken our views into account in the proposal she has put before us and for having negotiated with the kingdom of morocco. from an economic point of view, the reduction in costs borne by the community budget and the increase in the compensation of shipowners is positive. from a social point of view, the expectation of employment with high labour standards for europeans and moroccans is also positive. from an environmental point of view, the exclusion of exploitation of endangered resources, such as seafood and cephalopods, and the fixing of pelagic catches within sustainable limits, as well as the reinforcement of scientific cooperation to ensure compliance with sustainability objectives, are of particular importance. with regard to the sensitive issue of western sahara, the agreement for the first time provides that the financial means for the development of the sector must be applied fairly and proportionately throughout the territory of morocco and the territory of western sahara occupied by that country for the benefit of their populations and with the monitoring of the joint commission. the human rights clause, which states that any failure to comply with the agreement will lead to its suspension, has already been mentioned here today. for all these reasons, i call on the house, as the shadow rapporteur of my political group, the s&ds, to vote in favour of this fisheries agreement. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would like to ask mr capoulas santos what his position was when, a few years ago, indonesia, which was illegally occupying east timor, made an agreement with third countries for the exploitation of oil in the timor sea. i ask you today, what was your position then, did you consider this agreement fair and acceptable?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. mr president, in the light of international law, an agreement which ensures that the occupying power uses the exploited resources for the benefit of the population is considered legal. this is guaranteed in the moroccan agreement, it was not guaranteed in the oil exploration agreement then carried out by indonesia in the territory of east timor.
we have said this on several occasions and we reiterate it here: we have nothing against a fisheries agreement with morocco, an agreement which is fair, which respects the principles of sustainability and which is mutually beneficial. but an agreement which, in addition to moroccan waters, includes resources over which morocco has no sovereignty in the light of international law is an illegal agreement, which we cannot accept. the inclusion of the waters of western sahara in this agreement, which the european commission is unfortunately insisting on, is contrary to the decision of the international court of justice and to several united nations resolutions. it's an affront to international law. moreover, given the situation on the ground, this is a demonstration of the value of the hypocritical human rights clauses which the european union puts into its agreements. it is worth remembering that even the united states has explicitly excluded products from western sahara from its trade agreement with morocco. meanwhile, the european commission insists on illegality. let us hope that this parliament will not follow in his footsteps.
since december 2011, when parliament rejected the eu-morocco fisheries agreement, the european fleet has had to leave moroccan waters, with a high loss that has been accumulating until today. here, as in other waters of third countries where the union stops fishing, its position is occupied by other interests which, unlike what happens among us, ignore human rights and neglect both the fair remuneration of the indigenous populations and a sustainable management of fisheries. in view of the reasons for parliament's negative vote in 2011 and the guidelines of the resolution adopted on the same day, the agreement presented here today responds to the objections of the past by following the recommendations of that time. that is what is objectively unquestionable. this protocol is compatible with international law, more environmentally sustainable, more economically viable than the previous one. it provides for an increase in fishing opportunities of up to 33%, based on scientific advice, an improvement in the cost-benefit ratio between the financial contribution and fishing opportunities, a change in fishing areas and the operational conditions of the fleet, and the monitoring by the european union of the use of sectoral support and its socioeconomic impact on a geographical basis, ensuring that part of the financial compensation is actually applied in western sahara. voting against the agreement would harm the european fleet and the people of sarawak, by breaking good relations between morocco and the european union, the only fishing power in the region that respects human rights. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would like to ask mrs patrão neves if, for example, your country were occupied by a foreign power and if that power entered into an agreement with other countries for the exploitation of your country's fishery resources, would you consider that fair and acceptable? what if you were to be satisfied with the declaration by the occupying power of your country that it would use the profits generated by the fisheries agreement of your country for the benefit of the local population?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. this is a re-issue of the same question you have already put to my colleague mr capoulas santos, who, like myself, is also in favour of this agreement. the answer has already been given, in fact this agreement is in accordance with international law and therefore your question is a hypothetical question, which does not apply in this case.
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would just like to ask if mr arlacchi is aware of who was the power that most inspired morocco to occupy the territory of western sahara. it is a great surprise to me to see you now invoking the united states as a good-will actor in relation to sara, when we all know that the united states gave the green light for morocco to occupy the territory.
the programme of destruction and looting of national resources in portugal is continuing under the auspices of the european union and the imf. the privatisation of strategic and profitable public enterprises is continuing. after edp, ren and ana, the ctt, the portuguese post office, is now in the lead. overnight a public company that took hundreds of years to build was alienated by 70%, more than 40% to foreign capital. the state is thus deprived of strategic instruments for promoting economic development and social justice, in addition to future profits and dividends in exchange for a revenue that does not exceed 2% of the total amount of the public debt, a debt that is constantly increasing. but this theft from the country and its people pays a lot to a few, a few. in a country pushed into collective impoverishment, the 25 largest companies, the 25 largest fortunes, i say, have grown 16% in one year and are now worth 10% of gross domestic product. this is the result of a policy that sows poverty, destroys wealth, but creates wealth. this is the path we must end as soon as possible.
the portuguese government has decided to dismantle the viana do castelo shipyards, that is to say, it has decided to apply to one of the few remaining public undertakings in portugal the same recipe as it is applying to the country. the minister for protection has apologised for a supposed demand from brussels for the return of 180 million euros, but the truth is, commissioner, that we have not yet heard a single word from the european commission's directorate-general for competition and it was important to have it to understand whether what the minister said was true or whether he is using brussels as an excuse. furthermore, we do not even know the rules or the intentions of this business, but there is clear evidence that the management that is being done is a harmful management. instead of finding the real culprits, what is being done is to punish the workers and their families and to once again give away the heritage that is ours. for all this the population has mobilized and continues to fight because it knows that shipbuilding cannot die in portugal and, once again, the government is fighting against the interests of the country.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and tell her that we need a stable and integrated space industry policy that can compete with the other major global players, with the european space agency, with the union and between the union and the member states. programmes such as galileo, copernicus and egnos are priority, must cover the whole of the union and are good examples of a coherent and competitive space industrial policy with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises and a strong research and development component. the europe 2020 strategy recognises the role of the space industry as a vehicle for innovation, competitiveness, employment and growth. it is a relevant sector in the protection and security of citizens, in the response to crisis scenarios, in the common security and defence policy, in the daily life of telecommunications, transport and ict. it is an area that needs a stronger push.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. - mr president, i thank mrs göncz for her excellent work. we have reached a good agreement and, above all, we have been able to defend a strong position during the negotiations with the commission and the council, which has resulted in adequate funding. the rights, equality and citizenship programme now includes the well-known daphne programme, the only european programme for preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women. in europe, 18 women are killed every day, 12 of them by their partners or other family members. more than one in ten have experienced sexual violence and 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence in childhood. to continue to combat this scourge, it was essential to make the prevention and combating of this type of violence a specific objective of the future programme and to retain the name daphne to identify projects related to this objective. adequate and balanced funding is also ensured. it is therefore a great victory for the european parliament to be able to continue with the new programme as a tool at the disposal of the non-governmental organisations that fight violence against children, young people and women every day.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mrs reding, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs berlinguer, claeys and kinga göncz for the excellent work they have done and i would like to say, on the new justice programme for the period 2014-2020, that i agree with the merger of the three current programmes: civil justice, criminal justice and drug information and prevention. i hope that this will contribute to increased transparency, functionality and effectiveness and ensure more results-oriented funding and more efficient allocation of funds to horizontal issues such as training and awareness-raising. we want to contribute to the creation of a genuine area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, by promoting effective, comprehensive and consistent application of european union law in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, by promoting access to justice and by preventing and reducing the demand for, consumption of and supply of drugs. in the area of citizenship and citizens' rights, i acknowledge that significant progress has been made, but the truth is that enormous challenges remain, ranging from insufficient or inconsistent enforcement of certain rights to lack of awareness by citizens and even some public bodies. i hope that the new rights and citizenship programme will contribute to the creation of an area in which the rights of individuals are promoted and protected, the rights conferred by european citizenship are promoted, the principles of non-discrimination, gender equality, respect for the rights of the child are effectively applied, a high level of protection of personal data is ensured and consumers and businesses are given the means to trade and buy with confidence in the internal market.
in writing. in an opinion i authored, adopted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the committee urged the commission and the council to take gender equality into account as a specific objective in the rights and citizenship programme and to maintain the daphne programme as an independent sub-heading of the rights and citizenship programme. it is virtually agreed that the daphne programme has been and could continue to be relevant in the fight against violence against women, including sexual exploitation and human trafficking. the same objective will be set in this programme, but the question is what funding is allocated to this objective. how do we know how much money will be allocated to fighting violence under the 43% of group 2? how can we be sure that the bulk of group 2 funding will not be allocated to other objectives under the same heading, such as those for consumers and businesses in the internal market, leaving the fight against violence unfunded? this process of assimilation and merging of programmes has this serious problem the uncertainty that each different objective has funding objectively earmarked for its achievement. we can't congratulate ourselves.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, the european commission and also the irish and lithuanian presidencies for their efforts to make this agreement possible and so that we can have the new legislation in force as from january. the frequency of disasters has been increasing with average annual losses amounting to 0.25% of world gdp. over the past 20 years, disasters in europe have killed around 90 000 people, affected more than 29 million and caused €211 billion in economic losses. these are numbers that deserve our attention. the latest dramatic case in the philippines has already been mentioned. the increase in the number and severity of disasters worldwide is partly due to the effects of climate change, which also requires that prevention policies be given priority. the lisbon treaty includes a solidarity clause, which establishes the obligation of member states to assist each other in the event of natural or man-made disasters both inside and outside the union. the agreement reached with the council differs significantly from the more ambitious proposal put forward by the european commission and also from the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament, and is therefore not desirable. however, it was the possible agreement, given the time constraints and the divergences within the council, which made negotiations difficult and led to a common position which was not ambitious. i would like to conclude by saying that prevention is better, because it will be more effective and cheaper than remediation.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i think, madam president, that this text has fallen a little short of expectations, in that it has not gone as far as it should have in terms of prevention. the agreement reached has obviously very positive aspects, because it extends the scope of civil protection not only to disasters directly affecting human beings, but also to those affecting the environment or heritage aspects. it also respects the principle of subsidiarity, which means that this mechanism can only be used at the request of a member state. it is not, for example, a mechanism that intervenes against the will of the member states and can therefore be an important instrument of solidarity. in fact, we have been seeing a great increase in so-called natural disasters, but they have much more to do with climate change and the way capitalism is predatory on the environment and its effect on the environment and on human beings, the effect of this voracity of capitalism, but what is certain is that when these disasters do occur, it is important that there is an urgent and effective response to the affected populations and from that point of view, i think this agreement means a step forward. we hope that there is no intention here that they may be used for military purposes, but on the other hand we think that it falls far short of what is desirable in terms of prevention.
madam president, madam commissioner, in the rush to put a roof on it, and what a roof, the house risks seeing its foundations forgotten. prevention is of central importance in disaster prevention, the european commission recognises this in its proposal, even refers to the european parliament resolution of september 2010, for which i was rapporteur, on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, but it is incapable, like this report, of carrying out all the recommendations contained therein. i would stress the need to create an appropriate framework for the financing of disaster prevention, the correction of risk-inducing situations in areas such as forestry, the protection and defence of the coastline, the recovery and protection of watersheds, the protection and rehabilitation of inhabited areas in areas particularly vulnerable to certain types of disaster, among others, almost everything remains to be done in this field. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the european social fund.
mr president, i was saying that a little calm and respect for the opinions of others would do them no harm. let me just say a few words: in the last plenary session, we listened to and applauded malala, the young woman who has become a symbol of the struggle of women for the right to education. today, on human rights day, the european parliament has the opportunity to support women's right to sexual and reproductive health. my report, with respect to subsidiarity, recommends that the member states adopt good practice in this area. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by calling on you to reject the alternative resolutions in order to allow my report to be voted on.
i am sorry, mr president, that by a few votes, hypocrisy and obscurantism have prevailed, that hypocrisy and obscurantism have prevailed over the legitimate rights of women. you can shout that i won't shut up, don't bully me, don't bully me, i'm not afraid and i'm right. i regret that in 2013 the european parliament is taking a more conservative position than it did in 2002 when it adopted the van lancker report. i regret that the most extreme and fundamentalist movements have imposed themselves on the will of the members. when citizens ask for more europe, this is the answer the european parliament gives them. poor the european union. i ask, mr president, that as a result of the vote that has taken place, my name be removed from the resolution that has just been adopted. i am sure, i am sure that in 2014, in the next elections, the european voters will not fail to remember this shameful vote.
mr president, in democracy you win and you lose, and a true democrat accepts and is satisfied with the votes of the plenary when he is defeated, just as he is satisfied when he wins, and i do not accept or admit to mrs edite estrela that, because she lost an election, counting the votes of more than half the european parliamentarians, she insults us as hypocrites or whatever comes into her head. mrs edite estrela, mr president, is entitled to her opinion, as i am entitled to mine, and i do not insult mrs edite estrela because of her opinion, however radical it may be, nor will i allow her to insult me because i think differently from her. i conclude, mr president, by saying that with this last statement mrs edite estrela has shown herself to be a democrat in form and circumstance, not a democrat in substance, because, mr president, i conclude, a democrat in substance accepts the opinion of others. the words of mrs edite estrela are a disgrace to the member and should be a disgrace to the european socialists.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a first reading agreement proposing the creation of the justice programme 2014-2020 as one of the programmes to be adopted under the next multiannual financial framework. the main objectives of the programme are to facilitate and support judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, to support and promote judicial training with a view to promoting a common legal and judicial culture, and to facilitate effective access to justice for all. in conclusion, i believe that judicial training, judicial cooperation and access to justice are the cornerstones in the creation and development of an area of freedom, security and justice in the eu.
in writing. − the rights, equality and citizenship programme now includes the well-known daphne programme, the only european programme for preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women. in europe, 18 women are killed every day, 12 of them by their partners or other family members. more than one in ten have experienced sexual violence and 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence in childhood. to continue to combat this scourge, it was essential to make the prevention and combating of this type of violence a specific objective of the future programme and to retain the name daphne to identify projects related to this objective. adequate and balanced funding is also ensured. it is therefore a great victory for the european parliament to be able to continue with the new programme as a tool at the disposal of the non-governmental organisations that fight violence against children, young people and women every day. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. − the justice programme for the period 2014-2020, integrated into the next multiannual financial framework (mff), aims to create a european area of justice, supported by judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. this new programme succeeds and synthesises three existing programmes: civil justice (jciv), criminal justice (jpen) and drug information and prevention (pipd), and promotes greater rationalisation of costs and means and more effective approach to objectives. this new programme is based on three essential objectives, with which i tend to agree: to promote the effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union law in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, to facilitate access to justice and to prevent and reduce the demand for and supply of drugs. given the fundamental and strategic importance of judicial cooperation in a free and borderless area, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the commission proposal aims to create the justice programme 2014-2020. the general objective of the programme is to contribute to the establishment of a european area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. in order to achieve the overall objective, the programme should fulfil specific objectives, including the effective, comprehensive and consistent implementation of eu legislation in the fields of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the report covers a range of issues such as european added value - the rapporteurs consider that all members of the judiciary and judicial officials, when exercising their functions, should be aware that they are part of a european judicial system - and training issues, which are considered a key factor for the programme. our group has tabled amendments relating to the drugs approach, both in terms of health and crime prevention, respect for the principle of subsidiarity and the lack of judicial staff. our critical position on the european area of justice and on concepts such as a common european judicial culture or the replication of successful institutions is well known. we voted against it.
in writing. the stockholm programme, which emphasised that the development of an area of freedom, security and justice remains a priority for the european union. significant progress has been made in this area, but judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters is still insufficient. the aim of this proposal is to create a genuine area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. in pursuit of this general objective, the proposal seeks to promote the effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union law in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, to promote access to justice and to prevent and reduce the demand for, consumption of and supply of drugs. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the commission has put forward a proposal on the justice programme for the period 2014-2020, integrated into the next multiannual financial framework (mff), with the overall objective of creating a european area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. with a view to simplification and rationalisation, the justice programme succeeds three current programmes: civil justice (jciv), criminal justice (jpen) and drug information and prevention (pipd). i voted in favour of the merger of these programmes, which will allow a comprehensive approach to justice funding and will allow three specific objectives to be met: promoting the effective, comprehensive and coherent application of union law in the fields of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, facilitating access to justice and preventing and reducing the demand for and supply of drugs.
in writing. − the objective of this programme is to promote effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union law in the area of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. this programme, which replaces and merges into a single document three different related programmes in the fields of civil justice, criminal justice and drug prevention, is based on articles 81 (1) and (2), 82 and 84 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the commission proposal aims to create the justice programme 2014-2020, ensuring coherence and complementarity with the fundamental rights and citizenship instrument/programme, daphne iii, the anti-discrimination and diversity and gender equality sections of the programme for employment and social solidarity (progress) 2007-2013. the express objective of the programme is to contribute to the establishment of a european area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the programme provides for the financing of analysis activities, training activities, mutual learning tools, the implementation of eu legislation and policies. the financial envelope for the implementation of the justice programme for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020 shall be eur 472 million. the rapporteur wants to put more emphasis on the european added value by training the authorities to be familiar with the eu legal instruments. they also propose different indicators for evaluating the programme, stressing the importance of its geographical diversification. we do not agree with the path that has been taken, which will mean a withdrawal of powers from the member states at the level of the judiciary, imposing models and practices that may not be in keeping with the specific realities of each country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes merging three existing programmes - fundamental rights and citizenship, daphne iii and the anti-discrimination and diversity and gender equality sections of the employment and social solidarity programme - into a single rights and citizenship programme, which will allow for a more comprehensive approach and efficiency in the funding of the programme. the ep has increased (compared with the commission's original proposal) the objectives of the funds: the european union has also made a number of important contributions to the development of the european union. it also extended the indicators to ensure better control. the commission must also ensure continuity and predictability for beneficiaries, as well as equitable geographical distribution and assistance to member states where implementation is very low. in implementing the programme, the european commission also has to take into account the international human rights indices of the member states.
in writing. − the rights, equality and citizenship programme now includes the well-known daphne programme, the only european programme for preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women. in europe, 18 women are killed every day, 12 of them by their partners or other family members. more than one in ten have experienced sexual violence and 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence in childhood. to continue to combat this scourge, it was essential to make the prevention and combating of this type of violence a specific objective of the future programme and to retain the name daphne to identify projects related to this objective. adequate and balanced funding is also ensured. it is therefore a great victory for the european parliament to be able to continue with the new programme as a tool at the disposal of the non-governmental organisations that fight violence against children, young people and women every day. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. − the rights and citizenship programme 2014-2020 aims to achieve the objectives of the stockholm programme by promoting and protecting the rights of citizens, as conferred by the european treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. this new programme will integrate three existing programmes: fundamental rights and citizenship, daphne iii and, in part, progress. it will be a streamlining of existing programmes that will allow for greater flexibility in decision-making regarding the distribution of funds and promote the rights associated with european citizenship, the principles of non-discrimination, the right to the protection of personal data, the rights of the child and the rights deriving from union consumer protection legislation.
in writing. - the regulation establishes the rights, equality and citizenship programme for the next seven years, with a set of objectives, such as respect for non-discrimination, prevention, combating racism and xenophobia, combating violence against children, young people and women, promoting and defending the rights of people with disabilities, promoting equality between women and men, as well as a further set of good intentions with which we obviously agree. in fact, these objectives are daily disregarded and called into question by eu policies. that is a sad contradiction. in an opinion we drew up, which was adopted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, we argued that the commission and the council should consider the issue of gender equality as a specific objective in the rights and citizenship programme, and also maintain the daphne programme as an independent sub-heading of this programme. the general recognition of the daphne programme's results is proof that it should continue to contribute to the objectives it sets itself with adequate funding and a well-defined percentage allocated, which should not be confused with other objectives, notably those relating to the internal market.
in writing. − the stockholm programme emphasised that the development of an area of freedom, security and justice remains a priority for the european union. this is intended to create an area in which the rights of individuals, as enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, are promoted and protected. in particular, this programme should promote the rights conferred by european citizenship, the principles of non-discrimination and equality between men and women, the right to the protection of personal data, the rights of the child, the rights deriving from union consumer protection legislation and the freedom to conduct a business in the internal market. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the creation of the rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020. the european parliament shall approve this programme and help to define european added value proposals, indicating that these include small-scale actions and national actions, assessed against criteria such as their contribution to the uniform and coherent application of union law and to a broad public awareness of the rights conferred by it, their potential to develop mutual trust between member states and to improve cross-border cooperation, their transnational impact, their contribution to the development and dissemination of good practices or their potential to contribute to the development of minimum standards, the creation of tools and the identification of practical solutions to address cross-border or union-wide challenges. i have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i agree with the foregoing.
in writing. − the european union is founded on values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. values which are common to all the member states and which are part of what i believe to be the european identity. this report establishes the rights, equality and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020. an initiative to create a space where equality and the rights of persons are promoted and defended, as enshrined in the treaty on european union, the treaty establishing the european union, the charter and the international human rights conventions to which the union is a party. it is a programme that aims to develop activities to prevent and combat racism, xenophobia, homophobia and any other form of intolerance. it also advocates for the rights of people with disabilities, promotes gender equality and combats violence and abuse. to this end, various activities such as workshops, seminars, conferences, training and communication campaigns are suggested.
in writing. − the regulation establishes the rights, equality and citizenship programme for the next seven years, with a set of objectives, such as respect for non-discrimination, the prevention and combating of racism and xenophobia, the fight against violence against children, young people and women, as well as the promotion and defence of the rights of persons with disabilities and the promotion of equality between women and men. however, these objectives are daily disregarded and called into question by the right-wing policies that the eu itself promotes, based on the neoliberal logic of the market and capitalist concentration that foster their opposite practice. it is a sad contradiction. we have advocated in an opinion that we have drawn up, which was adopted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality, that the commission and the council should consider the issue of gender equality as a specific objective in the rights and citizenship programme, and that the daphne programme should be maintained as an independent sub-heading of this programme. the general recognition of the daphne programme's results is proof that it should continue to contribute to the objectives it sets itself with adequate funding and a well-defined percentage allocated, which should not be confused with other objectives, notably those relating to the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in september 2013 russia announced a ban on imports of moldovan wines and spirits in retaliation for its efforts to expand ties with the eu, and the eu would therefore like to compensate for at least part of the losses by extending trade preferences for moldovan wine.
in writing. − this project establishes autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, eliminating all customs duties on industrial products and improving access of agricultural products to the eu market. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 55/2008, the autonomous trade preferences apply until 31 december 2015. the application of that regulation after 1 january 2013 depends on the successful completion of certain procedures in the world trade organisation. the european union has launched these procedures and the timeframe for their completion is currently unknown. therefore, until the wto procedures are concluded, it is necessary to ensure the continuity of trade flows of the republic of moldova until 31 december 2015. in addition, it is necessary to ensure legal certainty for economic operators that they will be able to continue to import under the regulation governing autonomous trade preferences. it is therefore necessary to provide that the autonomous trade preferences are applied without interruption until the date set by council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 for their expiry. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. − the need to maintain the uninterrupted character of the autonomous trade preferences justifies the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 55/2008. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the union's macro-financial assistance to moldova is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the union's macro-financial assistance. the trade facilitations enjoyed by moldova should facilitate its development and contribute to the prosperity of its population, as well as to the approximation of european union standards with regard to democracy, human rights, respect for the rule of law and freedom of trade. i hope that the maintenance of autonomous trade preferences will contribute to this rapprochement and allow the maintenance of trade flows between this country and the european union.
in writing. the report by mr winkler deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. this regulation establishes autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, eliminating all customs duties on industrial products and improving access for agricultural products to the eu market. at this stage, it is necessary to ensure the continuity of trade flows from the republic of moldova until 31 december 2015. i consider that the autonomous trade preferences should be applied without interruption until the date set by council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 for their expiry.
in writing. − due to the difficulties in its wine exports to some of its traditional markets, which are jeopardising its economic recovery and the reform process vigorously pursued by the moldovan government, the european commission proposes to fully and without delay liberalize the import of wine from moldova into the eu by amending council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 by removing wine from table 1 of annex i to the latter. the eu concluded negotiations with moldova in june 2013 on a new association agreement, which includes the creation of a new deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) and provides for the full liberalisation of bilateral trade in wine. the rapporteur proposes that the commission should propose that the autonomous trade preferences be applied without interruption until the date set by council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 for their expiry. it is the logic of the eu's expansion and its influence eastwards, using the familiar and usual mechanisms - free trade being one of them. the proposal does not exempt european producers from damage, particularly those countries such as portugal where such production is predominant. we voted against it.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 55/2008 establishes autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova by eliminating all customs duties on industrial products and improving access for agricultural products to the eu market. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 55/2008, the autonomous trade preferences apply until 31 december 2015.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the areas of the environment, transport, energy, transport and energy. these autonomous trade preferences shall apply until 31 december 2015. the application of that regulation after 1 january 2013 depends on the successful completion of certain procedures in the world trade organisation. the european union has launched these procedures and the timeframe for their completion is currently unknown. therefore, until the wto procedures are concluded, it is necessary to ensure the continuity of trade flows of the republic of moldova until 31 december 2015. in addition, it is necessary to ensure legal certainty for economic operators that they will be able to continue to import under the regulation governing autonomous trade preferences. it is therefore necessary to provide that the autonomous trade preferences are applied without interruption until the date fixed for their expiry. for these reasons and in these terms, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the following report establishes autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, eliminating customs duties on industrial products, and improves access for agricultural products to the eu market. it is therefore proposed that wine imports from moldova into the european area be fully liberalized under the autonomous trade preferences scheme. it is necessary to ensure that union assistance in the wine sector through the liberalisation of imports takes effect as soon as possible in order to ensure the continuity of trade flows from moldova.
in writing. − due to the difficulties in its wine exports to some of its traditional markets, which are jeopardising its economic recovery and the reform process vigorously pursued by the moldovan government, the european commission proposes to fully and without delay liberalize the import of wine from moldova into the eu. the eu concluded negotiations with moldova on a new association agreement in june 2013, and this agreement provides for the full liberalisation of bilateral trade in wine. the rapporteur amends the commission proposal, in particular to provide that the autonomous trade preferences are applied without interruption until the date set by council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 for their expiry. it is the logic of the eu's expansion and its influence eastwards, using the familiar and usual mechanisms - free trade being one of them. the proposal does not exempt european producers from damage, particularly those countries such as portugal where such production is predominant. we voted against it.
mr president, by approving the fisheries agreement between morocco and the european union, this parliament has given the green light to an agreement which is illegal under international law, which violates the decision of the international court of justice, which violates several united nations resolutions and which may even be more original than the agreement itself concluded by the united states, which excluded the waters of western sahara, as the european union should have done. morocco is trading with resources that are not its own, including the waters of western sahara that are also not its own, and therefore legitimizes the occupation of these territories. we could have supported democracy, human rights and freedom with this vote, but what parliament did was take the side of the oppressor and therefore support the opposite of what i have just said, we must decide once and for all whether the european union and the european institutions think it is worth fighting for human rights or not, because with this vote what it has shown is that they are very hypocritical.
in writing. - i vote in favour. i believe it is important to move forward with the establishment of fishing opportunities in order to make the activity resulting from them mutually beneficial and based on economic, social and environmental sustainability. however, from a political point of view, all the legal and human rights and property issues of the people of western sahara must be assessed.
in writing. − since december 2011, when parliament rejected the eu-morocco fisheries agreement, the european fleet has had to leave moroccan waters, with a high loss that has been accumulating until today. in view of the reasons for parliament's negative vote in 2011 and the guidelines of the resolution adopted on the same day, the agreement presented here today responds to the objections of the past by following the recommendations of that time. that is what is objectively unquestionable. this protocol is compatible with international law, more environmentally sustainable, more economically viable than the previous one. it provides for an increase in fishing opportunities of up to 33%, based on scientific advice, an improvement in the cost-benefit ratio between the financial contribution and fishing opportunities, a change in fishing areas and the operational conditions of the fleet, and the monitoring by the european union of the use of sectoral support and its socioeconomic impact on a geographical basis, ensuring that part of the financial compensation is actually applied in western sahara. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement: protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution, by including a clause on respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights, and by ensuring that any failure by morocco to comply with this protocol could lead to its suspension. the agreement also provides for legal obligations to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources on the basis of enhanced scientific cooperation. the approval of the protocol will allow the resumption of fisheries relations with morocco, while ensuring that the geographical impact of the social and economic benefits arising from it is monitored, since part of the financial compensation will be used to benefit the entire population, including that of the territory of the sahara under moroccan administration.
in writing. - i fully agree with and support my colleague, mrs carmen fraga estévez, whom i would like to greet, as this new protocol contains very important improvements compared to its predecessor and responds to the concerns of the european parliament and of countries such as portugal. the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco will authorize 14 portuguese vessels to fish in moroccan waters. this protocol could allow the resumption of fisheries relations with morocco on a new basis, much more in line with the eu's objectives, both from the economic and financial point of view and from the point of view of social and environmental sustainability.
in writing. the report by mrs carmen fraga estévez deals with the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. the european commission has been opening negotiations for the signing of a new protocol. the fishing categories in this agreement are the same as in the previous protocol and, although the number of vessels is reduced from 137 to 126, the fishing opportunities are increased by 33%. the fishing zones have been modified to better adapt to the needs of the fleets and to allow certain requirements imposed by morocco to be met. i therefore consider that this protocol is compatible with international law, is environmentally sustainable and at the same time more cost-effective than the previous one.
in writing. - it is regrettable that, after a fair rejection of the renewal of this agreement in 2011, given its illegality in the light of international law, the european commission insists on the inclusion of the waters of western sahara in the agreement - a fact which is at the basis of this illegality - and that parliament assesses and accepts it. we have nothing against a fisheries agreement with morocco. a fair, sustainable and mutually beneficial agreement. but an agreement which, in addition to moroccan waters, includes resources over which morocco has no sovereignty in the light of international law is an illegal agreement, which we cannot accept. the commission has also been asked to provide the necessary information to the authorities in the member states, and this is all the more so since the legitimate representatives of the sarawak population have not been given the opportunity to be heard, as would be required by international law and the successive un resolutions on the natural resources of non-self-governing territories. the comparison with the situation in east timor during the illegal occupation by indonesia is inevitable. at that time the portuguese people were rightly indignant and mobilized against the agreements made by indonesia with third countries for the exploitation of oil from the timor sea. some of those who were against these agreements then are now hypocritically approving the conclusion of this fisheries agreement, trying to forget the obvious parallels.
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament's ratification of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement because i believe that the agreement, as negotiated, is contrary to international law. the agreement includes a clause to ensure that the geographical spread of the social and economic benefits of eu sectoral support is monitored, meaning that part of the financial compensation will go to the benefit of the entire population, including that of the sar. it's an improvement over the previous version, which was rejected in 2011. however, this clause does not guarantee that morocco will implement the agreement in accordance with the wishes and interests of the sarawi people. moreover, the commission is unlikely to press morocco to do so, given the general nature of the clause. to be in line with international law, the agreement would have to provide expressly how much it will benefit the indigenous people of western sahara, affirming morocco as the de facto administrative authority of the territory of western sahara. on the other hand, representatives of the sarawi people should have been consulted during the negotiations, which did not happen. i therefore voted against ratifying this agreement on grounds of principle, consistency and conscience.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new eu-morocco fisheries agreement because it is clearly more advantageous for portugal. the agreement now approved provides for better technical conditions for our fishermen. under the previous protocol, the eu paid a lot of money to fish in areas with few fish resources and therefore little economic return. portugal has always had a great tradition of fishing in morocco, particularly in the catching of white swordfish. portugal still has 14 licences under the new protocol and still has 1 555 tonnes of pelagic fish, which means that portugal now has more fish to fish. in this way, the interests of eu fishermen operating in this area are safeguarded.
in writing. − following the european parliament's refusal last december to approve the one-year extension of the fisheries protocol with morocco, which expired on 27 february 2012, the european commission has started negotiations for the signing of a new protocol. this new protocol provides for fishing opportunities and technical measures. the total cost of the protocol per year is around eur 40 billion, and the rapporteur considered that the new protocol contains several improvements over the various aspects that would lead to the rejection of the previous text. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of approving the protocol.
in writing. - it is regrettable that, after the rejection of the renewal of this agreement in 2011, in view of its illegality in the light of international law, the european commission insists on the inclusion of the waters of western sahara in the agreement - a fact which is at the basis of this illegality - and that parliament assesses and accepts it. we have nothing against a fisheries agreement with morocco. as long as it's a fair deal, that respects principles of sustainability and mutual benefit. but we cannot accept an agreement which, in addition to moroccan waters, includes resources over which morocco has no sovereignty under international law. this is an illegal arrangement. the fact is that the legitimate representatives of the sarawak population have not been guaranteed the hearing which would be required in accordance with international law and successive un resolutions on the natural resources of non-self-governing territories. we cannot help drawing a parallel with the situation in east timor during the illegal occupation by indonesia. at that time the portuguese people were rightly indignant and mobilized against the agreements made by indonesia with third countries for the exploitation of oil from the timor sea. some of those who were against these agreements then are now hypocritically approving the conclusion of this fisheries agreement, trying to forget the obvious parallels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the objective of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced occupational diseases and injuries and to strengthen the protection of the general public and the environment. these include, in particular, the establishment of a chemical assessment system, the obtaining of information by employers from their suppliers, the provision of information to workers and the need for appropriate preventive measures, and the establishment of protection programmes for workers. this convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole. in order to promote health and safety at work in the member states, they should ratify the convention quickly.
in writing. − the international labour organisation's international conventions are an important contribution to the european union's efforts to promote decent work for all, both inside and outside the union, and to protect and improve workers' health and safety. the chemicals convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general. i voted in favour of this report, which supports the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify convention no 170 as soon as possible in the interests of the union.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i support the ratification of convention no 170 on chemicals, which is an important instrument for the protection of workers and the environment.
in writing. the report by mrs jutta steinruck deals with the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the international labour organisation convention on the safety of chemicals at work, 1990 (convention no 170) convention no 170 was adopted at the 77th session of the international labour conference on 25 june 1990 and entered into force on 4 november 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced workplace illness and injury and to enhance the protection of the general public and the environment. i think it's important to promote the decent work agenda. labour standards are a key element of the concept of decent work. i consider the ratification of the ilo conventions by the member states to be an important signal of the union's political commitment to improving labour standards worldwide.
in writing. the report proposes ratification of the 1990 international labour organisation convention on the safety of chemicals at work. the convention was adopted at the 77th session of the international labour conference in 1990 and entered into force in 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced workplace illness and injury and to further enhance the protection of the general public and the environment. the convention defends access to information on chemicals used at work as a need and a right of workers. it calls for an assessment of all chemicals to determine their hazard and for basic guidelines to ensure the safe use of chemicals. we voted in favour.
in writing. - convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general. in order to ensure health and safety at work, member states should ratify convention no 170 as soon as possible. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in which parliament supports the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify, in the interests of the union, those parts of convention no 170 on chemicals which fall within the union's competence. convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general. the rapporteur calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in all member states.
in writing. the international labour organisation adopted in 1990 the convention on the safety of chemicals at work, which has proved essential not only for the protection of workers but also for the environment and society in general. the following recommendation authorises member states to ratify, in the interest of the union, those parts of this convention which relate to chemicals within the competence of the union. i voted in favour of this recommendation because we must guarantee health and safety at work throughout the european area.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. convention no 170 was adopted at the 77th session of the international labour conference on 25 june 1990 and entered into force on 4 november 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce chemical-induced workplace illness and injury and to enhance the protection of the general public and the environment. convention no 170 states that the protection of workers from the harmful effects of chemicals also contributes to the protection of the general public and the environment and that access to information on chemicals used in the workplace is necessary. it states that all chemicals must be assured that they are assessed for hazard and that employers must obtain information from suppliers on the chemicals used at work so that they can put in place effective programmes to protect workers from the hazards. we voted for it, of course.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposed parliament's consent to the conclusion of the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, which will complement the united nations convention against transnational organized crime, which is a global instrument in the fight against organized crime and the trafficking of firearms.
in writing. − arms trafficking is one of the illicit activities that most threatens the internal security of the eu, and it is therefore important that the union continues to combat this form of organised crime effectively. the promotion of ratification of international conventions should be part of this strategy. the firearms protocol is the first global instrument to combat transnational organised crime and the illicit trade in firearms. it establishes a very useful multilateral framework and a set of minimum standards relevant to all participating states, aimed at preventing, combating and eradicating the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. the conclusion of this protocol is therefore consistent with the eu's current policies against transnational crime, which aim to step up the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms, including export control and traceability and the reduction of the proliferation and spread of small arms worldwide. given that there are currently still four member states which have not signed or even acceded to the protocol, i support its ratification by the eu, which will make the provisions of the protocol legally binding for all member states, within the framework of european competences.
in writing. − the ratification by the european union of the protocol on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition will make the provisions of the protocol legally binding on all member states within the limits of european competence. the importance of this protocol for preventing the illicit trafficking of firearms, which benefits and largely finances criminal and terrorist groups, is noted, and i am voting in favour of its ratification.
in writing. the report by mrs véronique mathieu houillon deals with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the additional protocol to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. this convention is the first global instrument to combat transnational organised crime and the illicit trade in firearms. i consider the exchange of information provided for in article 12 of the protocol to be very important in this respect, since crime knows no borders and all forms of trafficking, such as arms trafficking, can only be effectively combated if everyone cooperates. it is essential to exchange information on criminal groups, methods, routes and means used, illicit firearms, authorised manufacturers, dealers, importers and exporters. i am voting in favour of this protocol because i believe that it will help to improve the safety of european citizens without, however, harming the legal users of firearms.
in writing. the report gives parliament's consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. the protocol applies to the prevention of illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, and to the investigation and prosecution of offences defined in accordance with article 5 on criminalisation, which requires each country to adopt such legislative and other measures as it deems necessary to make criminal offences, including the manufacture, trafficking, falsification or erasure, removal or alteration of marks on firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, where such offences are transnational in nature and involve an organised criminal group. the protocol shall not apply to transactions between states or to transfers by states where its application would prejudice the right of a state to act in the interests of national security in accordance with the charter of the united nations and with respect for its sovereignty in this matter. this document also deals with loss and seizure, firearms marking and prevention, deactivation, licensing, security measures and information. we voted in favour.
in writing. − this protocol allows for better prevention of and fight against illicit trafficking in firearms by better controlling weapons through their marking and import and export authorisations, and by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between states parties. i believe that this protocol can enhance the security of european citizens without, however, harming the legal users of firearms.
in writing. − the united nations international convention against transnational organized crime, adopted on 15 november 2000, is the first global instrument to combat transnational organized crime and the illicit trade in firearms. three protocols clarify the convention by providing for specific measures to combat specific crimes. the protocols cover, respectively, trafficking in human beings, trafficking in migrants and the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms. the protocol on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms was signed on 16 january 2002 but its conclusion was postponed pending the adaptation of european legislation. i voted in favour of this report which proposes the adoption of this protocol, since the protocol allows for better prevention and combating of illicit trafficking in firearms, better control of weapons through their marking and import and export authorizations, and strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between the states parties.
in writing. − this document proposes the ratification of a protocol to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. this will enhance the safety of european citizens without harming legal users of firearms. the document contains a number of measures, such as the penalisation of the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, and the forgery and suppression of firearms' markings. this marking of firearms at the time of manufacture, import and transfer between countries should be ensured by member states so that the manufacturer, the country and the year of import can be identified. cooperation between member states is strongly encouraged through a single point of contact to strengthen the capacity to prevent, detect and investigate such illegal activities. the rapporteur also stresses that the illicit trafficking of firearms and their components and ammunition benefits criminal groups and terrorists, as it provides a form of extra income, thus increasing their destructive potential.
in writing. the report gives parliament's consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime on the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. it also applies to the investigation and prosecution of offences defined in accordance with article 5, which provides that each country shall adopt such legislative and other measures as it deems necessary to establish criminal offences, including the manufacture, trafficking in, counterfeiting or erasing, removing or altering marks on firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, where such offences are transnational in nature and involve an organised criminal group. the protocol shall not apply to transactions between states or to transfers by states. this document also deals with loss and seizure, firearms marking and prevention, deactivation, licensing, security measures and information. we are of course in favour of increased cooperation in the exchange of information and the development of strategies against criminal groups involved in the illicit trafficking of arms, although this increased cooperation should not be reflected in increased surveillance of individuals and groups not involved in these criminal networks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it was only a technical procedure which takes account of the accession of bulgaria and romania and the enlargement of the eu and the customs union which followed. under wto rules, the eu is obliged to compensate wto members for the increase in the duty if significant losses are incurred, and the products concerned were mainly garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits.
in writing. - the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union has entailed renegotiations within the world trade organisation to compensate the parties for the enlargement of the european customs union. the agreement with the people's republic of china has this aim of promoting trade rebalancing and deserves the support of parliament. the fact that it was voted on in committee confirms its relatively uncontroversial character.
in writing. the report by mrs véronique helmut scholz deals with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the european union. with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. the european union therefore had to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating power on the lists of any of the acceding members in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment that satisfies all parties and counterbalances the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. i therefore agree with this agreement with the people's republic of china, as it is entitled to have its previous trade rights re-established, which were slightly degraded by the enlargement of the customs union when romania and bulgaria joined the eu.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. thus, under wto rules, the eu had to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating power on the lists of any of the acceding members with the aim of reaching an agreement on a mutually satisfactory compensatory adjustment to compensate for the increased consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. this is the case in china. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with countries entitled to compensation. negotiations with the people's republic of china resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, which was initialled on 31 may 2012. the rapporteur accepts the agreement and considers that this compensation agreement is an example of the eu's intention to respect the rules of the multilateral trading system, with the wto at its core. our assessment of this report and our vote on it are inseparable from our critical position on the wto, its role and its consequences. we therefore refuse to submit to their logic.
in writing. - with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. the products concerned by the eu-china compensation agreement are mainly garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits. the amendment restores the people's republic of china to its trade rights, which were slightly degraded by the enlargement of the customs union when romania and bulgaria joined the eu.
in writing. - with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, in accordance with wto rules (article xxvi:6 of gatt 1994), the european union had to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating power on the lists of any of the acceding members in order to agree on a compensatory adjustment that would satisfy all parties and counterbalance the increase in the consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. i voted in favour of the agreement with the people's republic of china. the people's republic of china is entitled to have its previous trade rights, which were slightly degraded due to the enlargement of the customs union upon the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu, re-established. this compensation agreement can be seen as another example of the eu's intention to respect the rules of the multilateral trading system, with the wto at its core. in fact, it is a fact that eu enlargement has been generally positive for wto members.
in writing. the report seeks parliament's approval for the compensatory adjustment, with the enlargement to bulgaria and romania, as a way of counteracting the increase in consolidated duties and the resulting losses, as set out in the world trade organisation (wto) rules. the products concerned by the compensation agreement are garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits. a normal procedure when the customs union is enlarged, in the context of the wto, which i voted for.
in writing. - following the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has enlarged its customs union. thus, under wto rules, the eu had to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating power on the lists of any of the acceding members with the aim of reaching an agreement on a mutually satisfactory compensatory adjustment to compensate for the increased consolidated duties and the consequent significant losses. this is the case in china. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the countries entitled to compensation, and the negotiations with the people's republic of china resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, which was initialled on 31 may 2012. the rapporteur accepts the agreement and considers that this compensation agreement is an example of the eu's intention to respect the rules of the multilateral trading system, with the wto at its core. our assessment of this report and our vote on it are inseparable from our critical position on the wto, its role and its consequences. we therefore refuse to submit to their logic.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of hormones in meat products. in may 2009, after a series of negotiations, the us and the eu agreed to a memorandum of understanding that aimed to resolve this long-standing trade dispute. as the 2009 memorandum of understanding expired on 1 august 2013 and as the parties are still not able to reach a final solution for hormone-treated meat, a revised memorandum of understanding was signed on 21 october 2013. the new mou provides for the extension of the transition phase until august 2015, giving more time to find a final solution to the wto dispute. member states were also informed of the decision of the usa to bring its legislation into line with international standards for bse. this means that eu beef will once again be allowed on us markets, which have been closed to european producers since 1998.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the import of beef from bovine animals not treated with certain growth hormones and the increase in the duties applied by the united states to certain products from the european union, because the extension of the proposed mou will allow more time to negotiate a solution that will allow a final settlement to the beef dispute with hormones that will ensure compliance with european food safety standards.
in writing. − the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding in may 2009 seeking a final settlement of the so-called hormone beef dispute, concerning the importation of meat from animals not treated with certain growth hormones and the increase in us tariffs on certain products from the european communities. the final settlement of the dispute, as envisaged in the phase iii mou, was not possible and the mou expired on 1 august 2013. it is now proposed to extend phase ii for a further two years, without modifying the tariff quota, allowing for the negotiation of a final settlement of the dispute by august 2015, which i agree with.
in writing. the report by mr vital moreira refers to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a revised memorandum of understanding with the united states of america concerning the importation of beef from bovine animals not treated with certain growth hormones and the increase in the duties applied by the united states to certain products from the european union. the european union and the united states of america have long been involved in the so-called hormone beef dispute. a mutually acceptable solution allowed the gradual lifting of retaliatory sanctions imposed on certain european agricultural products by the united states in exchange for the opening of an autonomous tariff quota. the parties have failed to reach a permanent agreement to end the dispute in the world trade organization (wto) framework provided for in phase iii of the memorandum of understanding, and the memorandum of understanding expired on 1 august 2013, although the mutual obligations remain in force until 1 february 2014. i therefore consider that, in these circumstances, the proposed extension and revision of the memorandum provides legal certainty for economic operators and allows more time to reach a final negotiated solution.
in writing. − the report proposes to extend an eu-us memorandum of understanding (mou) on the import of high-quality beef from the us into the eu, which expires if not extended before february 2014. as there is no agreement between the us and the eu to enter phase 3 of the emu, the parties may agree to extend phase 2 until august 2015, while discussions on phase 3 continue. in phase 2, the eu opened a tariff quota of over 45 000 tonnes of high-quality beef and the us lifted all trade sanctions on eu products resulting from the hormones dispute. this opening up of the european market to hormone-free beef is mainly due to the economic and commercial pressure and threat from the united states. in addition to our concerns about the quality and food safety of us meat, given the known intensive and very intensive production methods used, we also have reservations about the consequences of opening this quota for the production of countries such as portugal.
in writing. the european union and the united states of america have long been involved in a dispute over the eu ban on the import of hormone-treated beef. nevertheless, the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on 13 may 2009, paving the way for a final settlement of the so-called hormone beef dispute. however, a final agreement between the parties has not yet been reached. the extension and revision of the mou will provide legal certainty to economic operators and allow more time to reach a final negotiated solution. the extension of the memorandum will further enhance good faith, leading to further transatlantic economic integration and fostering confidence during the ongoing negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip).
in writing. the eu and the us have signed a memorandum of understanding on the future of the eu and the us, which is an international agreement and its amendment is therefore subject to parliament's approval. the proposal to revise the memorandum of understanding consists in extending the phase ii for a further two years without modifying the tariff quota, allowing for the negotiation of a definitive solution to the dispute by august 2015. the additional amendments to the mou clarify the management of licences on a first come, first served basis, expressly prohibit wto litigation during phase ii and provide for the end of the wto procedure when it reaches phase iii. in the event of no action, the eu could suspend the tariff quota for high-quality beef and the us would have the right to re-impose sanctions on eu products worth $116.8 million annually. although this wto dispute is not itself an integral part of the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), the end of the existing measures could have a negative impact on the ongoing negotiations, which is why i voted in favour of this extension for another two years in order to find a final solution.
in writing. the european union and the united states of america have long been involved in a dispute over the eu ban on the import of hormone-treated beef. the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding on 13 may 2009 paving the way for a final settlement of the dispute. this proposal for a revision of the memorandum of understanding consists in extending the phase ii which ended in august 2013 and which aims at suspending the sanctions and extending the tariff quota for high quality beef to 45 000 tonnes on a most-favoured-nation basis for a further two years without modifying the tariff quota, allowing for the negotiation of a final settlement of the dispute by august 2015. the additional amendments expressly prohibit wto litigation during phase ii and provide for the wto procedure to end when phase iii is reached. i therefore voted in favour of the adoption of the memorandum.
in writing. − the report proposes to extend an eu-us memorandum of understanding (mou) on the import of high-quality beef from the us into the eu, which expires if not extended before february 2014. in the absence of an agreement between the us and the eu to enter phase 3 of the me, the parties may agree to extend phase 2 until august 2015 while discussions continue. in phase 2, the eu opened a tariff quota of more than 45 000 tonnes of high-quality beef. in addition to our concerns about the quality and food safety of us meat, given the known intensive and very intensive production methods used, we also have reservations about the consequences of opening this quota for the production of countries such as portugal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because it represents a lot of jobs for both parties and focuses on the social dimension. the maintenance of employment in the european union and in côte d'ivoire is another argument in favour of this agreement, especially in times of crisis and in a situation where côte d'ivoire is making numerous efforts to regain political stability. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the fishing industry.
in writing. the eu-côte d'ivoire fisheries partnership agreement sets out the fishing opportunities between the two areas and the resulting financial compensation, allowing for closer relations between the eu and the country. the agreement allows fishing parameters to be set within the most appropriate sustainability standards. the overall financial contribution from the union is a total of eur 680 000 per year, which i fully agree with.
in writing. - the report by mr jean louis cottigny refers to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire (2013-2018). relations between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire in the fisheries sector have existed since 1990. the existing agreement is old but important to both parties. i believe that this agreement represents a great deal of jobs for both sides and i would stress its social dimension. at the same time, i consider it important to maintain the activity of the union fleet.
in writing. − the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution under the eu-ivory coast fisheries agreement has been established for the next five years until june 2018. this agreement provides for fishing opportunities for tuna, purse seiners and surface longliners (28 freezer tuna purse seiners and 10 french and spanish surface longliners). the financial contribution paid by the european union amounts to eur 680,000 per year, broken down as follows: eur 422,500 per year for access to the territorial waters of côte d'ivoire (for a reference tonnage of 6,500 tonnes per year and an amount of eur 257,500 per year for sectoral support, intended for the development of the ivorian fisheries sector). the logic and general direction of the other fisheries agreements is therefore followed. in this respect, the general considerations we have made in relation to all the other agreements regarding the need for greater effectiveness of sectoral support and greater appropriation of this support by third countries (practically all of them developing countries) are valid. we agree with the increase in payments for access to waters and the decrease in fishing opportunities (in line with the available scientific advice on the evolution of stocks).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new eu-côte d'ivoire fisheries agreement because it represents a huge added value for the maintenance of the activity of the european union fleet. the new agreement represents a benefit of 170% for every euro invested. if we consider that a tonne of tuna is resold, on average, at a price ten times higher than the price of the catch, it is easy to see that our fisheries and processing industry is taking enormous advantage of this approval. this new agreement also represents a great deal of jobs and wealth creation for both sides, which, in the current crisis, cannot be ignored either.
in writing. − this report aims at establishing the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and côte d'ivoire. the eu-côte d'ivoire fisheries agreements are important tuna agreements in this equatorial atlantic region and the first eu-côte d'ivoire fisheries agreement dates back to 1990. this protocol covers a period of five years and includes fishing opportunities for 38 vessels, divided into two distinct fleet categories, namely 28 freezer tuna seiners and 10 surface longliners. the eu's annual financial contribution is eur 680 000, divided between eur 422 500 per year for access to fishery resources in the côte d'ivoire eez (reference tonnage of 6500 tonnes per year) and eur 257 500 per year to support the development of the sectoral fisheries policy in côte d'ivoire. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report, considering that this protocol is fairly balanced and beneficial for both parties, allowing the continuation of the activity of the european tuna fleet in ivorian waters, opening up prospects for the national surface longliner fleet and strengthening the eu's strategic presence in this region of the west african coast.
in writing. - this new protocol sets out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire. its main objective is to strengthen cooperation between the two parties. this will create a new framework favourable to the interests of both parties, in which it will be possible to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and a reasonable exploitation of fisheries resources. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the adoption of the protocol.
in writing. − the agreement setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution under the eu-ivory coast fisheries agreement was established for the next five years, until june 2018, providing for fishing opportunities for tuna, purse seiners and surface longliners fleets (28 freezer tuna purse seiners and 10 french and spanish surface longliners). the financial contribution paid by the european union amounts to eur 680,000 per year, broken down as follows: eur 422,500 per year for access to the territorial waters of côte d'ivoire (for a reference tonnage of 6,500 tonnes per year and an amount of eur 257,500 per year for sectoral support, intended for the development of the ivorian fisheries sector). the logic and general direction of the other fisheries agreements is therefore followed. the general considerations we have made in relation to all the other agreements, namely the need for greater effectiveness of sectoral support and for greater appropriation of this support by third countries (almost all of which are developing countries), are therefore valid. we agree with the increase in payments for access to waters and the decrease in fishing opportunities (in line with the available scientific advice on the evolution of stocks).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the canary islands are one of the outermost regions of the european union, where special measures can be provided for, in accordance with article 349 of the tfeu, in order to overcome the economic disadvantages of these regions, such as my own region, the azores, which suffer from their geographical situation. due to the exceptional geographical location of the canary islands, the supply of certain fishery products for domestic use may entail considerable additional costs. and in order to lessen the impact of the geographical disadvantage of the canary islands, the spanish government has requested the extension of existing measures, such as the reduction of import duties, in combination with other specific measures for the outermost regions.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural, social and economic situation of the outermost regions is characterised by remoteness, insularity, small size, adverse topography and climate and their economic dependence on a small number of products, which seriously hampers their development. the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands as regards the sources of supply of certain fishery products essential for domestic consumption implies additional expenditure for this sector. one of the means designed, in accordance with the treaty, to alleviate this natural handicap is the temporary suspension of customs duties on imports of certain agri-food products from third countries under community tariff quotas of an appropriate volume. i therefore agree that this exceptional regime should be extended until 2020.
in writing. the report by mr gabriel mato adrover refers to the proposal for a council regulation on the opening and administration of autonomous tariff quotas for the union for the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands from 2014 to 2020. as the canary islands are an outermost region, the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural, social and economic situation of these regions is characterised by remoteness, insularity, small size, adverse topography and climate and their economic dependence on a limited number of products, which seriously hampers their development. for this reason, i consider that we should extend the continuation of the duty-free tariff quotas applicable to imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period from 2014 to 2020.
in writing. the canary islands are one of the outermost regions (ors) of the european union, along with madeira and the azores. the treaty provides for special measures to be applied to these regions in view of the permanent constraints on them, in particular geographical isolation, which constitute an economic disadvantage compared with other regions. since 1991, the eu has suspended, in whole or in part, common customs tariff duties on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the use of the 'cross-border' tariff quotas, which are intended to cover the whole of the community, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the use of the 'cross-border' tariff quotas. it therefore advocates the continuation of the same duty-free tariff quotas applicable to imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands, this time for the period 2014-2020. we supported this decision, which must of course be viewed in a non-discriminatory way in the light of the needs and specificities of the other ors.
in writing. the canary islands are an outermost region. the treaty on the functioning of the european union therefore provides for the recognition of certain factors which constitute a clear disadvantage and which seriously impede its development. the remoteness, insularity, small size, topography and adverse climate are factors that make the outermost regions economically dependent on the outside world. it is therefore necessary to take specific measures to define the conditions for the application of the treaties to those regions, without compromising the integrity and coherence of the union legal order, in particular the internal market and common policies. the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands as regards the sources of supply of certain fishery products essential for domestic consumption implies additional expenditure for this sector. in the light of the consultation of interested parties and the formal request submitted by the spanish authorities, i have given my favourable opinion to the extension of the continuation of the same duty-free tariff quotas for imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period 2014 to 2020.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to allow the continuation of the duty-free tariff quotas of the european union applicable to imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands during the period 2014-2020. the treaty on the functioning of the european union recognises that the structural, social and economic situation of the outermost regions is characterised by insularity, remoteness, small size and economic dependence on a limited number of products, which severely hamper their potential for development. the geographical situation of the canary islands in relation to the sources of supply of certain fishery products for domestic consumption entails additional costs, which justifies the mitigation of this disadvantage by temporary suspension of customs duties on imports of these fishery products under community tariff quotas. in the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013, these tariff quotas were used to a very significant extent, justifying their continuation during the period from 2014 to 2020. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the extension of this measure is an important instrument to alleviate the competitive disadvantages of the outermost region of the canary islands in the import of certain fishery products.
in writing. the spanish authorities have requested an extension of the current regime of suspension of the application of the common customs tariff for certain products, as this will allow local economic operators in the canary islands to import a certain number of raw materials, parts and components and, consequently, contribute to the economic and social development of this outermost region. as an outermost region, the canary islands have, under article 349 tfeu, the possibility of having derogating regimes from the rules of the treaty in order to contribute to overcoming the disadvantages resulting from their status. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the treaty provides for special measures to be applied to the outermost regions, given the permanent constraints on them, in particular geographical isolation, which constitute economic disadvantages compared with other regions. since 1991, the eu has suspended, in whole or in part, common customs tariff duties on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands. the rapporteur believes that, in support of the canary islands' fisheries sector, the duty-free tariff quotas covered by this proposal should be seen as complementary to other measures. it therefore advocates the continuation of the same duty-free tariff quotas applicable to imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands, this time for the period 2014-2020. we supported this decision, which must of course be viewed in a non-discriminatory way in the light of the needs and specificities of the other ors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives the green light to the mobilisation of the egf in finland. the application concerned 4 509 redundancies at nokia between 1 august and 20 november 2012, of which 3719 redundancies will benefit from personalised measures supported by egf funding.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 9.81 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for finland to support the 3719 workers covered by the egf co-financed measures out of the 4509 workers made redundant by nokia.
in writing. − the spontaneous reputation which the finnish company still enjoys with consumers worldwide illustrates the extent to which it has been a leader in its sector. that is why it was somewhat surprising to find that it was also one of the companies in difficulty and that it had reduced its staff. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund has already been frequent in situations such as those experienced by nokia, and seems justified in this case. as on other occasions, i can only regret the difficult situation of the company's workers and hope that the prompt availability of the fund will help to alleviate their difficulties and help to increase their chances of returning to the labour market.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 9 810 000 from the egf for finland. the measures co-financed by the egf concern a total of 4 509 redundancies at nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of its suppliers and subcontractors, with 3 719 workers affected. because what is at stake is improving the support provided to workers in difficulty and avoiding the misuse of public money, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the report considers that finland is entitled to a financial contribution under the european globalisation adjustment fund for the application submitted following the dismissal of 4,509 nokia workers, 3,719 of whom are covered by the co-financed measures, with eur 9,810,000 being mobilised. this instrument makes it possible to grant financial support to workers who are made redundant, which is necessary but not always sufficient in the event of the loss of a job. but this problem does not solve the underlying issue, nor can it hide it. the destruction of jobs and unemployment are inherent in the capitalist system and its structural crisis. it is this crisis that leads every day to the closure and relocation of businesses. the solutions must be translated into active employment policies and any policy which leads to increased unemployment and precariousness in labour relations must be rejected (liberalisation, privatisation, etc.). the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to finland, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of an application egf/2013/001 fi/nokia, following 4 509 redundancies at nokia, of which 3 719 workers were covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 august 2012 to 30 november 2012.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 16 october 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of its suppliers and subcontractors as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 9 810 000 from the egf in favour of finland, based on 4 509 redundancies in nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of their suppliers and subcontractors, with 3 719 workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 august 2012 to 30 november 2012. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree to the request to mobilise eur 9.810.000,00 for the redundancies in nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of their subcontractors. i believe that the european commission should step up support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, helping them to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − the report considers that finland is entitled to a financial contribution under the european globalisation adjustment fund for the application submitted following the dismissal of 4,509 nokia workers, 3,719 of whom are covered by the co-financed measures, with eur 9 810 000 being mobilised. this instrument allows for the granting of financial support to dismissed workers - support which is necessary but not always sufficient in the event of the loss of a job. but this measure does not solve the underlying problem and cannot hide it: the destruction of jobs. the solutions must be translated into active employment policies and any policy which leads to increased unemployment and precariousness in labour relations must be rejected (liberalisation, privatisation, etc.). with this new vacancy, nokia brings to more than 6,000 the number of workers affected by the company's decision to relocate its production, design and development units to asia, which are part of an unacceptable overall plan to eliminate 17,000 jobs at nokia corporation by the end of 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives the green light to the mobilisation of the egf in germany. the request concerned 959 redundancies in the solar sector between 15 november 2012 and 15 march 2013, of which 875 redundancies will benefit from personalised measures supported by egf funding.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 2 305 357 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for germany to support the 875 workers covered by the egf co-financed measures of the 959 workers made redundant by first solar manufacturing gmbh.
in writing. - according to the report, the fact that a company the size of first solar reduced its activity meant a 4% increase in the percentage of the number of unemployed in the land of brandenburg, germany. this circumstance indicates the extent to which this company was relevant in the regional context and how the closure, relocation or reduction of the activity of companies of this magnitude has serious, direct and indirect impacts on the life of the communities in which they were located. first solar is also reportedly facing direct competition from the chinese market for solar power production and does not appear to have been able to reverse the declining trend of its business as a result of globalisation. apart from the mobilisation of the fund, which is justified, there will be a need to reflect deeply, at european level, on the way in which the business fabric of the union has been affected by globalisation and to consider ways in which the worsening of the situation can be prevented and the revival of economic activity promoted.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. this is the tenth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 305 357 from the egf for germany. it concerns 959 redundancies at first solar manufacturing gmbh, 875 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf. because what is at stake is improving the support provided to workers in difficulty and avoiding the misuse of public money, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − germany has submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following 959 redundancies at first solar manufacturing, 875 workers having been affected by egf co-financed measures during the reference period from 15 november 2012 to 15 march 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures in question. the brutal effects of the economic and social crisis in europe, to which free trade agreements and the liberalization of world trade have contributed in a large scale, are some of the causes of the closures and relocations of companies in several member states, including germany itself, and give rise to the argument of the justification presented: major structural changes in world trade patterns (...). while we support this mobilization because it is important to support these workers, we reaffirm our critical position with regard to this fund, because we believe that it would have been more important to take measures to prevent unemployment in order to avoid it. changing policies and guidelines. changing the system.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to germany, which submitted an application egf/2013/003 de/first solar for a financial contribution from the egf, following 959 redundancies at first solar manufacturing gmbh, 875 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 15 november 2012 to 15 march 2013.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 16 october 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by first solar manufacturing gmbh as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the tenth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 305 357 from the egf for germany, based on 959 redundancies at first solar manufacturing gmbh, 875 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 15 november 2012 to 15 march 2013. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. following the 959 redundancies at first solar manufacturing gmbh, where 875 workers are covered by measures co-financed by the egf, i am in favour of mobilising eur 2 305 357.00. i would also point out that the layoffs at first solar will immediately cause a 4 percentage point increase in the unemployment rate unless new jobs are created quickly. the workers laid off by first solar are mostly skilled, but they have never worked in the fields in which they are skilled. this is why it is important to adopt vocational retraining measures to enable workers to adapt their initial qualifications to the new needs of the labour market.
in writing. − germany has submitted an application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) following 959 redundancies at first solar manufacturing, 875 workers being covered by egf co-financed measures the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the measures in question, but that the commission has not received any information on the actual costs of the measures. the brutal effects of the economic and social crisis in europe, to which free trade agreements and the liberalization of world trade have contributed in a large scale, are some of the causes of the closures and relocations of companies in several member states, including germany itself, and give rise to the argument of the justification presented: major structural changes in world trade patterns (...). while we support this mobilization because it is important to support these workers, we reaffirm our critical position with regard to this fund, because we believe that it would have been more important to take measures to prevent unemployment in order to avoid it. changing policies and guidelines. changing the system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it gives the green light to the mobilisation of the egf in denmark. the request concerns 611 redundancies in the wind turbine manufacturing sector between 18 september and 18 december 2012. this is the third case (since 2010) involving vestas and the fourth case in the wind turbine sector (also since 2010), all of these redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by egf funding.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the european union should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 6 364 643 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark to support the 611 workers made redundant by dk/vestas and covered by the measures co-financed by the egf.
in writing. the vestas group is one of the largest, if not the largest, economic group dedicated to the production of wind turbines. however, its dominance is declining both because of increased competition and the decline of its sector. the issue at hand is the dismissal of more than 600 workers who are now directly and personally suffering the worst impact of globalisation. in the face of yet another case affecting yet another leading company in its field of activity, it seems reasonable to wonder whether the european union and the member states are responding most adequately to these highly problematic situations at individual level (which should always be borne in mind) and also at collective level.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the fund may not exceed a maximum amount of eur 500 million. this is the eighth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 364 643 from the egf for denmark. it refers to 611 redundancies in the vestas group, 611 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf. because what is at stake is improving the support provided to workers in difficulty and avoiding the misuse of public money, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − denmark applied to the european globalisation adjustment fund for a financial contribution following 611 redundancies in the vestas group, with all workers covered by the co-financed measures during the period from 18 september 2012 to 18 december 2012 amounting to eur 6 364 643. the vestas group's redundancies are the result, we are told, of profound structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, related to the significant reduction of the eu's market share with total capacity from 66% in 2006 to 27,5% in 2012, due to stagnating demand for wind turbines in europe, stemming from the entry into the european market of chinese wind turbine manufacturers with more competitive prices. in other words, this is the result of the policies of market liberalisation and free trade agreements that the eu so much promotes, always in the interests not of workers and peoples but of the big transnational corporations, aiming at increasing their profits. in 2009-2010, vestas group carried out large-scale redundancies, increasing the number of workers affected to 2000 and constituting a huge problem for the affected populations, especially at a time of a rapid increase in unemployment.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to denmark, which applied for a financial contribution from the egf in the form of egf/2012/011 dk/vestas following 611 redundancies in the vestas group, 611 workers being covered by the measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 18 september 2012 to 18 december 2012.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 16 october 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the vestas group as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the eighth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 364 643 from the egf for denmark, based on 611 redundancies in the vestas group, with 611 workers covered by the egf co-financed measures during the reference period from 18 september 2012 to 18 december 2012. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the 611 redundancies at the wind turbine manufacturer vestas group are the result of profound structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, and are also related to stagnating demand for wind turbines in europe, market development in asia and penetration of the european market by chinese wind turbine manufacturers with more competitive prices. in this respect, i am in favour of mobilising eur 6 364 643.00 to help redundant workers acquire new vocational skills to enable them to return quickly to the labour market.
in writing. − denmark applied for the european globalisation adjustment fund following 611 redundancies at the vestas group, with all workers covered by the co-financed measures, amounting to eur 6 364 643. the redundancies in the vestas group are the result, we are told, of profound structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, related to the significant reduction in the eu market share due to stagnating demand for wind turbines in europe, stemming from the entry into the european market of chinese wind turbine manufacturers with more competitive prices. this is the result of the policies of market liberalisation and free trade agreements that the eu so much promotes, always in the interests not of workers and peoples but of the big transnational corporations, aiming at increasing their profits. as early as 2009-2010, vestas group had carried out large-scale redundancies, increasing the number of workers affected to 2000 and constituting a huge problem for the affected populations, especially at a time of a rapid increase in unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the commission and the government of canada have finally reached political agreement on key elements for an economic and trade agreement, despite the controversy surrounding the human rights clause, which is a standard clause in all agreements with third countries, and the eu has and must act consistently when concluding all agreements, and there should be no preferential treatment for any partner.
in writing. - as i said earlier, canada and the european union share a set of values which make them not only trade partners but natural allies in the global geostrategic framework. in fact, on both sides of the atlantic there is the same civilization which would gain a great deal by further strengthening the relations between its peoples. it would be useless to talk at length about canada's historical links with europe and the contribution its citizens made to the liberation of the european continent in the two world wars that ravaged it. i can only welcome the possibility of concluding such a partnership agreement and appeal to both sides to commit themselves to the speed of its negotiation and the quality of its outcome, which will benefit us all.
in writing. − the report recognises the complementary nature of the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement (spa) and the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). the establishment of these agreements with canada aims to open up markets between the two parties, combining these agreements with the north american free trade agreement (nafta) to form a large transatlantic market involving the eu, canada and the usa. these agreements, which have not yet been concluded, are an aspiration of the monopolies on both sides of the atlantic, a desperate attempt by big capital to get out of the crisis in which it is immersed, by accelerating the process of concentration and centralisation of capital and the strengthening of these blocs to face the increasing competition at world level. the workers and the people will be the greatest victims of agreements which will further destroy the sovereign instruments of defence and management of the economies of the weaker countries, such as portugal. this agreement will strengthen the dominance of the large monopolies, which will have a freer hand in forcing redundancies and lowering wages, creating conditions of competition which will be intolerable for smes, small and mediumsized farmers and family farming.
in writing. − since 2011, the eu and canada have been negotiating comprehensive economic and trade agreements, such as the ceta (comprehensive economic and trade agreement), whose negotiations have now been concluded, and the epa (strategic partnership agreement), which is still under negotiation. the report, while highlighting the complementarity of the two agreements, highlights and reinforces the democratic values and principles governing cooperation between the eu and canada, draws attention to the necessary measures to prevent abuse of the suspension mechanism by either party, and encourages the signing of both agreements. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which contains the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and canada and in which parliament calls on the commission to make the necessary progress to conclude the agreement swiftly, insisting that all eu agreements with third countries should adopt appropriate safeguards to ensure that there is no abuse of the mechanism for suspending the rights agreed by either party and insisting that such conditionalities be part of the strategic partnership agreement with canada to ensure the consistency of the eu's common approach in this regard. for these reasons, and because this agreement can significantly benefit portugal and the azores, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - this own-initiative report contains the european parliament's recommendations on the two agreements the union is negotiating with canada, namely the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the strategic partnership agreement. parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. furthermore, it should be quite explicit that these clauses are not to be used arbitrarily by either party. i agree with this view and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the eu/canada strategic partnership agreement and the comprehensive economic and trade agreement are complementary in nature. the establishment of these agreements with canada is aimed at opening up markets, combining these agreements with the north american free trade agreement to form a large transatlantic market involving the eu/canada/usa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the workers and the people will be the greatest victims of agreements which will further destroy the sovereign instruments of defence and management of the economies of countries, particularly countries like portugal which are already facing a situation of profound economic decline. this agreement will strengthen the dominance of the large monopolies, which will have the most free hand to force redundancies and lower wages, creating competitive situations which will be incompatible with smes, small and mediumsized farmers and family farming. national production will continue to decline, debts will increase, the process of destroying public services will continue and the pressure for their privatization will continue. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential, in the context of the financial crisis, to avoid the interoperability of the global financial system, which has several flaws in the risk management process, being hindered, in particular, by a contagion effect. i also believe that it is essential that the security and stability of the financial system be increased within the eu.
in writing. - the economic crisis we have been through has made it clear that contagion between market players needs to be countered, mainly by preventive action. this own-initiative report focuses specifically on csds and csds as critical market infrastructures that require, as a matter of priority, robust recovery and resolution rules accompanied by efficient risk management. while other non-bank institutions such as insurance companies, asset managers and payment systems also need strengthened rules, the international debate on these is still developing. as crisis management has transferred significant risks from individual actors to centralised hubs, the risks of these central entities also present increased instability, which now needs to be properly addressed. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures advocated are part of the final construction of the stability of the european financial system and important for the protection of the assets of the clients of the institutions under this jurisdiction.
in writing. - the economic crisis we have been through has made it clear that contagion between market players needs to be countered, mainly by preventive action. this own-initiative report focuses specifically on csds and csds as critical market infrastructures that require, as a matter of priority, robust recovery and resolution rules accompanied by efficient risk management. while other non-bank institutions such as insurance companies, asset managers and payment systems also need strengthened rules, the international debate on these is still developing. as crisis management has transferred significant risks from individual actors to centralised hubs, the risks of these central entities also present increased instability, which now needs to be properly addressed. i am voting in favour of this report, considering that the measures advocated in it are positive, as part of the final construction of the stability of the european financial system and for the protection of the assets of the clients of the entities under this jurisdiction.
in writing. − over the past four years, the european union has been paying particular attention to the financial sector in order to make it more robust and less susceptible to systemic crises. thus, efforts have been made to achieve a level of legislative harmonisation with regard to the solvency requirements of credit institutions, the rules on the supervision and supervisory bodies of credit institutions, and the rules on the recovery and resolution of the banking sector. however, the financial system is not limited to credit institutions, and the european parliament has therefore sought to give attention to non-bank intuitions which also operate in the market. i therefore support the rapporteur in calling for minimum governance and risk management requirements for these institutions.
in writing. - the economic crisis we have been through has made it clear that contagion between market players needs to be countered, mainly by preventive action. this own-initiative report focuses specifically on csds and csds as critical market infrastructures that require, as a matter of priority, robust recovery and resolution rules accompanied by efficient risk management. while other non-bank institutions such as insurance companies, asset managers and payment systems also need strengthened rules, the international debate on these is still developing. as crisis management has transferred significant risks from individual actors to centralised hubs, the risks of these central entities also present increased instability, which now needs to be properly addressed. i am voting in favour of this report, considering that the measures advocated in it are positive, as part of the final construction of the stability of the european financial system and for the protection of the assets of the clients of the entities under this jurisdiction.
in writing. − this report sets out a framework for the recovery and resolution of institutions such as central securities depositories (csds), insurance companies, asset management companies and central counterparties (ccps). ccps and csds are essentially mutual funds that provide cover for losses resulting from the trading of derivative products. what is needed is a ban on the marketing of these products and the subsequent dismantling of these mutual funds. the marketing of derived products is partly responsible for the price increases in agricultural products and other basic goods, which have resulted in the ruin of many small and mediumsized farmers and the starvation of millions of people. among these financial products are also the so-called swaps - derivative and high-risk financial products subject to quotation - which are generating huge losses for several public companies in portugal. as regards insurance companies, although it is important to ensure their recovery and resolution, avoiding serious consequences for their beneficiaries, the only way to ensure that they are not used in speculative processes and that they effectively fulfil their social function is to promote their nationalisation, placing the entire financial sector at the service of economic growth and economic and social development.
in writing. − the financial crisis has shown the degree of interoperability of the global financial system when failures in the risk management process of any major market player have the potential to spill over through a contagion effect. as part of the overall effects of making the financial system more resilient, all market participants need to have a better understanding of how their business will operate or be orderly reduced in stressed circumstances. non-banking institutions also have to be prepared to suffer the consequences of financial crises and become resilient enough to deal with them safely. nevertheless, an appropriate framework for the recovery and resolution of such institutions is necessary.
in writing. − the financial crisis has shown the degree of interoperability of the global financial system when failures in the risk management process of any major market player have the potential to spill over through a contagion effect. as part of the overall effects of making the financial system more resilient, all market participants need to have a better understanding of how their business will operate or be orderly reduced in stressed circumstances. i voted in favour of the proposals in this report for good governance and strong risk management for the good of the system as a whole.
in writing. − this report advocates the establishment of a framework for the recovery and resolution of institutions such as central securities depositories, insurance companies, asset management companies and central counterparties. ccps and csds are essentially mutual funds that provide cover for losses resulting from the trading of derivative products. we believe that the only valid solution is to ban its marketing and allow it to be dismantled. the marketing of derived products is partly responsible for price increases, particularly of agricultural products and other essential goods, causing the ruin of small/medium farmers and hunger for millions of people. among these financial products are also the so-called swap products - derivative and high-risk financial products subject to quotation - which are generating huge losses for public companies in portugal. as regards insurance companies, it is important to ensure their recovery and resolution in order to avoid serious consequences for their beneficiaries, and the only way to ensure that they are not used in speculative processes and for the benefit of their shareholders is to promote their definitive and urgent nationalisation, placing the entire financial sector at the service of economic growth and economic and social development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european economy, with the support of european policy, should concentrate on those areas which already offer considerable potential in terms of economic growth and innovation. i also believe that the space industry has considerable potential to generate economic growth, create jobs and thus also achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the european space industry, despite accounting for only 35,000 jobs, generates a consolidated annual turnover of over eur 6.5 billion. numerous services depend directly or indirectly on space-related technology, and it is also a key sector for economic growth and innovation, especially in the area of satellite communications. this is why this is an area with considerable potential for economic growth and innovation with the european galileo satellite navigation programme and the copernicus earth observation programme (gmes) as well as the development of satellite communications in general.
in writing. - this report deals with the subject of european space policy. one of the major concerns expressed here is that the eu is heavily dependent on the us space industry. the aim is therefore to develop a european policy which is independent of imports. to this end, it is considered necessary to develop all space programmes, instruments and industry, such as the copernicus/gmes programme, alongside the creation of a genuine eu internal market for space products and services. we are aware of our reservations about the framework in which some of these mechanisms are being developed. the support of copernicus/gmes to eu external action services in terms of security services, in addition to preventing destabilising effects in third countries in crisis or emerging crisis, are provisions in the report that justify our reservations. we believe that space should be used only for peaceful purposes, for the benefit of all mankind, by deepening cooperation between member states, between them and other european countries with a relevant research heritage in this field, as well as at international level, in order to use the potential of space exploration in a peaceful way and for the advancement of humanity and knowledge.
in writing. − space represents a source of progress for europe which can be put to the service of a large number of objectives and policies, but europe's competitiveness in the field of space depends on new technical developments. in addition to competition from new emerging space powers such as india and china, the european space industry faces other challenges in relation to its international competitors, such as a lower budget. following the commission's guidance, this report suggests further initiatives to improve and make the eu's performance in this important sector more competitive.
in writing. − despite being a niche industry with just under 35 000 highly skilled employees, the space industry generates a consolidated annual turnover of over eur 6.5 billion. numerous services depend directly or indirectly on space-related technology. at the same time, the space sector is a driving force for economic growth and innovation. many non-space industry sectors benefit from the technological achievements of the space industry. i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a number of measures to exploit the potential for economic growth in the space sector in order to create jobs and thus also achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the european space industry faces enormous obstacles to its development. in addition to international competitiveness, with the emerging economies of china and india, europe is not developing its potential because: the budget available and military expenditure are very low and synergies between the civil and military components are almost non-existent. a technologically advanced and independent space industry, making use of existing projects such as galileo, copernicus and the communication system in general. this requires member states to strengthen cooperation between themselves, to implement appropriate legislation and to demonstrate commitment in this area by creating an environment conducive to private investment. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the benefits in this area are enormous.
in writing. − this report builds on the mandate given in article 189 of the treaty for the definition of a european space policy, defining the communication from the european commission that space policy is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy and that it should be geared towards achieving its objectives. one of the major concerns of this report is that the eu today is heavily dependent on the us space industry, and it is thus seeking to develop a european policy that is independent of imports. to this end, the eu considers it necessary to develop all its programmes, instruments and industries in this area, as exemplified by the copernicus/gmes programme. we have serious concerns about the economic framework surrounding the space industry and the uses of such instruments, particularly when they are considered for military purposes. in fact, the description of copernicus/gmes support to eu external action services with regard to security services clearly states that it is to prevent destabilising effects in third countries in crisis or emerging crisis. in our view, space should be used only for peaceful purposes, for the benefit of all mankind, by deepening cooperation between member states as well as at international level. we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the full development of cloud computing to be of strategic importance for the completion of the digital single market. the cloud strategy addresses many aspects that affect the need for greater convergence and harmonisation in order to remove all existing barriers, for example: broadband deployment, consumer protection, intellectual property rights, data protection, product-specific regulation and payment transactions. i also believe that the development of the cloud in europe has extraordinary potential to become a powerful driver for the completion of the digital single market.
in writing. − the european commission estimates that cloud computing revenues could reach €148.8 billion and that 60% of total server load will be virtualised by 2014. due to the highly commercial nature of cloud systems, the future strategy should address a wide range of issues, from technological issues related to the development of cloud systems, to technical issues such as legal aspects related to data privacy and security, which pose major obstacles to the general acceptance of cloud infrastructures. the public sector, including the european commission itself, should take the lead, not only because of the productivity gains that can be achieved through easy access to the best performing applications and technologies at affordable costs, but also because, in addition, citizens could benefit from more efficient and innovative public services. the full development of cloud computing is of strategic importance for the completion of the digital single market and its development has extraordinary potential to become a powerful driver for the completion of the digital single market. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − cloud computing is the storage, processing and use of data on remote computers, accessed via the internet, giving users the possibility to control almost unlimited computing capacity, develop a large number of new services, while allowing substantial reductions in it costs. in addition to cost savings and substantial efficiency improvements across the economy, it also has a significant environmental impact, as it allows for more efficient use of equipment. it is a major technological advance with enormous potential, but it should be wary of the risks it entails, in particular due to the fragmentation of the digital single market, where there are different national legal frameworks, creating uncertainty in terms of applicable law, enormous complexity in terms of managing services and usage patterns, covering multiple jurisdictions, as well as a problem in terms of trust and security, with regard to the protection of personal data, contracts, consumer protection or criminal law. in order to reduce the risks as well as the obstacles to the deployment of cloud computing services in the eu, we need greater convergence/harmonisation, with the adoption of general, clear and rigorous measures, as well as the urgent completion of the reform of the legislation on data protection.
in writing. − cloud computing, a dynamic concept, has only recently entered the lives of citizens and businesses and is already taking up a significant space, making it essential and urgent to ensure that its use and its desired generalization do not in any way compromise intellectual property, consumer rights, security or privacy. the benefits of cloud storage are clear, reducing costs for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly those in the outermost or remote areas, reducing barriers to market entry and enabling the creation of new services. i am convinced that cloud computing, which has not yet been fully exploited, represents a window of opportunity for the eu to invest in innovation and development, in the completion of the digital single market or in the dynamisation of electronic commerce. to this end, it must have legislation and instruments defining the rights and obligations of citizens, businesses and public bodies using these services, removing the barriers resulting from legal fragmentation between states. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider cloud computing to be a valuable tool for job creation and for responding to the economic and financial crisis in the eu.
in writing. − the european commission estimates that cloud computing revenues could reach €148.8 billion and that 60% of total server load will be virtual (cloud) by 2014. the economic and commercial prospects of the cloud are therefore very promising and there is therefore a justification for investing in its development. this, together with the space industry sector on which we have already voted today, is an innovation sector with tremendous potential for development and for creating jobs and wealth, which cannot be wasted.
in writing. − this own-initiative report welcomes the commission's position to exploit cloud computing in europe to the full, with the development of a coherent approach to cloud computing services, but considers that a legislative instrument would have been more effective in achieving the objectives. cloud computing aims to provide security and reliability commensurate with the increased risks of concentrating data and information in the hands of a small number of operators. it is also proposed to harmonise member states' rules and legislation to eliminate jurisdictional fragmentation and ensure the digital single market and promote common leadership in the public sector through a european cloud partnership, considering that there will be productivity gains through easy access to applications and technologies with better performance and low costs, and that citizens could benefit from more efficient and innovative public services, in particular in health, education and transport services. cloud computing represents a positive technological development, which must however ensure effective data protection and use of information away from the interests of the markets and private operators that have access to it. we have to be careful and we have reservations which justified our abstention.
in writing. - cloud computing, which until recently was just a trend, is now a reality that allows a range of tasks to be carried out without the need for a computer hard drive. this report highlights the full economic potential and efficiency benefits of this technology, but leaves a caveat as to the security and data protection risks that cloud computing may entail. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − companies around the world are increasingly realising the productivity gains they can make by easily accessing the best business applications and/or dramatically enhancing their infrastructure resources at affordable costs. in this regard, the european commission estimates that cloud revenues could reach €148.8 billion and that 60% of total server load will be virtualized by 2014. i voted in favour of this proposal as the development of cloud in europe has extraordinary potential to become a powerful driver for the completion of the digital single market.
in writing. − cloud computing has been developing significantly in recent years. the european union has always been at the forefront of key research and development issues and it is therefore logical that horizon 2020 should play a key role in stimulating research and technological development in the field of cloud computing. full portability, interoperability and open specifications need to be ensured. the commission should be able to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'public cloud service provider' and the definition of the concept of 'public cloud service provider'. there is also a need to establish secure and fair contractual conditions, which go beyond the simple differentiation between contracts between businesses and consumers and those between businesses only. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. further convergence is needed for an effective cloud computing strategy. and it should be underlined that this is a powerful step towards completing the digital single market.
in writing. − this own-initiative report welcomes the commission's position to exploit cloud computing in europe to the full, with the development of a coherent approach to cloud computing services, but considers that a legislative instrument would have been more effective in achieving the objectives. proponents of cloud computing say that it offers security and reliability commensurate with the increased risks of concentrating data and information in the hands of a small number of operators. it is also proposed to harmonise member states' rules and legislation to eliminate jurisdictional fragmentation and ensure the digital single market, as well as to promote such common leadership in the public sector through a european cloud partnership. it is considered that citizens could benefit from more efficient and innovative public services, in particular in the areas of health, education and transport. cloud computing represents a positive technological development that should be achieved with effective data protection and away from the interests of the markets and private operators that have access to it. we are concerned that this instrument may serve the purpose of concentrating capital in the monopolies in this sector and not be made freely available to users.
in writing. the european commission has published a communication on the implementation of the single market in the eu. the report highlights the contradictory aspects between the interests of the member states and those who want to see the communications sector in an open and liberalised market, far from the inconvenient national interests which are said to complicate the definition of common positions and make it more difficult to reach agreements. we were against the telecommunications package and its aims of liberalization and privatization of this sector of activity and we also rejected the bodies set up to defend this policy line, which has already shown its negative results. this body monitors the implementation of the regulatory framework for the completion of the internal telecommunications market, which serves the interests of the economic groups that dominate the sector, to the detriment of the defence of the rights and interests of end users. the report makes a number of recommendations for improving the functioning of the agency and its relations with national authorities. however, the real impact on the population and the member states of the implementation of the telecommunications package policies, in particular the impact of consumer prices, is not mentioned in this report.
in writing. − the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) was set up to contribute to the shaping of technical and political guidelines for the completion of the internal market, with the dual aim of providing regulators with the maximum possible independence and of making the implementation of the regulatory framework by regulators more consistent across the eu. i consider that berec has been functioning properly and fulfilling its tasks. however, the evaluation report of that body states that berec has the capacity to improve its performance. berec should improve particularly in its degree of independence, which is not yet sufficiently visible in view of its youth.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to set out parliament's views on the evaluation of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) and its office. the report indicates that overall berec is generally working well under current conditions. thanks to berec (and its predecessors), mutual trust between the national regulatory authorities (nras) has been progressively strengthened, contributing to the effective achievement of berec's objectives. however, this report sets out a more ambitious and internal market-oriented set of objectives for berec and its structure. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the following report assesses the performance of berec body of european regulators for electronic communications and its office. the feedback provided is positive, as berec has strengthened the trust between the national regulatory authorities, thus contributing to the achievement of the proposed objectives. however, there is still room for improvement, largely due to berec's recent history. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. it calls for greater responsibility on the part of the agency and for it to speak out on key issues, set priorities and advise the european institutions in order to harmonise the single market.
in writing. − the body of regulators for electronic communications was set up under the telecommunications package, the central objective of which is to shape the technical and political guidelines for the completion of the eu internal market. the report highlights the contradictory aspects between the interests of the member states and those who want to see the communications sector in an open and liberalised market, away from the inconvenient national interests which, they argue, complicate the definition of common positions, making it more difficult to reach agreements. we do not agree with the policy framework of the telecommunications package based on the liberalisation and privatisation of this sector of activity and we also reject the bodies set up to defend this policy line, which has already shown disastrous results in terms of the evolution of telecommunications prices, widening the gap and accessibility of these services to the populations. this body monitors the implementation of the regulatory framework for the completion of the internal telecommunications market. the report makes a number of recommendations for improving the functioning of the agency and its relations with national authorities. however, the real impact on the population and the member states of the implementation of the telecommunications package policies, in particular the impact on consumer prices, is not mentioned in this report.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the common fisheries policy is one of the european union's most important policies for the azores region. it should therefore address all the concerns of fishermen and facilitate a more regional approach, so that there is a specific view of regional challenges, in order to better promote the sustainability of fisheries resources, to promote the viability of coastal communities dependent on fisheries. the common fisheries policy, with its financial instruments, must now ensure that the necessary support is given not only to the fishermen but also to the scientific community if the objectives of the reform are to be achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy, because it includes proposals for a more sustainable exploitation of marine resources, including requirements to end overfishing, allow the rebuilding of stocks in line with the principle of maximum sustainable yield, prohibit discards and create marine protection areas and no-take zones in the eu.
in writing. − in the collective effort to adopt and implement a common fisheries policy that is truly at the service of consumers, businesses and the protection of marine resources, the european institutions, the member states, the scientific community and those interested in this activity cannot remain outside its debate and implementation. the european commission has repeatedly stated that the objectives of the common fisheries policy are to protect stocks against overfishing, to guarantee fishermen an income, to ensure that consumers and the processing industry are regularly supplied at reasonable prices, and to exploit living marine resources in a biologically, environmentally and economically sustainable way.
in writing. the report by mrs ulrike rodust refers to the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy (cfp), amending council regulations (ec) no 1954/2003 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulations (ec) no 2371/2002 and (ec) no 639/2004 and council decision (ec) no 2004/585. the reform will help to tackle problems such as the constant overfishing of the seas, since under the new text the council of the european union will be obliged to act in a sustainable way in the context of its annual decisions on catch quotas. as coastal and artisanal fisheries are environmentally friendly, important for gastronomy, tourism and the economy, we must give them special attention in the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the cfp contributes to the economic, environmental and social sustainability of this sector.
in writing. - this adoption decides on a key part of the future common fisheries policy (cfp). as expected, the negotiations with the council did not bring about any substantial changes to the proposal adopted by parliament at first reading. we are therefore justified in maintaining our position against this basic regulation. this is a reform driven by a legal and institutional framework which, as a result of the lisbon treaty, gave the eu exclusive (and not shared) competence in the management of living marine resources. this is a constraint on the implementation of local management, which is the best way of achieving the objectives of a fisheries policy: ensuring the supply of fish to the population, within a framework of good conservation of resources, and promoting employment and the economic and social development of coastal communities. an embarrassment that sooner or later will have to be removed. if the prevalence of highly centralised and remote management has been a problem over the past few decades, the conditions are not in place to change this situation. the multiannual plans - presented as one of the pillars of this reform and the banner of a supposed regionalization - persist entangled in an institutional conflict with no end in sight.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new common fisheries policy because i consider it a key document for the future sustainability of the eu's fisheries sector. the new cfp has greater environmental concerns, for example, it prohibits discards, since almost 20% of what was caught was thrown overboard. countries should promote sustainable fishing by providing incentives to vessels using selective fishing gear or fishing methods with a reduced impact on the environment. the new cfp now has long-term plans drawn up by the ec - multiannual plans, which set out rules to protect fish stocks, catch limits, with the sole objective of achieving a maximum sustainable yield by 2015 and in exceptional cases by 2020. each member state now has more money available to collect data on scientific knowledge, to know more about each species, size and breeding. in view of the average age of portuguese vessels, around 26 years, the increase now planned in support for the modernisation of small vessels is very important. the cfp also places a strong focus on aquaculture as a way of compensating for the increase in fish consumption and the decline in fish stocks.
in writing. - this reform of the common fisheries policy will finally make it possible to tackle the most important problems facing the common fisheries policy, namely overfishing. all stocks should be managed in future in accordance with the principle of maximum sustainable yield. parliament has also made an important demand in this area, namely that the principle of maximum sustainable income should become a binding principle applicable to all subsequent decisions. this includes future multiannual plans as well as autonomous council decisions on total allowable catches. the council of the european union will thus be obliged to act in a sustainable manner in the context of its annual decisions on catch quotas. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - as expected, the negotiations with the council did not bring about any substantial changes to the proposal adopted by parliament at first reading. we are therefore justified in maintaining our position against this basic regulation. this reform is determined by a legal and institutional framework which, as a result of the lisbon treaty, has given the eu exclusive (and not shared) competence in the management of living marine resources, preventing the implementation of a proximity management - which is the best way to achieve those that should be the objectives of a fisheries policy: ensuring the supply of fish to the populations, in a framework of good conservation of resources, promotion of employment and economic and social development of coastal communities. an embarrassment that sooner or later will have to be removed. the multiannual plans - presented as one of the pillars of this reform and the banner of a supposed regionalization - remain entangled in an institutional conflict with no end in sight. this decision is a key part of the future common fisheries policy (cfp).
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal, stressing that it is important to ensure equal treatment and fair competition with our operators in trade with third countries. i stress the need for the outermost regions to have a new regional advisory council, which will help to promote an ecosystem approach which takes account of the sensitive nature of our specificities and the more regional approach which the common organization of the markets requires.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, because it includes proposals for more sustainable and selective fishing, avoiding unwanted catches and developing a transparent labelling system that includes information on the sustainability of products.
in writing. - as i have said before, fisheries are an essential element for the life of many populations and fish consumption is increasingly necessary for a healthy diet by consumers. the interinstitutional agreement reached enhances transparency in labelling as regards the origin of products and the type of equipment used in their capture. i hope that the amendments introduced will make a real contribution to the consumer's better knowledge of the origin and catch conditions of the fish he consumes, and thus enable him to have more information at the time of purchase.
in writing. - as we said during the first reading vote, the current common market organisation (cmo) for fisheries - one of the pillars of the common fisheries policy, which has existed since 1970 - is far from guaranteeing the stability of fisheries markets and fair incomes for producers. in this context, a thorough and ambitious reform of the cmo was needed, strengthening public intervention and market regulation instruments with a view to guaranteeing the sector's income, the stability of the markets, improving the marketing of fishery products and increasing their added value by raising the prices at first sale of fish. none of this was done. worse, the current cmos have been weakened further, dismantling some of the (few) remaining regulatory instruments. the aim is to achieve greater liberalization and market orientation. in the current context of the sector, this path could prove disastrous for numerous segments of the fleet, especially for small-scale fishing segments. the negotiations with the council have not produced any good results, and nothing has changed substantially. we therefore maintain our position against this reform.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal is to ensure sustainable fishing for deep-sea species, reduce unwanted by-catches, reduce the impact on fragile deep-sea habitats and increase the number of biological data on declining species. the text also provides for the phasing out of bottom trawls and gillnets used in directed fishing for deep-sea species. fishermen should be given sufficient time to adapt to the new requirements in order to minimise the negative consequences for the fleet involved in this fishing activity. vessels wishing to change gear should benefit from financial support from the european fisheries fund, provided that the new gear reduces the impact of fishing on non-commercial species and that the national operational programme allows for a contribution to such measures. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - after a long period of negotiations, agreement was reached on the text of a common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. the compromise reached includes a clarification of the mandatory information to be given to consumers and a reform of the role of producer organisations, which will have fewer administrative mechanisms for intervening in markets. the focus is now on their own marketing strategies expressed through their production and plans. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the current common market organisation (cmo) for fisheries - one of the pillars of the common fisheries policy, which has existed since 1970 - is far from guaranteeing the stability of fisheries markets and fair incomes for producers. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the fishing agreement with morocco. that's not the way it went. worse, the current cmos have been weakened further, dismantling some of the (few) remaining regulatory instruments. the aim is to achieve greater liberalization and market orientation. in the current context of the sector this path could prove disastrous for numerous segments of the fleet, especially for small-scale fishing segments. we therefore maintain our position against this reform.
in writing. - i vote in favour. this report promotes a type of fisheries that should be fully operational when fishermen and decision-makers are equipped with all the data relating to ecosystems, especially those relating to the most vulnerable marine environments. fortunately, the azores have the academic and human capacity, and it is therefore important to support the bodies that can help in this task, as i have already argued during the debate on the future new european fisheries fund. this work should be done with the involvement of fisheries professionals and in coherence with the remaining data collection and monitoring and control work already defined under the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. the resolution in the plenary contains a possible compromise on the capture of deep-sea species in the north-east atlantic. like all compromises, this one may have fallen short of both sides' initial positions but the fact that they were able to reach an agreement demonstrates not only their capacity for dialogue but the seriousness with which they approached the problem. i believe that maximalist positions of doing nothing differently or simply prohibiting deep-sea fishing would not contribute to a solution of the problem which would seek to balance the interests at stake.
in writing. − stocks of deep-sea species normally evolve beyond continental shelves. they're usually associated with continental slopes or underwater mounds. the management of these fisheries requires special care, due to the great lack of detailed information on the resources and ecosystems (quite vulnerable) present. this shortfall must be addressed by providing more resources to public research institutions active in this field. this proposal for a regulation concerns deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic. in this respect, the eu has been (and is) adopting in its legislation the guidelines issued by both international fisheries management organisations (in this case, the neafc - north-east atlantic fisheries commission, whose aim is to promote the conservation and rational use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic), and the united nations itself and its agencies. the proposal goes further, with regard to certain gear (notably trawling), by requiring the end of trawling gear. we have supported the commitment made in the committee on fisheries, which, supported by the scientific advice of national experts, introduces important measures for the conservation of these resources and makes clear the need to strengthen the scientific basis for decision-making. this is a matter which we will continue to monitor with attention and care.
in writing. − with the implementation of the new cfp, there is a need to regulate the provision of information on the type of fishing gear in respect of products derived from wild fisheries. the new marketing and labelling rules aim to ensure that consumers are better informed about the quality and sustainability of the products they buy, for example about the fishing gear used and the area in which they were caught. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − deep-sea species are slowly multiplying species that are particularly vulnerable to overexploitation. since 2002, the european union has taken several measures to improve access to deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic, but these have so far not been sufficient to address the various problems, such as the vulnerability of the species and the difficulty of determining the sustainable level of fisheries, the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting and the unauthorised disclosure of financial information. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the management of deep-sea fisheries requires special care, due to the lack of detailed information on the resources and ecosystems (which are quite vulnerable) present. this shortcoming must be overcome by providing more resources to public research institutions active in this field. this proposal for a regulation concerns deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic. in this respect, the eu has been adopting in its legislation (which we consider to be a positive development) the guidelines issued both by the international fisheries management organisations (in this case, the neafc - north-east atlantic fisheries commission - whose objective is to promote the conservation and rational use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic), and by the united nations itself and its agencies. the proposal goes further in the case of certain gear (notably trawling) by requiring the end of trawling gear. on the basis of the scientific advice of national experts, we supported the commitment reached in the committee on fisheries, which introduces important measures for the conservation of these resources and supports the need to strengthen the scientific basis for decision-making.
in writing. - i have often said that one of the tests of the european union's cohesion is its ability to remain united in adversity and not just in diversity as it purports to do. a union civil protection mechanism could make this concept operational, give it tangible content, in times of particular need. true cohesion, concrete solidarity, shared responsibility, urgent aid, all that such a mechanism contains, is precisely what the union needs most at a time of need for all.
in writing. the report by mrs elisabetta gardini deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a union civil protection mechanism. this proposal provides for the creation of a new union civil protection mechanism to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states in the field of civil protection, with a view to improving the effectiveness of systems for preventing, preparing for and responding to all types of natural or man-made disasters, within and outside the territory of the union. the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters have increased considerably in recent years, and climate change is expected to trigger even more severe disasters in the future. i therefore advocate an integrated approach to disaster management which seeks to achieve a high level of protection against disasters by preventing or reducing their effects and promoting a culture of prevention. i believe that this mechanism will improve the union's readiness to respond to disasters and promote the speed and effectiveness of emergency response interventions in major disaster situations.
in writing. − civil protection has as its main function the prevention of collective risks inherent in situations of major accidents or disasters, the mitigation of their effects and the protection and rescue of persons and property in danger. this is one of those areas where the benefits, and even the need, of establishing cooperation schemes between different countries, starting with those that share borders, are evident. but there are aspects of this report, as well as of the original proposal from the european commission, from which we are distanced and which give rise to many reservations. examples include the reference to military means, with the possibility of militarizing the mechanism, and the approach to interventions in third countries (at the request of organizations other than the un... which ones then?). on the other hand, as we said during the debate, the approach to disaster prevention - where everything should start - is very inadequate. many of the recommendations in our report on disaster prevention, which was approved by the european parliament in september 2010, have not been followed up. finally, we must not forget that countries like portugal need support to strengthen their own civil protection, which has been seriously weakened by the budgetary asphyxiation to which it has been subjected.
in writing. − the civil protection mechanism is very important for giving quick and effective responses whenever europe is hit by all kinds of natural disasters. civil protection in the union is currently governed by two legal instruments: one is related to the community civil protection mechanism and the other is related to the related financial instrument covering the period 2013-2020. in the light of the new multiannual financial framework and the new treaty of lisbon, i think it is appropriate to make amendments to improve it. in addition to changes to the institutional and budgetary frameworks, the reality also requires changes to the current system. the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters.
in writing. − civil protection in the union is currently governed by two legal instruments: one is related to the community mechanism in the field of civil protection and the other is related to the related financial instrument covering the period 2013-2020. the preparation of the new multiannual financial framework and the entry into force of the lisbon treaty provide a good opportunity to amend the existing legal framework. the aim of european legislation is to support and complement the actions of the member states and to promote cooperation and coherence at union level, as the notion of civil protection varies from one state to another. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its assumptions and recognise the importance of coordination and support for the civil protection mechanism.
in writing. − the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a union civil protection mechanism is based on article 196 tfeu, the legal basis introduced by the lisbon treaty for civil protection. this is the first time that a legislative proposal in the area of civil cooperation has been agreed under the ordinary legislative procedure. the proposal aims to contribute to the eu 2020 objectives and to improve the safety of eu citizens in the face of natural and man-made disasters. the purpose of this decision is to consolidate into a single text the aspects relating to the operation and financing of the mechanism, while simplifying the procedures for assistance. in view of the various aspects mentioned, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − civil protection has as its main function the prevention of collective risks inherent in situations of catastrophes or major accidents, mitigating their effects, protecting and rescuing persons and property in danger. this is one of the areas where the benefits, and even the need, of establishing cooperation instruments between different countries, starting with those that share borders, are evident. but there are aspects of this report, as well as of the original proposal from the european commission, which we do not follow and which give rise to many reservations. examples include the reference to military means, with the possibility of militarizing the mechanism, and the approach to interventions in third countries (at the request of organisations other than the un not specifying which). as we said during the debate, the approach to disaster prevention is very inadequate - where everything should start. we would point out that many of the recommendations in our report on disaster prevention, adopted by the european parliament in september 2010, have not been properly implemented. finally, we stress that countries such as portugal need support to strengthen their own civil protection, which has been seriously weakened by the budgetary strangulation to which they have been subjected.
in writing. - mortgages are the most important long-term commitment made by households in the purchase of a home (about 70% in the eu), with a high economic importance in the eu (52.3% of gdp). despite their size, retail mortgage markets are fragmented. so legislating on this is crucial, considering that it was the crisis in the north american housing market, which spread to europe, that triggered the current crisis. the need to conclude responsible credit agreements and to eliminate bad practices is the point most emphasised by parliament. it is therefore necessary to achieve a sustainable internal market for mortgage credit by ensuring that the specificities of each market are respected and subsidiarity and proportionality are preserved. this requires fair and compatible practices, transparent relations between the parties, greater supervision, financial education, and adequate information and consumer protection (a subject on which parliament has been active, in particular by ensuring advice and strengthening the rights of customers). i voted in favour of this report because it will contribute to the strength of this market and will act in the best interests of consumers.
in writing. - mortgages are the most important long-term commitment made by households in the purchase of a home (about 70% in the eu), and are of great economic importance in the eu (52.3% of gdp). despite their size, retail mortgage markets are fragmented and legislation on this matter is crucial, given that it was the crisis in the us housing market, which spread to europe, that triggered the current crisis. the need to conclude responsible credit agreements, eliminating the bad practices that have been observed so far, is the point that parliament has stressed most in its opinion on this matter. much of the work on this dossier involves the sustainable establishment of an internal market in mortgage credit, ensuring that the specificities of each market are respected and subsidiarity and proportionality are preserved. this requires fair and compatible practices, transparent relations between the parties, greater supervision, financial education, and adequate information and consumer protection (a subject on which parliament has been active, in particular by ensuring advice and strengthening the rights of customers). i am voting in favour of this text, as it will strengthen this market and act in the best interests of consumers.
in writing. − this directive seeks to improve the rules on credit agreements for the purchase of residential immovable property in order to make them fairer and more transparent for the contracting parties, in particular for the debtors. in portugal, 82% of credit granted to private individuals is for the purchase of residential property and since 2008 there has been an increase in bad debt in this same sector. the european parliament has therefore introduced new rules aimed at giving private individuals greater protection in this type of contract, in particular the prohibition on making them dependent on the purchase of other insurance or financial products from the same bank, the possibility, by agreement, of the property being sufficient collateral for the payment of the loan and the termination of the contract, a period of at least 7 days for the debtor to accept the contract, among others. the market for credit for house purchase, given its importance for households, should be properly regulated and transparent, allowing for a truly informed choice that reflects households' ability to pay.
in writing. - mortgages are the most important long-term commitment made by households in the purchase of a home (about 70% in the eu), and are of great economic importance in the eu (52.3% of gdp). despite their size, retail mortgage markets are fragmented and legislation on this matter is crucial, given that it was the crisis in the us housing market, which spread to europe, that triggered the current crisis. the need to conclude responsible credit agreements, eliminating the bad practices that have been observed so far, is the point that parliament has stressed most in its opinion on this matter. much of the work on this dossier involves the sustainable establishment of an internal market in mortgage credit, ensuring that the specificities of each market are respected and subsidiarity and proportionality are preserved. this requires fair and compatible practices, transparent relations between the parties, greater supervision, financial education, and adequate information and consumer protection (a subject on which parliament has been active, in particular by ensuring advice and strengthening the rights of customers). i am voting in favour of this text, as it will strengthen this market and act in the best interests of consumers.
in writing. - by introducing some aspects of greater transparency into the process of granting housing credit, this directive may remove some additional obstacles to access to such credit. on the one hand, it provides for the obligation for guarantors to subscribe to financial products and to set up payment accounts, with capital accumulation to cover the credit granted. on the other hand, it maintains (and may even increase) the power of the banks in eviction proceedings, since it does not define rules for the protection of people who, in this context of severe crisis, face situations of unemployment, loss or decrease in income. nevertheless, it is positive that provision is made for clearer, more detailed and duly explained information and for an appropriate solvency check. but this report ends up keeping intact the mechanisms that allow banks to accumulate fabulous profits by extorting from individuals and families. the main responsibility for credit problems continues to lie with the borrower and not with the banks, which will continue to control the mechanisms of spreads and interest formation and to act with impunity. the power of national sovereign institutions to set adjusted credit policies, particularly in public banks, is also progressively eroded.
in writing. - the proposal aims to create an internal market in mortgage credit against the background of the financial crisis. the financial crisis has had a substantial impact on eu citizens. as borrowers found their loans increasingly unbearable, defaults and foreclosures increased. therefore, addressing the issue of irresponsible lending and borrowing is an important element in financial reform efforts. this proposal has two objectives: firstly, to create an efficient and competitive single market for consumers, lenders and credit intermediaries, with a high level of protection, promoting consumer confidence, customer mobility, cross-border activities of lenders and credit intermediaries; secondly, the proposal aims to promote financial stability by ensuring that mortgage credit markets operate in a responsible manner. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report presents a number of measures on the problem of credit agreements for housing. i would like to stress the request to the commission to launch new initiatives on the responsible granting and taking of loans and the request to define contracts with special risks. such contracts should be defined and risks should be managed through additional measures, including consumer warnings and stricter prudential requirements, so that the parties exposed to the highest risks also bear the potential costs of assuming those risks. in agreeing with these and other measures, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the creation of a stable, resilient, efficient and competitive internal mortgage credit market is vital for sustainable growth and for achieving the eu 2020 objectives. this document introduces new conditions for creditors and credit intermediaries, competent authorities and supervisory requirements. some of the key points in this report are responsible lending and borrowing; a definition of contracts with special risks, with those being managed through additional measures; the solvency check, which is essential for a sustainable market; the introduction of a cooling-off period, allowing consumers some time to compare the various offers; the right to early repayment, as it must be ensured that consumers are not penalised for exercising their rights; better property valuation for both lenders and consumers; and finally, giving greater power to local authorities, as each member state should have the power to set standards for property loans in its territory. we must regard national diversity as an asset, always preserving the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. − by introducing some aspects of greater transparency into the process of granting loans for the purchase of housing, this directive will limit access to housing credit. on the one hand, it adds the obligation for guarantors to subscribe to financial products and to set up payment accounts, with capital accumulation to cover the credit granted; on the other hand, it maintains (and may even increase) the power of the banks in eviction proceedings, since it does not lay down rules for the protection of people who, in this context of severe crisis, face unemployment, loss of income or reduced incomes. nevertheless, it is positive that the provision of clearer, more detailed and properly explained information, an adequate solvency check is defined. however, this report ends up keeping intact the mechanisms that allow banks to accumulate fabulous profits by extorting individuals and families. in addition to the problems with credit agreements, there is also a desire to erode the power of the institutions of national sovereignty to define policies for the granting of credit, particularly in public banks, by centralising and harmonising these decisions, while also continuing the policies of replacing wages by credit. with these policies, the fundamental right to housing will be further away. we voted against it.
in writing. the resolution was intended to bring the provisions on imports of rice originating in bangladesh into line with the formal requirements of the lisbon treaty. the almost unanimous vote in committee shows that it is not contentious. i hope that rice imports from that country will respect food safety rules and that the product will be handled by workers whose labour rights and safety are respected. we are still too aware of the victims of the textile factory fires in bangladesh.
in writing. the aim of the commission proposal is to bring regulation (eec) no 3491/90 on imports of rice originating in bangladesh into line with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated acts. the commission also proposes repealing regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replacing it with a new regulation, which the rapporteur supports, as it considers that this regulation does not currently have any impact on the import arrangements of bangladesh to the eu. the rapporteur makes some amendments to the regulation to bring it into line with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh. on export requirements, the rapporteur shall remove the references to the export tax to be charged by the exporting country from an amount corresponding to the reduction of import duties. this is because he believes that this decision should be taken by the political legislators of bangladesh and not by the institutions of the european union. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to harmonise the regulation currently governing imports of rice from bangladesh into the eu, in line with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated acts introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. however, i think it is essential that in this new regulation it should be in line both with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh, and therefore a new recital and a new paragraph have been inserted in article 1 of the regulation. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. − preferential access for products from the least developed countries (ldcs), including preferential import arrangements for rice, is a result of the uruguay round of gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade, the predecessor to the wto), which was signed in its entirety in 1994. this report deals with the regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh and its updating to the post-lisbon regime. the request made by parliament to bring this regulation into line with both the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication should be underlined, and a new recital and new paragraph have therefore been inserted in article 1 of the regulation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to repeal council regulation (ec) no 3491/90 of 1990 on imports of rice from bangladesh in order to bring legal clarity, with the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as regards the implementing and delegated acts of the european commission. the new regulation will again take account of the preferential access of products from the least developed countries, in this particular case of rice imports from bangladesh with an annual quota, within the framework of everything but arms, which establishes a duty-free and quota-free market for all products from developing countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the aim of the commission proposal is to bring regulation (eec) no 3491/90 on imports of rice originating in bangladesh into line with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated acts. the commission also proposes to repeal regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replace it with a new regulation, which the rapporteur supports, as it considers that this regulation does not currently have any impact on the import arrangements of bangladesh to the eu. the rapporteur makes some amendments to the regulation to make it consistent with the overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh. the rapporteur also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste, because i was opposed to the commission's proposal, which in my view could have negative consequences for the environment, as it would introduce an increased risk to the recycling of waste paper in the european union by favouring its transfer to third countries.
in writing. the report by mr matthias groote deals with the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions. the excess of co2 allowances, due to the economic slowdown and the fact that supply has been higher than demand, has led to a decline in the carbon price to levels never expected when the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) was created. this reduction in the carbon price is insufficient to drive sufficiently sustainable scientific and technological innovation and has thus become a factor in reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies. i agree with this proposal, in that it aims to allow the commission to freeze or postpone part of the auctions for co2 emission allowances in order to increase the price of these allowances and to encourage the development of technologies to reduce emissions in the fight against climate change. this proposed short-term measure should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances, but rather as an option to ensure the stability of the eu ets until the necessary adoption of long-term structural measures.
in writing. - this report, while acknowledging the ineffectiveness (and implicitly the perversity) of the instrument, does not propose its abandonment, as was demanded and as we have insistently advocated. the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances, the trading of pollution quotas only serves the big polluters, who have the capacity to buy the allowances. the amendment proposed is merely an amendment. they reduce or delay the issuance of allowances, as the supply is currently much higher than the demand, and the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2. the promised incentives for the implementation of low-carbon technologies have disappeared. furthermore, this report advocates that such measures should only be adopted in exceptional circumstances and that the decision to adapt the auction calendar should be executed only once in the third trading period of the eu emission trading scheme (eu ets). it is not therefore a question of protecting the environment, but of protecting a market which is in decline because of lack of demand, as a result of the state of many industries, with thousands of factories closing. as we have said, this is the defence of yet another scheme for the generation of fictitious financial assets.
in writing. - the debate on emissions of polluting gases is becoming increasingly important, but we cannot continue to be hostages to our energy dependence on oil and its derivatives. we must therefore find energy alternatives that are more environmentally friendly and equally reliable. however, data from 2010 tells us that there was a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. however, as this report points out, europe is only responsible for 11% of global co2 emissions and our actions in isolation are not enough to stop the process of increasing co2 emissions. this has to be a joint effort by all the powers, particularly the brics, with increasing responsibilities in terms of co2 emissions. some short- and long-term measures are needed to rebalance the greenhouse gas emission allowance market, otherwise there will be no incentive to invest in renewable energy with the inherent adverse effects on our environment.
in writing. − the european union emission trading scheme (eu ets) is a key instrument for reducing eu industrial emissions in a cost-effective way. since the start of the second marketing year in 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 10%. the original intention was to create a market-based measure that would stimulate the carbon price, thereby positively influencing investment in low-carbon technologies and renewable energy, which in turn would lead to a reduction in emissions. however, the reduction of emissions in the second marketing period contributed to a large extent to the economic crisis, which led to a reduction in economic activity and production, as stated in the commission report on the situation of the european carbon market in 2012. as there are currently serious imbalances in the system, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to clarify the legal provisions on the timing of auctions and to ensure that the stability and predictability of the eu ets is not undermined, as well as to ensure that an assessment is carried out to avoid any significant impact on sectors at risk of relocation.
in writing. − the european union emissions trading scheme (eu ets) was developed with the aim of creating a market-based measure to stimulate the carbon price, thereby encouraging investment in low-carbon technologies and renewable energy. the eu ets has indeed become a key instrument for reducing industrial emissions in the union, but it currently faces serious imbalances. the economic crisis we are facing today, combined with the influx of external credits from the clean development mechanism to reduce emissions, among other regulatory provisions, has resulted in the issuance of excess licences, which has resulted in a significant reduction in the carbon price: from €30/t co2 to around €7/t co2. therefore, and in order to correct the current imbalance, it is hereby proposed that greenhouse gas emission allowances that would have been auctioned in the period 2013-2020 be temporarily suspended.
in writing. - this report, while acknowledging the ineffectiveness of the instrument, does not propose its abandonment, as was demanded and as we have insistently advocated. the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances and the trading of pollution allowances only serve the large polluters with the financial capacity to buy the allowances. the amendment proposed is merely an amendment. they reduce or delay the issuance of allowances, as the supply is currently much higher than the demand, and the carbon price has decreased from around eur 30/t co2 to around eur 7/t co2. where are the promised incentives for the implementation of low-carbon technologies? it is not therefore a question of protecting the environment, but of protecting a market which is in decline because of lack of demand, as a result of the state of many industries, with thousands of factories closing. as we have said, this is the defence of yet another scheme for the generation of fictitious financial assets.
in writing. - i am in favour of this motion and it seems natural that the current legislation may have to be adjusted to keep pace with technological developments.
in writing. - this proposal is based on the council's proposed regulation laying down certain criteria defining the quantities of non-paper elements in waste and the transformations undergone in order to determine whether they can be reintegrated into paper fibre processing or recycling processes and no longer be considered waste. the resolution considers that the proposed council regulation is not compatible with its own objective and exceeds the implementing powers conferred on the commission under the basic act, and that the impacts of the draft regulation on paper recycling and transfers of waste paper in the form of a product to third countries are not properly assessed, and is not able to provide the committee with a justification for changing the end point of the waste status. there is a market and demand for recovered paper by the paper industry and this regulation also aims to meet the standards and specifications of these industries without focusing too much on environmental criteria. the comments in the motion for a resolution are relevant and justified, and we have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − with this resolution, we want to call on the commission to review the criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste under article 6 (1) of the waste directive 2008/98/ec. the commission has not properly assessed the consequences of the draft regulation for paper recycling, the waste paper value chain, the transfer of waste paper to third countries and the overall environmental effects of the draft regulation. the commission should therefore reconsider the draft regulation and improve the proposed criteria for the establishment of the end of the waste status in the light of the objections raised in this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament opposing the adoption of the council regulation establishing criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste within the meaning of article 6 (1) of directive 2008/98/ec on waste, on the grounds that the draft council regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic act and exceeds the implementing powers conferred on the commission by the basic act.
in writing. - this proposal is based on the council's proposed regulation which lays down certain criteria defining the quantities of non-paper elements in waste and the transformations undergone, in order to determine whether they can be reintegrated into paper fibre processing or recycling processes and no longer be considered waste. the rapporteur considers that the proposal for a council regulation is not compatible with the proposed objective and exceeds the implementing powers conferred on the commission under the basic act; the committee also considers that the impact of the draft regulation on paper recycling and on the transfer of waste paper in the form of a product to third countries has not been properly assessed. there is a market and a demand for recovered paper by the paper industry. although this regulation also aims to meet the standards and specifications of these industries, it does not deal much with environmental criteria. we have voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because we consider the comments in the motion for a resolution to be relevant and justified.
in writing. - there are more than 10 million roma in the european union, who are often victims of discrimination, racism and prejudice, which makes it difficult for them to be effectively integrated. in portugal, according to official estimates, there are between 50,000 and 100,000 roma. in 2011, the european union adopted a european framework for national roma integration strategies. the integration of roma is in the interest of the member states, as they represent a significant and growing part of the school-age population and the future workforce. the results of the implementation of the first strategies have shown the need for further progress, in particular in access to the labour market, education and health, the fight against discrimination and the fight against violence against women. the need for these strategies to be implemented with greater coordination and participation of ngos linked to the defence of roma and women's organisations is emphasised. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the economic and social integration of roma in europe.
in writing. - there are some 10 to 12 million roma in europe, the largest minority in europe, who remain largely economically and socially marginalised, maintaining a vicious cycle of poverty that is passed on from generation to generation. determined action is needed, in active dialogue with roma communities, at national and eu level, to meet the challenge posed by the much needed integration of these communities. greater integration of roma into the labour market is urgently needed, which will have economic and financial consequences for roma populations and for the countries themselves. the other major priority is investment in education and training. the roma population is young, with some 35.7% under the age of 15, so it is essential to invest in their education and reduce the number of school leavers, so that these young people can more easily enter the labour market. national roma integration strategies should therefore be effective and meet the overall objectives set, with targeted actions and sufficient funding to meet them. a more effective use of eu funds should also be ensured, including through an effective monitoring system to ensure concrete results for these communities.
in writing. − although long-standing cultural reasons lead to different treatment of the genders within roma communities, the eu should strive in its roma integration policies to promote a greater balance in the treatment of men and women, especially in safeguarding the rights of the latter to physical integrity, education and freedom, promoting a true culture of respect for women and their essential role in the community.
in writing. − following the council conclusions on an eu framework for a national roma integration strategy in 2011, which followed the controversial and xenophobic decisions taken in france by the sarkozy government (now followed by similar decisions by the hollande government), and following the commission's assessment of the national strategies, the committee on women's rights and gender equality decided to draw up an own-initiative report to highlight the need to strengthen the gender perspective on this issue. roma women face multiple discrimination on the grounds of sex and ethnic origin - in access to employment, education, health, social services and limited decision-making, patriarchal traditions (condition their freedom of choice in fundamental issues of their lives such as education, work, sexual and reproductive education and even marriage) and are often victims of racism, prejudice and stereotypes. the report makes specific recommendations to the member states and the eu institutions which, in general, deserve our support, and we voted in favour of it.
in writing. − this report specifically refers to the first results of the european framework for national roma integration strategies, with a section specifically devoted to women, and calls for greater progress in the implementation of the various inclusion strategies, as well as greater involvement and more effective coordination of all organisations involved in these processes. the package of measures presented thus strengthens the economic and social integration of roma communities in a europe with 10 to 12 million roma.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the gender aspects of the european framework for national roma integration strategies, which welcomes the commission's 2012 interim report and the proposal for a council recommendation of 26 june 2013 on effective measures to integrate roma in the member states, with a particular focus on access to employment, housing and education, and which calls on member states to take positive measures and to incorporate roma integration strategies in their fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. - social inclusion is a cornerstone of today's societies. this own-initiative report shows the first results of national integration strategies for the roma, a vulnerable group that is constantly being mistreated. the european parliament therefore calls for greater efforts to be made in implementing national integration policies, with the involvement of non-governmental organisations and civil society. the commission is also calling for the same policies to be taken into account for roma women, who are often the main victims of this social exclusion. i am in favour of adopting this own-initiative report.
in writing. − following the council conclusions on an eu framework for a national roma integration strategy in 2011 and the ec's evaluation of the national strategies, the femm committee decided to draw up an own-initiative report to highlight that the gender perspective should be strengthened. we know that roma women face multiple discrimination on the grounds of gender and ethnic origin in access to employment, education, health, social services, have limited decision-making and are often victims of racism, prejudice and stereotypes. the report makes a number of recommendations, for example, calling on member states to eradicate violence against women and girls, addressing trafficking in roma women and girls, and inviting member states to develop specific programmes to ensure that roma girls, women and young people remain in primary, secondary and higher education. the report also calls on member states to develop anti-discrimination strategies to prevent and condemn racist behaviour in public services and in the labour market in particular. we voted yes.
in writing. - i agree that this report should have a word of caution and awareness for the situation between sudan and south sudan, encouraging dialogue between the two parties in order to resolve the conflict which impedes the free exploitation of energy and natural resources. i agree with the insistence that south sudan should also ratify the cotonou agreement and continue on the path to democracy, stability and sustainability.
in writing. - this owninitiative report, like many others, has both positive and very negative aspects. the report takes as its premise the need for economic and social development for the establishment of a rule of law in south sudan, based on the principles, recommendations and influence of the eu, its services (including the eeas) and institutions. the report calls on the european union to coordinate its strategy across the region more effectively, specifically by linking the objectives and scope of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa to those of the eu strategy for security and development in the sahel. the report warns (covert blackmail?) of the consequences of south sudan's non-accession to the cotonou agreement. this is making it difficult to programme eu aid ... under the 11th european development fund, which could result in losses for south sudan. however, the report expresses concerns and makes recommendations in the area of the protection of women and children, particularly in access to health, education, participation in public life, the problem of forced marriages and genital mutilation, among other positive aspects.
in writing. − south sudan is one of the poorest countries in the world, with deficits in all development indicators set out in the millennium development goals. however, politics is not the only obstacle to south sudan's development: good governance, the fight against corruption, the functioning of administrations and the creation of infrastructure are prerequisites for sustainable economic development. this is where the european union and its member states have a decisive role to play. in december 2011, the council adopted a single strategy to respond to the challenges facing south sudan and under the 9th european development fund (edf) eur 285 million was allocated, bringing the total eu contribution to eur 830 million. this strategy aims to ensure food security, taking into account the natural resources, health, education, the rule of law, water and basic sanitation of the young state. only with the continued support of the eu and other developed states will it be possible to free this young country from the serious problems it is facing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the efforts of the international community in the field of development and state consolidation in south sudan, which sets out the progress and remaining challenges in south sudan, and the active role of the union, which remains deeply committed to providing its assistance to the new state.
in writing. − the republic of south sudan has been an independent country since 9 july 2011. that same year, it became a member of the united nations and the african union. a country rich in oil, which contains 75% of the oil reserves of the former sudan, but at the same time one of the poorest countries in the world, where disputes with sudan still persist. the report therefore calls for transparency in the management of oil reserves profits, while at the same time the relationship between sudan and south sudan is based on constructive dialogue and a commitment to reconciliation. it also agreed to allocate eur 285 million in development aid from the date of independence to the present, but called on south sudan to ratify the cotonou agreement in order to broaden the legal basis for the union's relationship with it. i would also like to stress the importance of extending the mandate of the special representative for sudan and south sudan as a bridge to reconciliation between the two countries.
in writing. − the report takes as its starting point the need for economic and social development for the establishment of a rule of law in south sudan, based on the principles, recommendations and influence of the eu, its services (including the eeas) and institutions. the report calls on the european union to coordinate its strategy across the region more effectively, specifically by linking the objectives and scope of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa to those of the eu strategy for security and development in the sahel. the report draws attention to the consequences of south sudan's non-accession to the cotonou agreement, which is making it difficult to programme eu aid under the 11th european development fund, which could result in losses for south sudan. however, the report expresses concerns and makes recommendations in the area of the protection of women and children, particularly in access to health, education, participation in public life, the problem of forced marriages and genital mutilation, among other positive aspects.
in writing. the european automotive industry represents 12 million direct and indirect jobs, 4% of european gdp, €90 billion in trade surpluses and a quarter of world production. this is why it is a highly relevant industry for the european economy and central to an employment and competitiveness strategy. that is why i welcome the presentation by the commission of the cars 2020 plan, the first sectoral approach developed by the commission, which is indicative of the commission's aim to make the automotive sector a priority by increasing the share of this sector in european gdp (from the current 16% to 20% in 2020).
in writing. - the automobile industry is in decline. statistics show that the number of vehicles sold fell by 6.85% for private use and by 10.87% for business use. the report endorses all the commission's initiatives and states that the solution for the sector lies in greater competitiveness, through the strengthening of the internal market and the guarantee of more competition. the recipe is not unknown, nor are the results that come from it: a race to the top in the exploitation of labour, a race to the bottom in wages and workers' rights. the report also stresses the need for restructuring of the automotive industry aimed at retraining workers and increasing labour flexibility, which are clearly leading to the destruction and precariousness of thousands of jobs in the sector in several member states. a well-known reality in portugal. it is regrettable that the proposals we put forward in committee have been rejected. these were proposals that sought to maintain existing production in countries such as portugal and to restructure the sector to requalify and modernise its micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, to defend skilled labour and the creation of work with rights.
in writing. the european automotive industry is an undeniable and strategic asset for the european union's economy and employment. the car industry is a pillar of our industrial economy, both in real terms and in symbolic terms. it is a sector which very clearly identifies the specificities of european industry and which therefore deserves priority and rapid political action. europe must urgently define a reform agenda and policy mechanisms, the result of genuine voluntarism to consolidate our automotive industrial policy at european level.
in writing. the european automotive industry is an undeniable and strategic asset for the european union's economy and employment. the automobile industry in europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis. the european commission presented a cars 2020 action plan based on the consultation of all stakeholders in the sector (creation and reactivation of the cars 21 high level group) with the aim of developing a dynamic to put automotive industrial production back at the centre of economic development. a few years ago, europe had decided to put everything on services, but today's leaders recognise the economic and social interest in returning to a solid and lasting productive base. it is a courageous political choice which we must support in this and other areas. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which promotes a return to a productive base on the continent that makes us less dependent on our competitors.
in writing. the automotive industry in the union is suffering from a serious economic crisis, due not only to the sovereign debt crisis but also to increasing competitiveness. for this reason, the european commission has presented an action plan with four priority areas: investment in technological innovation, improvements in market access, increased global competitiveness and prevention and adaptation policies. the commitment to environmentally friendly vehicles through eco-innovation is one example of where european industry can make a stand. parliament also stressed the need for smart legislation in this sector and a moratorium on all legislative acts that could have a negative effect on the automotive industry. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider this area to be an essential pillar of the european economy.
in writing. - the automobile industry is in decline. according to statistics, the volume of vehicles sold decreased by 6.85% in private cars and by 10.87% in cars for professional use. the report endorses all the commission's initiatives and believes that the solution for the automotive sector lies in the idea of greater competitiveness in the sector, through the strengthening of the internal market and the guarantee of more competition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. it is regrettable that the proposals we put forward in the itre committee were rejected, which sought to maintain existing production in countries such as portugal in order to halt the ongoing disaster in the automobile sector and the bankruptcy of thousands of small and mediumsized businesses and the destruction of thousands of jobs, as well as to ensure adequate financial means for a restructuring of the sector that would re-qualify and modernise its micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, that would defend skilled labour and the creation of work with rights and decent working conditions.
mr president, the right wing of this parliament has given us a real horror movie here today. in 2013, the fanatical majority of this parliament does not consider women's rights to be human rights, despite the fact that they are appalled by so many international conventions that they claim to support, but of which they seem to have read only the paragraphs that interest them. in 2013, the conservative majority shamelessly displayed here their conviction that women are not human beings with the capacity to think and decide for themselves. every day that passes, the rights that took them decades to win are being called into question. the proposals contained in the estrella report do not oblige anyone, but rather open the door to different choices. today we are back in the 19th century here, but this backward, petty right will have to be defeated both at the ballot box and by the citizens' movements.
in writing. − sexual and reproductive health is a fundamental right and women's dignity requires access to adequate health services and care throughout their lives. these are values i stand for unreservedly. the report called into question the principle of subsidiarity in ethical and conscientious matters, and advocated, in particular, access to free abortion in all member states. this is not a matter for the community. the formulation and implementation of policies on sexual and reproductive health and sexual education in schools are the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i therefore argue that these issues should be dealt with at national level. it is for these reasons that i have signed the resolution tabled by the european people's party which calls for the principle of subsidiarity to be respected in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution by the epp and ecr groups which clarified that the formulation and implementation of policies on shr (sexual and reproductive health and rights) and sexual implementation in schools are a matter for the member states. the resolution also clarified that while the formulation and implementation of health and education policies are the responsibility of the member states, the eu can contribute to the promotion of best practice among member states.
in writing. - the ep, as a legislative and democratic chamber, must set the highest example of respect for the law and the powers of other bodies and institutions. the european institutions must exercise their powers efficiently and not encroach on what is reserved for the member states. i think that the report by mrs edite estrela clearly infringes the principle of subsidiarity. the apology for abortion, which objectively does not fall within the community's competence, is particularly reprehensible. i regret what seems to me to be a drift possibly associated with the pre-election period and ideologically marked agendas. this is all the more serious when it ends up undermining very relevant aspects of the report, such as the fight against inequalities and discrimination, the promotion of gender equality, the promotion of sexual and reproductive health and rights, the prevention and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases such as hiv/aids, the response to high teenage birth rates, the fight against domestic violence and rape, the fight against sexual violence in the context of war and sexual mutilation in obedience to islamic religious fundamentalism. i therefore supported the alternative resolution tabled by the ppe and signed by my colleagues paulo rangel, regina bastos and nuno teixeira, which stresses respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - the disturbing circumstance that words and concepts do not always mean what they appear to mean is well reflected in this motion for a resolution. permeated with euphemisms, it appears to have a benevolent purpose when it has a very different one. the question is whether a doctor can claim conscientious objection, refuse to perform an abortion on request and not be coerced into doing so, whether parents should have a say in the content of sex education given to their minor children, whether member states can have different positions on abortion or whether its practice constitutes a 'fundamental right' to be imposed by the community institutions on states, health services and families. it is regrettable that the self-proclaimed pluralists are trying to force the european parliament to take a stand on a matter in which the union is manifestly incompetent and to impose a worldview based on a materialistic and instrumental view of human life; and that they are demonstrating a notorious inability to accept the results of a vote with elevation by insulting those who disagreed with them. this was a bad resolution that did a terrible service to children, women and families. parliament was right not to subscribe to its content.
in writing. - we voted against the alternative resolution tabled by the ppe group (which includes the psd and cds meps), which seeks only to erase the original report from its most substantive and relevant aspects. much of what is reflected in the report reflects decades of struggle for women's rights guarantee and fulfilment of sexual and reproductive rights, a quality public health service; free access to contraceptives, family planning services with specific characteristics, implementation of comprehensive sex education, access to reproductive health services, including maternal and newborn health care, public services and giv insurance, among others. the alternative resolution tabled by the ppe is also lacking in any concrete proposal to maintain and strengthen sexual and reproductive rights. if in the past it has been possible to adopt important resolutions on this subject on several occasions, now, with this vote, this parliament shows that it is no longer fit for purpose. it is evident that his character is becoming more and more backward and reactionary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of respect for the principle of subsidiarity and against the social radicalism with which some try to impose their thinking on matters which are sensitive and deeply divisive from a sociological point of view on everyone else.
in writing. i voted in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by my group, the european people's party, because i do not agree with the socialist proposal. i did so in particular because i do not agree with the following: the imposition of sex education, depriving parents of the primacy of the right to educate their children; abortion without limits, with the consequent lack of protection for women and the total devaluation of human life in its most vulnerable, embryonic phase (in addition to which abortion can never be considered a right); and the promotion of policies against birth rate and demography, a problem which affects europe and especially portugal so seriously.
in writing. − the united nations development programme (undp) puts member states at the top of the list as regards the reproductive health status of their populations. this element is one of the three criteria for establishing the level of gender inequality. however, this same gender inequality index shows that disparities between member states remain. this report presents a set of solutions and measures for the member states in particular to implement, as i believe it should be their responsibility and not the european union's. i believe in the importance of comprehensive sex education and high-quality family planning services as a way to prevent risky behavior. i am in favour of exchanging best practice, of policies aimed at the most vulnerable populations, of campaigns to raise awareness among young people of sexually transmitted diseases. however, there are still elements in this report which go beyond the union's powers and for these reasons i shall vote against.
in writing. - we voted against the alternative resolution to report a7-0426/2013 (star report) tabled by the ppe group (group including psd and cds meps) on sexual and reproductive health and rights because, in our view, much of what is reflected in the proposed star resolution reflects the need to defend decades of women's struggle for their rights. that is, decades of struggle for the guarantee and fulfillment of sexual and reproductive rights, for a quality public health service, for free access to contraceptive means, for family planning services with specific characteristics, for the implementation of sex education, for access to reproductive health services, including maternal and neonatal health care, public services and giv insurance, among others. the rejection of this report by the majority of parliament reflects the fact that the ep is no longer even able to agree on the principle of defending basic rights, which means that it has a reactionary and conservative majority, against social progress. the social democrats who have defended this report are in many cases not following the defence of economic policies which are essential to putting the same principles into practice.
in writing. − volunteering is an important pillar of our democratic and pluralist societies. it is an expression of commitment, support and active participation in society. the impact of volunteering is immediate, as it promotes solidarity between generations, contributes to active ageing and civic participation at all stages of life, and leads to effective social inclusion. the european year of volunteering 2011 has four main objectives: to create a favourable environment for volunteering activities, to improve activities by giving better tools to their organisers, to recognise volunteering activities, to raise public awareness of the importance of volunteering activities. a number of measures have been taken to achieve these objectives, including the creation of a european skills passport which provides a complete overview of volunteers' skills through official recognition, whether in a professional context or in terms of learning. to this end, the member states and the commission should provide for a single point of contact, as a permanent service, responsible for the voluntary policy and for coordination between the services and the different institutions. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on volunteering and voluntary activities in europe, in favour of creating and promoting more opportunities for mobility and learning, especially for young people, through a common european approach to forms of volunteering, the adequacy of financial support and the protection of the health and safety of volunteers. volunteering activities in europe promote civic participation at all ages, thereby contributing to intergenerational solidarity and intercultural learning, which are important elements for the development of formal and non-formal skills and competences of european citizens.
in writing. − volunteering covers all forms of non-profit-making activities carried out on the basis of free will, choice and personal motivation. it is an expression of generosity that promotes the values of solidarity and mutual aid, contributing to social integration and the dissipation of feelings of discrimination. following the establishment of the european year of volunteering, several countries have implemented the international labour organisation's volunteering evaluation manual, encouraging others to do the same as it provides consistent data on volunteering in order to provide a clear framework for its important contribution. the report notes the positive results for the european year of volunteering in 2011, but this assessment may not be the same if we take into account that volunteering depends on the existence of free time for workers and is absolutely incompatible with exploitative situations, irregular or excessive working hours, low wages and job insecurity. improving the development of volunteering also involves promoting and supporting the activities of non-profit organisations, such as, among many others, the cooperative movement, local authorities and societies, residents' committees, sports, recreational, cultural, youth or child-oriented associations.
in writing. − volunteering is an expression of active citizenship in all aspects of social life and is a key activity for the development of democratic values, human dignity, equality and subsidiarity. it should therefore be supported by all member states. the figures reveal a body of 100 million european citizens engaged in various volunteering activities, capable of contributing to the production of 5% of european gdp, and these activities being considered by 80% of citizens as an important element of democratic life and a meaningful way for citizens to participate in society. volunteering is thus a precious european heritage.
in writing. − volunteering is an important pillar of our democratic and pluralist societies. following the establishment of the european year of volunteering, during which i was particularly involved in various actions in brussels and the azores, several countries made efforts to develop the voluntary sector. many countries have implemented the international labour organisation's volunteer evaluation manual, encouraging others to do the same, as it provides consistent data on volunteering to provide a clear framework for its important contribution. i voted in favour of this report which takes stock of the european year of volunteering and calls on the european commission to take concrete action in this field. i would stress the call to the commission and the member states to further promote european voluntary service in universities and other higher education institutions.
in writing. − in a pluralistic and democratic society, the exercise of voluntary activity is of the utmost importance for the formation of an equal and just society. following the european year of volunteering in 2011 and the implementation by some member states of the international labour organisation's volunteering evaluation manual, it is imperative to continue to create an enabling environment for the development of volunteering activities. member states should encourage their citizens to recognise the importance of this activity through awareness campaigns and by increasing support for non-governmental organisations carrying out these activities. this report draws attention to the importance of creating a contact point to coordinate volunteering activities and to include it as an informal competence. i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − volunteering covers all forms of non-profit-making activities carried out on the basis of free will, choice and personal motivation. it is an expression of support, active participation in society and promotes the values of solidarity and mutual aid, contributing to social integration and the dissipation of feelings of discrimination. following the establishment of the european year of volunteering, several countries have implemented the international labour organisation's volunteering evaluation manual, encouraging others to do the same as it provides consistent data on volunteering in order to provide a clear framework for its important contribution. although the report is generally positive, there are aspects with which we cannot agree, such as the concept of european identity that we know means agreement with the process of capitalist integration of the eu. the report notes the positive results of the european year of volunteering in 2011. we believe that volunteering can never replace jobs. improving the development of volunteering also involves promoting and supporting the activities of non-profit organisations, including many others: the cooperative movement, local authorities and societies, residents' committees, sports, recreational, cultural, youth or child-oriented associations. we voted yes.
mr president, i want to express my support not only for those who are demonstrating courageously in maidan square, but also for those ukrainians who are demonstrating in lisbon, in portuguese, because they realise that their future of democracy and freedom depends on the european union and that is precisely why i doubt that, in fact, knowing the nature and the constraints of yanukovych's power, the european union could not have done better in putting on the table a package that left no room to reject the vilnius agreement. that agreement is there and we must do everything possible to meet the expectations of the ukrainian people. it is extraordinary that the european union is in crisis and still has this power of attraction. it is freedom, it is democracy, it is the values of social justice that ukrainians are fighting for and that we have to honour, in the european union and in ukraine.
mr president, the ukrainian people have many grievances. the failure of economic and political reforms in the last 20 years of capitalist restoration has led to the increase of inequalities and poverty. we've seen what's happening today before. we have seen in the so-called orange revolution the manipulation and exploitation of the discontent of the population, the creation of illusions about the european union. the parade of visits and external interference by ministers, members of parliament and personalities is blatant. the european union is now on the side of the ultra-nationalist and neo-fascist groups and their unacceptable acts of provocation. it is certainly not by inciting nationalism and division that ukraine will secure peace and sovereignty. let the ukrainian people decide sovereignly, freely, without self-interested, arrogant and undemocratic interference.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - i shall speak mainly about the instrument for democracy and human rights. it is an important tool of the european union to be used without the consent of governments in supporting human rights defenders, those who promote gender equality, the rule of law, free elections, democracy. it is our responsibility to help them in this fight, in which they so often risk their own lives. i regret, however, the lack of transparency in the country-specific human rights strategies, which will lack adequate parliamentary scrutiny, scrutiny which, however, can be strengthened if the european parliament exercises its powers through the delegated act on general objectives, priorities and indicative financial allocations which our rapporteur, alexander lambsdorff, managed to obtain in the difficult negotiations with the council and the commission and for which i am fulfilling. i stress the responsibility of parliament in the next legislature to unlock the full potential of this delegated act. i hope that this instrument in the new multiannual framework will be used in a smart and strategic way, fully serving a coherent and consistent human rights policy, in coordination with the implementation of other geographically focused instruments and with foreign policy in general. that's the only way we're gonna get results. i also expect the commission to involve civil society in a timely and structured way in the preparation of strategies and the setting of priorities. this instrument is paramount for the funding of civil society organisations, including those based locally, the independent press, trade unions, women's organisations, think tanks, those who often work in very difficult circumstances. support to civil society should remain the priority of this instrument, election observation missions are important but should only be sent when there is clear added value, and to the extent that they are integrated into long-term support for the establishment of institutions and an electoral system of governance that respects democratic standards throughout the electoral cycle. finally, i would like to make a protest here against the fact that the european development fund is being left without parliamentary scrutiny by the will of european governments. it is contrary to democracy and human rights in the european union and in our developing partners. it's a shame!
in writing. the report on the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide is important because it is about managing one of the eu's most important missions in the world which should continue to be supported. i believe that this instrument can make the eu more effective in defending human rights and democracy, particularly because it allows it to provide assistance without the consent of the member states, which is entirely justified in this type of intervention.
- the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets, mr president, although this is not the legal framework we would like for the european globalisation adjustment fund, it is important to stress that the support which has been given to workers in the context of this fund is support directed at those who are the first victims of the dramatic processes of industrial relocation and restructuring in europe. the effort to adapt the training of dismissed workers to their specific needs, the extension of the fund to all those who are in precarious conditions, including call centre workers, for example, are clearly positive notes. this fund does not solve the whole problem and will therefore always be insufficient because there is no european legal framework and no call for member states to solve legal frameworks that restrict and prevent relocations and false restructurings and force multinationals to bear the costs of these collective redundancies. the more than 113 requests for mobilisation of the egf submitted by 20 member states, which directly benefits 102 411 workers, are sufficient to show the enormous importance of this fund but also the hypocrisy of the planned cut in the multiannual financial framework of about one third of this fund, in a scenario of deepening austerity.
mr president, i argued in the committee on agriculture that, since it has not been given the necessary legislative power to ensure that the egf is a genuine instrument capable of effectively producing the answers needed by farmers, comagri should decide to exclude it from the fund. it should do so by claiming the part of the financial envelope that was reserved for farmers for use under the cap. moreover, farmers' needs and their specificities in this area were best addressed within the cap. the worst service that could be rendered to farmers was to pass the regulation where their presence could be invoked but where farmers could not use or find the answers they really needed. and indeed, it is true that, up to this point, the regulation is not even remotely adequate to respond to farmers, nor does the financial envelope provide the means for such a response to be effective or to be given. the regulation, for the benefit of the workers, has been greatly improved and i congratulate everyone for their contribution to this.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a word of congratulations to the rapporteur for her good work. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been an important instrument of solidarity in europe. the mass redundancies caused by globalisation and the economic crisis occur very frequently in regions where there are already many unemployed people and where the possibilities of reconversion or finding another job are very difficult. since its creation five years ago, the fund has helped more than 100 000 workers in 20 member states to find a new job and acquire new skills. the continuation of the egf is therefore very important, especially for countries in crisis. i therefore welcome the continuation of this fund until 2020, which was in danger of not happening, i welcome the 60% co-financing and i also welcome the fact that this fund is complementary to measures to combat youth unemployment, and can benefit young people who are in a more precarious situation, who cannot find a job or are not studying, and i welcome the extension of the scope of this fund to other categories of workers.
madam president, firstly, a matter of principle with regard to the fund. let us not absolutize it as the solution to the problems of redundancies in the european union. what we're discussing here is just a palliative. we must tackle the problem at its root, we must break with the policies pursued by the european union, which are daily impoverishing the peoples of europe, destroying millions of jobs, postponing the future of men and women, especially young people, because the policies of the european union are aimed at promoting the concentration of capital, the accumulation of profits, which only goes hand in hand with cheap labour, destroying production systems, creating more and more redundancies. second question: in 2012, most of this fund went to spain, denmark, italy, sweden, finland and germany. some of these countries are certainly not the most worrisome socioeconomic situations. portugal and greece have not even applied for the fund. even with 60% funding, and we commend the rapporteur for having achieved this, several countries risk being prevented from using the fund. we therefore proposed an amendment providing for 95% funding for applications from a member state with an unemployment rate above the european union average. we thought it would be fairer.
madam president, little is known about the social and employment situation of domestic workers, little or nothing is said about this occupational sector, and why? perhaps because most of these workers are certainly working in the informal sector. the statistical data are thus scarce and we think, too, uncertain. eurostat data estimate that there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the european union, 89% of whom are women and half of whom are migrants. it is clear that domestic work is one of the most unprotected and invisible jobs, given its isolated and individual character. it is therefore often difficult for domestic workers to obtain information about their rights, to organise themselves in associations and trade unions representing their interests and thus to be more protected in the defence of their labour and social rights. domestic work is characterized by precariousness, the absence of a work contract, late payment of wages, the demand for overtime without proper remuneration, disregard for the right to holidays and breaks, the non-payment of holidays and vacations, the absence of social security payments, among others. according to the ilo, in many cases domestic workers are victims of low wages, excessively long hours, lack of a weekly rest day and sometimes physical, mental or sexual abuse or restrictions on their freedom of movement. ilo research also shows that, globally, only 10% of all domestic workers are covered by general labour legislation to the same extent as other workers. the ilo convention referred to here expresses as its main objective the enhancement of domestic workers by providing, among other guarantees, the recognition of the importance of domestic workers to the economy, the adoption of measures by signatory states to respect, promote and implement the fundamental principles and rights of labour - freedom of association, freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining - the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour and the guarantee that domestic workers are informed of their working conditions in an appropriate and comprehensible manner and, where possible, by means of a written contract. we do, however, have some concerns. we know that there is trafficking in human beings, particularly trafficking in women, not only from third countries to the european union but also between countries of the european union. we therefore believe that states should pay particular attention to the monitoring of contracts concluded in their countries, particularly by private employment agencies which employ people from other countries to work as domestic workers. we are also particularly concerned about workers who work for different employers, which means that it will be more difficult to estimate for each employee what the wage will be given to him, taking into account the achievement of a minimum wage which is that which is designated by the convention we are talking about. the great challenge in raising the rights of domestic workers lies more in changing the practical reality than the legislation, so their organisation, strengthening and their capacity to demand are key. it is essential to bring this debate to the public, to value and dignify the important work of these workers, and we therefore agree that the council should authorise the member states to ratify this convention.
member of the commission. − madam president, the european commission works shoulder to shoulder with the international liberal organisations for decent work, improved working conditions and against poverty. this cooperation has been extended in recent years to new fora, such as the g20; in eu member states, on important issues like rebuilding the social dialogue, we work together with the ilo, especially in the so-called programme countries. in my view, implementing the ilo domestic workers’ convention well matches the core values and fundamental rights of the european union, as well as our social, gender equality and anti-discrimination policies. we also consider that the ratification of the convention contributes to our strategy towards the eradication of trafficking in human beings. the commission welcomes the draft recommendation submitted to this plenary. we will monitor the future of this convention within the member states and will certainly raise it in the future in our engagement with the member states, if necessary.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would first of all like to thank all those who have spoken in this debate and i would like to make a few comments on what has been said. the question of undocumented workers is also a question that is largely related to the need for a written employment contract, because often workers can only be legalised by presenting this document. on the other hand, the fact that it is a written contract not only regularizes and guarantees what the rights are, but also often allows migrants who have difficulty understanding the spoken language to actually understand what commitments they are making when they sign a contract. i would like to say that i agree with everything that has been said and that in fact the main concern from my point of view is how to put these measures into practice, because we know that even if the states ratify it, it will take a lot of effort to reach these domestic workers and to reach the employers and to make them comply with the guarantees that are stipulated in this convention. finally, i would like to say that i think that all the policies of the european union which are based on the precariousness of labour relations and on the reduction of wages and workers' rights in general will certainly not contribute to the raising of the rights of domestic workers, who are an even more vulnerable group than most workers.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank mr cutaş for his active work on the commission proposal of june 2013. as you know, since then, with the backing of the g8 and g20, the automatic exchange of information has emerged as a new global standard. but the work is not yet done. i would therefore like to request you to fully support the main aim of the proposal, which is to bring a broader range of financial information within the scope of the automatic exchange of information. certain amendments in the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs depart slightly from this objective. i believe that, in order to ensure a coherent approach at eu level, it is crucial that member states should not be able to differ in terms of the amount of information that they provide automatically to each other. the european parliament has always been very supportive towards the mandatory exchange of information and it cannot afford to give half-hearted support to the work on a global standard for automatic exchange of information. most member states have confirmed their support for such a global standard. we are actively participating in the oecd work on the global standard and, as a result, the standard now takes on board most of the eu concerns. the oecd’s aim is to present the global standard to the g20 finance ministers and central bank governors at the meeting scheduled for next february. the commission’s proposal that we are discussing today would provide a suitable legal basis to implement the global standard within the eu. work on this proposal must therefore continue in parallel with the work at the oecd so that the eu can lead the way by adopting the global standard via the directive, once it has been approved by the g20. the proposal for a directive will also have to take account of the concerns recently expressed by the european data protection supervisor. although the commission shares the concerns of parliament on the need to ensure adequate protection of personal data, we do not consider it necessary to overload the legal text with references to eu data protection rules. the question of data protection is already tackled by relevant prohibitions in the existing directive which are also applicable to the current proposal. having said this, we are currently considering how best to take account of the european data protection supervisor’s comments, and have also brought them to the attention of the council, as member states would also have to take them on board in their individual arrangements on automatic information exchange with third countries.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament madam president, to combat tax fraud, the remedies usually suggested are to end tax havens or to end jurisdictions for the concealment of dividends and capital gains. as we know that this is not politically easy to do, solutions are always put off until the future and can never be implemented now. but what we can do, and we can do now, is to deplete the oxygen, that is, to take the oxygen out of these tax evasion mechanisms. how did you do that? ending the opacity in information exchange. that is what the commission proposal is proposing to do and that is what the work that our colleague mr cutaş has done in our consultation report is proposing to maintain, namely that information be automatically transferred between member states of the union so that the proceeds of companies in some countries of the union cannot be hidden in others and i see many colleagues here who say they are in favour of this but then they bring in amendments which create holes in the legislation which will allow exactly that to be done. my dear colleagues, we must know where we stand, whether we are on the side of the ordinary citizen who sees that taxes for schools, hospitals and gardens are being hidden or whether we are on the side of the big companies that are fleeing from one country to another in the union.
mr president, council meetings are beginning to look more and more like lobby meetings, or at least where lobbies are coming in more forcefully. the council meetings are increasingly unresponsive to the needs of the european people. years and years of responding to the lobbies of the financial sector and by december, what governments remember is to add to those the arms lobbies. so when we have poverty, unemployment, real, concrete problems facing people in europe, what the council remembers, or what the governments remember, is that we have to invest more in armaments, we have to deal with defence policy. but these are not the real problems of the citizens. you promise citizens permanent austerity, poverty, homelessness, cuts in health, cuts in education, and yet you have to increase spending on what? in the armament. it seems to me, mr president, that this european union is tragically heading for a future from which there is no return, namely destruction. the only thing missing from the agendas of the european council is the famous scene in the james bond films: this project will self-destruct in five seconds.
mr president, the december council must take decisive steps towards the completion of the banking union, because the effective establishment of a single supervision of the banks of the participating countries is under way and this single supervision can only be followed by a single european resolution structure with uniform rules for the allocation of losses to the creditors of the banks and with recourse to the common resolution fund financed by all the banks, depending on the risk they introduce into the system. of course, national interests must be taken into account, the principle of proportionality must be applied, but the system must be unique. but it is a difficult time to ask citizens to trust europe more and there are lessons to be learned from the crisis. the first is that the intergovernmental method does not work, it has not worked in solving the sovereign debt problem, it cannot work in the contractor arrangements that the council has spoken of and, in the case of the banking union, it would be intolerable if the different political weights of the states were to define the destinies of the banks, the conflicts of interest in this case would be obvious. the second lesson is that it has to be the banks that finance their resolution by sparing the taxpayers. this implies the setting up of a single robust fund and the use of a credit line to make the fund operational from the moment it is set up. finally, let us remember that the third leg of the project is missing: citizens do not understand that a european banking union with a single supervisor, a single resolution does not have a single and common deposit guarantee. it was the deposit guarantee that america, the united states of america, chose to organize the return of the citizens' confidence after the great depression. they created the federal deposit insurance company for that, the name explains what it's for, the fdic. and the powers of this institution have just been strengthened to respond to the 2008 crisis. parliament is ready to negotiate with the council, it is important that the council ensures that this banking union will not be another step towards exacerbating the economic and political power imbalances within the euro area, and also exacerbating the disillusionment of the citizens.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the following: i think it's fundamental at this point that europe has an effective common defence and security policy, that it really has that policy, but that's not easy, as we saw in the syrian crisis, as we saw, for example, in the libyan crisis, where european countries are quite divided and have even presented different positions in the international community, and so i think it's important that we strengthen this core. to that end, i think we could begin the process of cohesion of a defence policy with certain paramilitary areas or those which are alongside the defence industry. for example, it is not understood that there is no very strong civil protection unit for natural disasters such as fires, floods and earthquakes, in which there could already be a paramilitary unit, and it is not understood that the external borders of the union, in the case of the mediterranean, are now very clear, do not already have a european military force to defend them. these are two very specific areas in which we could try out a european defence concept. i think it is extremely important that this should also be done in coordination with our american partners. it is not by chance that they are urging europe to invest more in defence, it is because they obviously have other concerns in the global space today too. but we should take advantage of this incentive to strengthen europe's financial position in defence matters to create a genuine european defence policy and to make use of the infrastructure that has already been set up, namely the british and french military capabilities, in which, for example, in the case of the intervention in mali, or now in the central african republic, we should also be able to finance this effort in some way so that it is not just these two countries that contribute to this end. it is precisely with these kinds of small steps that i think we can create a true european defence community.
mr president, look at lampedusa and look at the spiralling insecurity in libya, to see the eu in deep political crisis; not just unable to get its act together but its member states actually acting in rivalry, putting europe’s security at risk and failing to uphold even the humanitarian obligation to save lives in danger at sea. energy, cyber and maritime threats, including organised crime and terrorism threats, are not being adequately addressed by the council, which despite the rhetoric is not investing in the industrial and technological base necessary to build an autonomous and common security and defence policy – just the opposite. look at my country, portugal, dismantling the strategic viana do castelo shipyards. look at the strategic energy production and distribution sectors, put by the tracker privatisation programme under the control of the chinese communist party. defence, security and national budgets are being blindly cut in total dis-coordination. fake offsets are rife in corrupt defence procurement contracts. crucial military capacities are being destroyed. look at mali, look at the central african republic. france had to move in fast and alone. do you want more glaring evidence that the eu council and the commission are failing the csdp, are failing europe’s security?
in writing. - i welcome this report because of the importance it attaches to a subject of the utmost importance, namely the counterfeiting of the euro. it is important to anticipate potentially damaging consequences for the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. the pericles programme has undoubtedly played an important role in this process. the commission proposal is not the most appropriate and this report is to guide it in maximising the money allocated to it.
in writing. - the euro remains a prime target for organised crime groups involved in counterfeiting currency, both inside and outside europe. the international dimension of the threat of counterfeiting the euro requires supranational coordination to deal effectively with it. the pericles programme is thus an action programme which responds to the need to continue the surveillance, exchange, training and technical assistance actions necessary for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting by providing a stable framework for the planning of member states' programmes. since its adoption in 2001, it has helped to maintain a high level of cooperation between member states and with third countries, leading to reduced levels of euro counterfeiting and the regular detection of illegal reprographies and printing workshops, with the consequent arrest of counterfeiters. the new programme will cover the period 2014-2020 and is expected to have an overall budget of more than eur 7 million. as with other programmes, in the context of the multiannual financial framework, the regulatory framework for this programme has been simplified, administrative burdens have been reduced, the preparation of applications by the competent national authorities has been facilitated, and their use in the relevant third countries has been facilitated.
in writing. − the pericles 2020 programme is to run for a period of seven years and aims to contribute to the protection and safeguarding of the euro against counterfeiting and associated fraud, in particular through the constant dissemination of the results of the activities supported by the programme. increasing transnational cooperation on counterfeiting protection is one of the measures envisaged for member states or countries with the highest euro counterfeiting rates, supporting and complementing the actions of member states which have adopted the euro as the single currency and assisting the competent national authorities. the programme provides co-financed financial support for measures to exchange and disseminate information through workshops, meetings, seminars, training, traineeships and exchanges of staff of the competent national authorities, in particular on methodologies for the control and analysis of the economic and financial impact of counterfeiting of currency, databases of early warning systems, research methods and scientific assistance. the recipients are competent services involved in detecting and combating counterfeiting, staff of information services, representatives of national banks, mints, commercial banks and other financial intermediaries, specialist lawyers and members of the judiciary connected with this field. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the counterfeiting of the euro is obviously a serious crime and its link to organised crime must be taken into account when assessing the economic and social impact of counterfeiting on the lives of citizens. large-scale counterfeiting has potentially damaging consequences for the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. however, the euro is not a currency that is subject to significant counterfeiting practices, largely due to its design and the existing structures at national and community level that control and combat counterfeiting. the pericles programme has played an important role in this process to date. this well-established programme has played a leading role in disseminating best practices in the fight against counterfeiting, thus contributing to the safeguarding of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. - the counterfeiting of the euro is obviously a serious crime and its link to organised crime must be taken into account when assessing the economic and social impact of counterfeiting on the lives of citizens. large-scale counterfeiting has potentially damaging consequences for the european economy and the stability of the currency itself. however, the euro is not a currency that is subject to significant counterfeiting practices, largely due to its design and the existing structures at national and community level that control and combat counterfeiting. the pericles programme has played an important role in this process to date. however, the current commission proposal for the new action programme on exchange, assistance and training for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (the pericles 2020 programme) contains definitions that are too vague in certain areas. as such, this report aims to develop the proposal by guiding the programme towards maximising the use of the funds allocated to it. i agree with the solutions put forward and therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the pericles programme has been developing a framework of actions aimed at protecting the euro against counterfeiting. regardless of the success of its implementation, the legal basis on which it is based will expire at the end of 2013. the commission has therefore taken advantage of the expiry of the programme established by council decision 2001/924/ec to put forward a proposal to replace the pericles programme and to improve it in certain respects. i believe that the counterfeiting of the euro has very high economic and social repercussions and that all efforts to improve the protection of the euro against counterfeiting and associated fraud should be supported by parliament and the council. this report continues the action needed to protect the euro against counterfeiting, which is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − the pericles 2020 programme is to run for a period of seven years and has the express objective of contributing to the protection and safeguarding of the euro against counterfeiting and associated fraud, in particular through the constant dissemination of the results of the activities supported by the programme. increasing transnational cooperation on the protection of the euro inside and outside the union is one of the measures envisaged for member states or countries with the highest euro counterfeiting rates, supporting and complementing the actions of member states that have adopted the euro as the single currency. the programme provides co-financed financial support for measures to exchange and disseminate information through workshops, meetings, seminars, training, traineeships and exchanges of staff of the competent national authorities, in particular on methodologies for the control and analysis of the economic and financial impact of counterfeiting of currency, databases of early warning systems, research methods and scientific assistance. the recipients are the competent services involved in detecting and combating counterfeiting, staff of information services, representatives of national banks, mints, commercial banks and other financial intermediaries, lawyers and members of the judiciary. we voted yes.
in writing. - i approve this report. the report accepts the european commission's proposal, which is indeed appropriate, and proposes that it be adopted at first reading as it stands if no amendments are made on the commission's initiative. all european policies, if they are to be designed and implemented in the best possible way, need reliable statistical and economic information on the economic, social and environmental situation in the eu and its various components at national level, but also at regional level, because it is at this level, by virtue of the proximity it requires, that the best solutions are drawn up.
in writing. − the production and use of reliable statistics at european level is essential for the pursuit of informed and assertive policies in favour of the well-being of its citizens. this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality. the commission proposal for this regulation provided for a financial allocation of eur 299.2 million for the five years of the programme, which was accepted by the council and the european parliament. however, the european parliament stressed that negotiations on the legislative proposals for the multiannual programmes would be completed after agreement on the respective financial frameworks for 2014-2020. this regulation therefore sets out the financial envelope for 2013 and invites the commission to submit a legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council setting out the financial envelope for the period 2014 to 2017, following the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european parliament has approved this text, endorsing the proposal of the european commission, which i also support.
in writing. − the production and use of reliable statistics at european level is essential for the pursuit of informed and assertive policies for the well-being of its citizens. this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality. the commission proposal for this regulation provided for a financial allocation of eur 299.2 million for the five years of the programme, which was accepted by the council and the european parliament. however, the european parliament stressed that negotiations on the legislative proposals for the multiannual programmes would be completed after agreement on the respective financial frameworks for 2014-2020. this regulation therefore sets out the financial envelope for 2013 and invites the commission to submit a legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council setting out the financial envelope for the period 2014 to 2017, following the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european parliament has approved this text, endorsing the proposal of the european commission, which i also support.
in writing. − the production and use of reliable statistics at european level is essential for the pursuit of informed and assertive policies for the well-being of its citizens. this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality. the commission proposal for this regulation provided for a financial allocation of eur 299.2 million for the five years of the programme, which was accepted by the council and the european parliament. however, the european parliament stressed that negotiations on the legislative proposals for the multiannual programmes would be completed after agreement on the respective financial frameworks for 2014-2020. this regulation therefore sets out the financial envelope for 2013 and invites the commission to submit a legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council setting out the financial envelope for the period 2014 to 2017, following the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european parliament has approved this text, endorsing the proposal of the european commission, which i also support.
in writing. − this report draws attention to the need for a revision of the legal framework for european statistics to meet the needs and challenges created by the latest developments in the global economy. the rapporteur says that the main objective of this update is to strengthen the management of the european statistical system, in order to safeguard its credibility and to respond adequately to the need to obtain more data in the framework of the so-called economic governance. to this end, the idea of safeguarding the independence of the national official statistics, coordination between eurostat and the national official statistical offices, the fight against statistical manipulation, etc. is reinforced. while we agree that statistical data are important and should be in the service of a knowledge of reality, this report continues to reflect the intention of the european statistical programme to produce data which can be selected for policy objectives in economic governance and complained about. moreover, european statistics would need to be revised in order to reflect more accurately the current socioeconomic situation.
in writing. − reliable, comparable and effective statistics are vital for evidence-based decision-making and for the rigorous implementation of european union policies. in this regard, i voted in favour of the amendment of regulation (eu) no 99/2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for the following reasons. the production and use of reliable statistics at european level is essential for the pursuit of informed and assertive policies in favour of the well-being of its citizens. this regulation lays down legislation on this subject, since information on the economic, social and environmental components and on the various components of the national and regional functioning of the eu is essential for its correct understanding and for politicians and citizens to have transparent access to the status quo of european reality. the commission proposal for this regulation provided for a financial allocation of eur 299.2 million for the five years of the programme, which was accepted by the council and the european parliament. however, the european parliament stressed that negotiations on the legislative proposals for the multiannual programmes would be completed after agreement on the respective financial frameworks for 2014-2020. this regulation therefore sets out the financial envelope for 2013 and invites the commission to submit a legislative proposal to the european parliament and the council setting out the financial envelope for the period 2014 to 2017, following the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. − european statistics are vital for europe to be a reality understood by public opinion and for democratic participation by citizens. the implementation of european policies requires reliable statistical and economic information on the situation in the union. this proposal for a regulation provides for the financial framework for the four years of the european statistical programme 2013-2017, which are covered by the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. a financial allocation of eur 299.2 million has been proposed for the five years of the programme to provide the means for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics during the period in question.
in writing. − this report draws attention to a review of the legal framework for european statistics justified by the need to meet the challenges created by the latest developments in the global economy. the rapporteur says that the main objective of this update is to strengthen the management of the european statistical system in order to safeguard its credibility and to respond adequately to the need for more data in the framework of economic governance policy in the european union. while we agree that statistical data are important and should be in the service of a knowledge of reality, this report continues to reflect the intention of the european statistical programme to produce data which can be selected with political objectives associated with those who run the european institutions and the governments who defend them. we do not agree with the use of european statistics to define criteria for measuring the indicators set out in the so-called budgetary consolidation, legitimising and supporting policies which serve to punish member states and destroy public services and workers' rights.
in writing. - i approve this report which goes along with the draft council decision to ask the member states to ratify convention no 189 on domestic workers of the international labour organisation. it is important that after this process they take steps to ensure decent working conditions with social rights, preventing abuse, violence and child labour in domestic work.
in writing. - there are over 2.6 million domestic workers in the european union, the vast majority of whom are migrant women. the specific characteristics of domestic work make it vulnerable and unprotected, and these workers are often victims of discrimination. the international labour organisation's convention no 189 on domestic workers stipulates that states that ratify it must take measures to ensure decent working conditions with social rights to prevent abuses in domestic work. the european parliament, taking into account that some aspects of this convention fall within the competence of the european union, gave its favourable opinion to the member states for ratification of this convention as soon as possible. the international labour organisation convention calls in particular for the fixing of a minimum age for domestic workers, the guarantee of decent living and working conditions, the existence of a written employment contract transmitted to the worker before he goes to the country where he will work and the right to benefit from the minimum wage system if it exists in the host country. for the reasons i have given, i have supported this report.
in writing. − this recommendation for the ratification of the 2011 international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189) is of the utmost importance. most of these workers work in the informal sector. eurostat data estimate that there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, 89% of whom are women and half of whom are migrants. domestic work is one of the most unprotected and invisible jobs, given its isolated and individual character. it is therefore often difficult for domestic workers to obtain information about their rights, to organise themselves in associations and trade unions representing their interests and thus to be more protected in the defence of their labour and social rights. domestic work is generally characterized by precariousness, by the absence of a contract of employment. according to the ilo, in many cases domestic workers are victims of low wages, excessively long hours, lack of a weekly rest day and sometimes physical, mental and sexual abuse, or restrictions on their freedom of movement. ilo research also shows that worldwide only 10% of all domestic workers are covered by general labour legislation to the same extent as other workers.
in writing. - according to eurostat, there are estimated to be around 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, 89% of whom are women and half are migrants. domestic work is one of the most unprotected and invisible jobs, so it is difficult for domestic workers to inform themselves about their rights, to organise themselves in associations and unions representing their interests and thus to protect themselves in defending their labour and social rights. the international labour organization's convention no. 189 on domestic workers, which was adopted in 2011 and entered into force on 5 september, states that states that ratify it must take measures to ensure decent working conditions with social rights, preventing abuse, violence and child labour in domestic work. the adoption of this report is the first step towards enabling member states to sign this convention and thus defend the labour rights of domestic workers.
in writing. − the international labour organisation's convention no 189 on domestic workers was adopted in 2011 and entered into force on 5 september. this convention states that states that ratify it must take measures to ensure decent working conditions with social rights, preventing abuse, violence and child labour in domestic work. the european commission presented on 21 march 2013 a proposal for a council decision authorising member states to ratify the convention (com (2013) 0152), which is necessary as the convention contains aspects falling within the competence of the eu. the report is intended to provide parliament's contribution to the progress of the process. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the ratification of the convention by the member states.
in writing. − the 2011 international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189) was adopted in 2011 and entered into force in september 2013. its main objective is to guarantee a set of principles and rights for domestic workers. ilo convention no 189 thus requires the protection of domestic workers who, being often women and migrant women, are in situations of great vulnerability and are often victims of discrimination and various types of abuse which constitute serious violations of human rights. for these reasons i have voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the convention expresses as its main objective the enhancement of domestic workers, establishing, among other guarantees: the recognition of the importance of domestic workers to the economy, the adoption of measures by the signatory states, which respect, promote and apply the fundamental principles and rights of labour (freedom of association, freedom of trade union and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, effective abolition of child labour), the guarantee that domestic workers are informed about their working conditions in an appropriate and understandable manner and, where possible, by means of a written contract. we have some concerns: we know that there is trafficking in human beings, and in particular trafficking in women, not only from third countries to the eu but also between eu countries. we therefore believe that states should pay particular attention to the monitoring of contracts concluded in their countries, particularly by private employment agencies which employ people from other countries to work as domestic workers. it is essential to bring this debate into the public sphere, to make visible, to value and to dignify the important work of these workers. we have voted in favour of this report of our own, which is in line with the council's authorization of the member states to ratify the convention.
in writing. - i support this report because it is in the interest of both parties, the eu and armenia, to work together more permanently and fruitfully. european neighbourhood policy (enp) countries should participate in certain union programmes and agencies to promote reform, modernisation and transition in their neighbourhood. in particular, armenia has been actively participating in the enp since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. i therefore understand that the conclusion of this protocol will allow the gradual opening of certain union programmes to armenia or a strengthening of armenia's participation in these programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, improve people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation and strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. − this report concerns the participation of the republic of armenia in union programmes, following its express request in april 2012. the protocol includes a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in european union programmes. it includes provisions that the type of protocols with european neighbourhood policy countries usually contain. as such, participation in each of the programmes requires the drawing up of a memorandum of understanding which must be signed by both parties. the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening of certain european union programmes to armenia or for the strengthening of armenia's participation in those programmes. despite our well-known reservations about these memoranda, we hope that this process will result in a sovereign affirmation of armenia's legitimate options, and that these will be in accordance with the needs and aspirations of its people. we have, however, the greatest doubts.
in writing. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. in addition, armenia has been actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. this protocol comprises a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes and includes the provisions normally contained in such protocols with the enp countries. the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening of certain union programmes to armenia or an enhancement of its participation in those programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, and will improve people-to-people contacts and cooperation.
in writing. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. in addition, armenia has been actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. the conclusion of this protocol will allow for the gradual opening of certain union programmes to armenia or an enhancement of its participation in those programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, improve people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, and strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement. in view of the above, and in agreement with the objectives, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the republic of armenia expressed its interest in participating in union programmes in april 2012. the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and the republic of armenia in this case comprises a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in these programmes. the participation requires a memorandum of understanding and armenia will be expected to contribute financially to the programmes in which it will participate, these burdens being clearly stated in the memorandum, which is subsequently signed by both parties. it is an opportunity to establish new cultural, educational, environmental and scientific links as well as to enhance people-to-people contacts and cooperation between the union and the republic of armenia.
in writing. − this report concerns the participation of the republic of armenia in union programmes, following its express request in april 2012. the protocol comprises a framework agreement on the general principles governing the participation of armenia in eu programmes and includes provisions which the type of protocols with enp countries usually contain. as such, participation in each of the programmes requires the drawing up of a memorandum of understanding which must be signed by both parties. the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening of certain european union programmes to armenia or for the strengthening of armenia's participation in those programmes. we believe that there should be no political or economic constraints on the conclusion of these agreements.
in writing. - i approve, because the report approves the conclusion of the agreement aimed at improving the relationship between the eu and the french republic, as regards the community of saint-barthélemy, in the field of taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation.
in writing. − the territorial collectivity of saint-barthélemy is an integral part of the french republic, but it ceased to be part of the european union on 1 january 2012, when it ceased to be an outermost region of the european union and became an overseas territory. in view of the change in status of this island and in order to continue to protect the interests of the union, in particular in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, it was considered necessary to ensure that the provisions of the european union legislation on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments continue to apply to the community of saint barthélemy. negotiations for an agreement between france and the eu were launched in 2012 to ensure the above. the european parliament now supports the terms of the same agreement, considering it essential and in the interest of european citizens that the terms of these directives be applied in this territory, as in the rest of french territory. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the territorial collectivity of saint-barthélemy is an integral part of the french republic, but it ceased to be part of the european union as of 1 january 2012, when it ceased to be an outermost region of the european union and became an overseas territory. in view of the change in the status of this island with regard to the eu and in order to continue to protect the interests of the union, in particular in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, it was considered necessary to ensure that the provisions of the european union legislation on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments continue to apply to the community of são bartolomeu. negotiations for an agreement between france and the eu were therefore launched in 2012 to ensure the above. the european parliament now supports the terms of the same agreement, considering it essential and in the interest of european citizens that the terms of these directives be applied in this territory, as in the rest of french territory. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. − the territorial collectivity of saint-barthélemy is an integral part of the french republic, but ceased to be part of the european union on 1 january 2012, when it ceased to be an outermost region of the european union and became an overseas territory. in view of the change in the status of this island with regard to the eu and in order to continue to protect the interests of the union, in particular in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, it was considered necessary to ensure that the provisions of the european union legislation on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments continue to apply to the community of são bartolomeu. negotiations for an agreement between france and the eu were therefore launched in 2012 to ensure the above. the european parliament now supports the terms of the same agreement, considering it essential and in the interest of european citizens that the terms of these directives be applied in this territory, as in the rest of french territory. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. - the island of saint barthélemy ceased to be an outermost region when it gained the status of an overseas country and territory and ceased to be part of the european union. in order to safeguard the eu's interests in the face of this change, france has to conclude the necessary agreements on behalf of saint barthélemy with the european union, in particular for eu legislation on the taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. to this end, account should be taken of legislative developments in these areas, so that the arrangements applicable to saint-barthélemy are identical to those applicable in mainland france. the agreement provides that the european commission has, with regard to the collectivity of saint-barthélemy, the same obligations as those laid down in directives 2011/16/eu and 2003/48/ec, as well as in other related legal instruments adopted by the council, which aim to facilitate administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states, while the french republic and the other member states apply the directives and measures they have adopted to implement them. these are voluntary and sovereign decisions of the french republic which must be respected.
in writing. − by virtue of european council decision 2010/718/eu of 29 october 2010, the territorial collectivity of the island of são bartolomeu ceased to be an outermost region of the union, when it acquired the status of an overseas country and territory as from 1 january 2012. the decision states that france has undertaken to conclude the necessary agreements to ensure that the interests of the union are protected when the amendment is implemented. the authorisation is specifically aimed at an agreement between the french republic, acting on behalf of saint barthélemy, and the european union providing for the application to saint barthélemy of union legislation on taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this proposal for the following reasons. the territorial collectivity of saint-barthélemy is an integral part of the french republic, but ceased to be part of the european union on 1 january 2012, when it ceased to be an outermost region of the european union and became an overseas territory. in view of the change in the status of this island with regard to the eu and in order to continue to protect the interests of the union, in particular in the fight against cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion, it was considered necessary to ensure that the provisions of the european union legislation on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and on the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments continue to apply to the community of são bartolomeu. negotiations for an agreement between france and the eu were therefore launched in 2012 to ensure the above. the european parliament now supports the terms of the same agreement, considering it essential and in the interest of european citizens that the terms of these directives be applied in this territory, as in the rest of french territory.
in writing. − as of 1 january 2012, the territorial collectivity of the island of são bartolomeu ceased to be an outermost region of the union, as it acquired the status of an overseas country and territory. this report presents an agreement between the french republic, acting on behalf of saint barthélemy, and the european union providing for the application of eu legislation on the taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation to the territory in question.
in writing. − the island of saint barthélemy ceased to be an outermost region of the union when it acquired the status of an overseas country and territory on 1 january 2012, and therefore ceased to be part of the european union. in order to safeguard the eu's interests when this change takes effect, france must conclude the necessary agreements on behalf of saint barthélemy with the european union, in particular for the union's legislation on the taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. to this end, account should be taken of legislative developments in these areas, so that the arrangements applicable to saint-barthélemy are identical to those applicable in mainland france. the agreement provides that the european commission has, with regard to the collectivity of saint barthélemy, the same obligations as those provided for in directives 2011/16/eu and 2003/48/ec, as well as in other related legal instruments adopted by the council, which aim to facilitate administrative cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this proposal which accepts the terms on which the commission is presenting the new period of application of the authorization for spain to apply exemptions or reductions of the tax to certain products manufactured locally in the canary islands. the new regional aid guidelines for 2014-2020, adopted by the commission in 2013, will enter into force on 1 july 2014. in this regard, it is justified to extend the period of application of this decision, to which the report refers, by a period of six months, so that the expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the guidelines, and it is proposed that the decision be amended accordingly.
in writing. − the canary islands economy has been affected by the global economic crisis, with an impact on travel reduction, culminating in an increase in the unemployment rate from between 10.4% and 12% in the period 2001-2007 to over 26% in 2009. council decision 2002/546/ec, adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu, authorises spain to apply, until the end of 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax on certain locally produced products in the canary islands, measures designed to strengthen local industry. spain has requested an extension of the period of application to the european commission in view of the scale of the difficulties affecting the canary islands. given that there is an agreement on the renewal of these special rules for the period 2014-2020, which will enter into force on 1 july 2014, the commission considers that it is justified to extend the period of application of the decision for a period of six months, so that the expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the new guidelines. this will allow the economy to continue to develop and provide more stable employment in this outermost region. we voted in favour. we reiterate that the other outermost regions, in particular the azores and madeira, must not be discriminated against.
in writing. − the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union which apply to the outermost regions of the eu, of which the canary islands are part, do not, in principle, allow any difference between the taxation of local products and the taxation of products from spain or other member states. article 349 tfeu does, however, provide for the possibility of introducing specific measures in favour of these regions, due to the existence of permanent handicaps which have an impact on the economic and social situation of the outermost regions. the 2009 global economic crisis, by its impact on the reduction of travel, had severe consequences for the canary islands' economy, with unemployment rising from a rate of between 10.4% and 12% in the period 2001-2007 to 26.2% in 2009, which is why i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards its period of application.
in writing. − council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002, adopted on the basis of article 299 (2) of the ec treaty (now article 349 tfeu), authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax on certain locally produced products in the canary islands, setting out the reasons for the adoption of the specific measures, designed to strengthen local industry by improving its competitiveness. the deadline was subsequently extended until 31 december 2013. the commission notes that the new guidelines on regional aid for 2014-2020, adopted by the commission in 2013, will enter into force on 1 july 2014, and that the commission considers it justified to extend the application period for a period of six months, so that the expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the new guidelines. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 adopted on the basis of article 299 (2) of the ec treaty (now article 349 tfeu) authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax on certain locally produced products in the canary islands, stating the reasons for the adoption of the specific measures designed to strengthen local industry and improve its competitiveness. i am in favour of extending regional aid for a period of six months so that the expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the guidelines, and it is proposed that the decision be amended accordingly.
in writing. − the canary islands economy has been affected by the global economic crisis, with an impact on travel reduction, culminating in an increase in the unemployment rate from between 10.4% and 12% in the period 2001-2007 to over 26% in 2009. council decision 2002/546/ec, adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu, authorises spain to apply, until the end of 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax on certain locally produced products in the canary islands, measures designed to strengthen local industry. we voted in favour. we reiterate that the other outermost regions, in particular the azores and madeira, must not be discriminated against.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. as called for in the report, it is important that the eu and the member states honour their commitments under the paris declaration, the accra programme of action and the busan global partnership on effective development cooperation. i believe that the best way of achieving all these objectives is to have political will and to eliminate bureaucracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eu donor coordination in the field of development aid, as it advocated the need for a new instrument for the coordination of development aid in the form of a regulation to make member states' contributions more effective and efficient.
in writing. - this is an own-initiative report with a legislative proposal. the report calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal for a development aid donor coordination instrument to promote complementarity between the european union and its member states and to improve the effectiveness of eu donor coordination. the aim of the regulation should be to codify and strengthen mechanisms and practices that ensure better complementarity and effective coordination of development aid, and its scope should provide an appropriate response to the question of increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of eu development aid. the rapporteur believes that this is the appropriate way to ensure a balanced management of aid and to avoid geographical concentration (avoidance of aid concentration in the so-called favourite countries and aid orphans). the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of children and young people, and for the establishment of a european network of information centres for the protection of children and young people. we won't accept it.
in writing. − the cost of non-europe report shows that up to €800 million could be saved annually by cutting transaction costs if the eu and member states focused their aid efforts on fewer countries and activities, and that an additional €8.4 billion could be saved annually if country allocations were fully coordinated and poverty reduction made the main objective. more efficient implementation of development aid will result in more effective assistance on the ground. more effective eu and member state coordination through, inter alia, joint programming, including the allocation of tasks at national level, would also bring greater rationalisation in the use of the various support programmes that the eu makes available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal which contains recommendations to the commission on the coordination of eu donors in the field of development aid. among the proposals, i highlight the call for more effective eu and member state coordination through, inter alia, joint programming, including the distribution of tasks at national level in order to avoid overlapping actions and high transaction costs, as well as the call for a careful analysis of the specific needs of each beneficiary country, while ensuring that the projects financed are incorporated into the local economy, benefiting those most in need.
in writing. − this report presents measures to strengthen the mechanisms and practices of coordination in development aid by the european union (eu). these need to be more effective and certain principles need to be respected, such as ownership the union and member states should respect the leadership of the partner country; harmonisation common modalities should be applied at national level; as well as predictability of funds and transparency and mutual cooperation. it also recognises that the effectiveness of such aid is being undermined by a lack of coordination between member states and the eu. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. i am in favour of greater european coordination at all levels and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report calls on the commission to present a legislative proposal for a development aid donor coordination instrument to promote complementarity between the european union and its member states and to improve the effectiveness of eu donor coordination. the aim of the regulation should be to codify and strengthen mechanisms and practices that ensure better complementarity and effective coordination of development aid, and its scope should provide an appropriate response to the question of increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of eu development aid. they are relevant and seemingly justified objectives. if they are not mixed up with free market objectives, as the rapporteur does.
in writing. − i approve the appointment of this new member to the court of auditors of the european union, as he has fulfilled all the curricular requirements and has clearly and adequately answered the questions put to him by the questionnaire which was made as part of the process of acquaintance with the candidate.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i have therefore voted in favour of the name of phill wynn owen.
in writing. - all the data presented and which underpinned my decision indicate that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been met, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the appointment of phil wynn owen as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i approve the appointment of this new member to the court of auditors of the european union, as he has fulfilled all the curricular requirements and has clearly and adequately answered the questions put to him by the questionnaire which was made as part of the process of acquaintance with the candidate.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name of alex brenninkmeijer.
in writing. - all the information submitted and on which my decision was based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been met, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the appointment of mr alex brenninkmeijer as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i approve the appointment of this new member to the court of auditors of the european union, as he has fulfilled all the curricular requirements and has clearly and adequately answered the questions put to him by the questionnaire which was made as part of the process of acquaintance with the candidate.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i have therefore voted in favour of the name of henri grethen.
in writing. - all the information submitted and on which my decision was based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been met, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the appointment of mr henri grethen as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i approve the appointment of this new member to the court of auditors of the european union, as he has fulfilled all the curricular requirements and has clearly and adequately answered the questions put to him by the questionnaire which was made as part of the process of acquaintance with the candidate.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. the candidate submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name nikolaos milionis.
in writing. - all the information submitted and on which my decision was based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been met, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the appointment of mr nikolaos milionis as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i approve the appointment of this new member to the court of auditors of the european union, as he has fulfilled all the curricular requirements and has clearly and adequately answered the questions put to him by the questionnaire which was made as part of the process of acquaintance with the candidate.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. the applicant submitted her cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, having presented sufficient arguments to justify her appointment to the court of auditors to perform her duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name danièle lamarque.
in writing. - all the information submitted and on which my decision was based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been met, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the appointment of danièle lamarque as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i approve the appointment as chairman of the supervisory board of the european central bank of the european union, as you have fulfilled all the curricular requirements and have clearly and adequately answered the questions put to you by the questionnaire which was made as part of the candidate's due diligence process.
in writing. − as part of the process of building the banking union, including the operationalization of the european supervisory mechanism, the ecb submitted a proposal to the european parliament on 22 november 2013 for the appointment of danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for a five-year term. the candidate for this post, danièle nouy, was heard by the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the european parliament, where they had the opportunity to question the candidate for the post in question. the commission has also asked the candidate in advance for some written questions, and her cv has been made available to all members as part of the process of democratic legitimisation of this new eu body. in view of the candidate's extensive experience in the area of banking supervision, her knowledge of the subject, her willingness to engage in a transparent dialogue with parliament and her approach and perspective on the challenges of european banking supervision, danièlle was accepted by the majority of members in the chamber. i support the appointment of this candidate, as i consider her profile to be appropriate to the role she will have to play as chair of the supervisory board, contributing definitively to the safety and soundness of the european banking system.
in writing. - the european central bank has proposed the appointment of ms danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank. this new body has recently been set up and will be responsible for the important area of european banking supervision, with the main task of preventing further crises in the banking sector. only with good supervision can we avoid further failures in this sector in the future, failures which lead to serious financial crises, which in turn lead to sovereign debt crises, and which ultimately lead to severe austerity measures affecting european citizens. the candidate must have her appointment approved by the european parliament, which, through its committee on economic and monetary affairs, will hold a hearing to assess her profile for the post she will hold. the commission has assessed mrs danièle nouy's credentials positively and has found that she is suited to the post she will hold. i leave you with my best wishes for mrs danièle nouy's enormous success in the difficult task that lies ahead of her.
in writing. the ecb has submitted to parliament a proposal for the appointment of danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for a five-year term. considering that the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament has assessed the credentials of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down by european legislation, i voted in favour of this report on the appointment of danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb.
in writing. - i approve the report. the importance of external action means that we must establish rules of procedure for our external action, especially now that we have been operating the external action service for some time, with a view to improving our presence outside the union in defence of our values. in this respect, the report is positive in that it presents proposals aimed, for example, at a clearer financial framework, so that we can optimise the impact of our actions.
in writing. − by framing all the financial instruments for external action, the essential objective of this regulation is to deepen the eu's role as a global actor, i.e. to provide it with more means and concrete objectives for external intervention. this regulation aims to tie the action of the member states to a single policy and action which violates principles of international law and the un charter, as well as principles laid down in some national constitutions - in particular the constitution of the portuguese republic and its article 7, which establishes the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states and cooperation with all other peoples for the emancipation and progress of humanity. the participation of third countries in the programmes financed is conditional on satisfactory progress towards the agreed objectives. this is when countries are called upon to participate in eu programmes, because in many cases what is being sought is the funding of the action of political actors (ngos, foundations, parties...) who are available to promote the interests of the eu's great powers. it is the eu's action that clearly denounces the hypocritical use of the promotion of the defence of human rights and democracy in the world.
in writing. − the european union should adopt a wide range of instruments covering the range of policies related to external action, the implementation of which requires specific common rules and procedures. the european union is committed to supporting the implementation of the lisbon strategy, including the implementation of the lisbon strategy, the lisbon strategy and the lisbon strategy. the union has to use the resources available in the most effective way in order to maximise the impact of its external action. this will require ensuring coherence and complementarity between the union's instruments for external action and creating synergies between the union's external financial instruments and its other policies. this should also entail the mutual reinforcement of the programmes provided for under these.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down common rules and procedures for the implementation of the union's instruments for external action. i would stress in this new proposal the mid-term evaluations which should include the assessment of the added value of each instrument, the possibilities for simplification, internal and external coherence, including complementarity and synergies between the instruments and the maintenance of the relevance of all objectives. as well as the contribution of the measures to the coherence of the union's external action and, where relevant, to the union's priorities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − as in regional policy, so in foreign policy the union has established common rules and procedures for the application of the instruments of external action, simplifying the regulatory process and increasing the participation of civil society, small and medium-sized enterprises and non-governmental organisations. simplification for more efficient implementation and enhanced synergies between instruments. i am in favour of adopting this report which lays down a set of common rules for the development cooperation instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights, the european neighbourhood instrument, the stability instrument, the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear security, the instrument for pre-accession assistance and finally the partnership instrument.
in writing. − by framing all the financial instruments for external action, the essential objective of this regulation is to deepen the eu's role as a global actor, i.e. to provide it with more means and concrete objectives for external intervention. this regulation aims to tie the action of the member states to a single policy and action which violates principles of international law and the un charter, as well as principles laid down in some national constitutions - in particular the constitution of the portuguese republic and its article 7, which establishes the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other states and cooperation with all other peoples for the emancipation and progress of humanity. the participation of third countries in the programmes financed shall be conditional on satisfactory progress towards the achievement of the agreed objectives. this is when countries are called upon to participate in eu programmes, because in many cases what is at stake is the funding of the action of political actors who are willing to sell out sovereignty and the interests and aspirations of their people to further the interests of the eu's great powers and monopolies. it is the eu's action that clearly denounces the hypocritical use of the promotion of the defence of human rights and democracy.
in writing. - i support this report because it is directly related to some of the most important tasks of the european union, in particular direct support for external action. some of the key objectives are to preserve peace, prevent conflict, strengthen international security and help people, countries and regions affected by natural or man-made disasters. but also important are crises and conflicts affecting countries and regions, and other factors such as terrorism, organised crime, gender-based violence, climate change, cybersecurity issues and security threats from natural disasters, insofar as they pose a risk to stability and security.
in writing. − the objectives of the instrument for stability and peace converge with all other financial instruments for external policy and have in common that they are a mechanism for promoting external interference. this regulation states that its objective is to prevent conflict, consolidate peace and address global and transregional threats, to act in a specific context of crisis emergencies, to restore the conditions essential for the proper implementation of the eu's external policies and actions. what is the framework for conflict prevention or the possible emergence of conflicts? the existence of this regulation is already a violation of the principles laid down in international law and the charter of the united nations and the role of the un. the latter, like the other financial instruments, defines a set of political and financial mechanisms that demonstrate the eu's neo-colonial drift, when its objective is clearly to ensure the existence of political regimes that allow the eu to dominate its markets and natural resources or to use its geostrategic position. as with most other instruments, we voted against.
in writing. − this regulation establishes an instrument contributing to stability and peace which provides direct support to the union's external policy in 2014-2020 by increasing the effectiveness and coherence of the union's actions in the fields of conflict prevention, crisis preparedness, crisis response and peacebuilding, as well as in addressing global and transregional threats. i hope that the funds allocated to this instrument will be used effectively and that it will fulfil the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a contributory instrument for stability and peace providing direct support for the union's external policy in 2014-2020 by increasing the effectiveness and coherence of union action in the fields of conflict prevention, crisis preparedness, crisis response and peacebuilding, and addressing global and transregional threats.
in writing. - the conflicts that plague the world have indirect, and often direct, repercussions on global stability and security. these, with very different causes, usually result from unstable governance and high levels of poverty. on the other hand, we have natural and man-made disasters, organized crime, climate change. common problems in a world where national boundaries are fading. a coordinated response by international organisations and states is therefore needed. this instrument for stability aims to respond urgently to problems of a global nature, while supporting actions in the field of conflict prevention and peacebuilding. i am voting in favour of this external action instrument which aims to implement the security/development axis.
in writing. − the objectives of the instrument for stability and peace are convergent with all other financial instruments for external policy and it has in common that it too is a mechanism for promoting external interference. this regulation states that its objective is to prevent conflicts, consolidate peace and address global and transregional threats, to act in a specific context of crisis emergencies, to restore the conditions essential for the proper implementation of the eu's external policies and actions. in practice, what all this means is that if all the other instruments fail in their mission to ensure the denial of the free determination of peoples and when the economic interests of the eu monopolies are at stake, then this instrument will come into play. what is the framework for conflict prevention or the possible emergence of conflicts? the existence of this regulation is already a violation of the principles laid down in international law and the charter of the united nations and the role of the un. this, like the other financial instruments, defines a set of political and financial mechanisms that demonstrate the eu's neocolonial drift. we voted against it.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it approves and improves the proposal to establish a european neighbourhood instrument to support the european union's external policy. it is about strengthening relations with neighbouring countries and providing the eu and its partners with the benefit of supporting their democratization processes where they are most needed.
in writing. − what the european union wants from its neighbourhood is progressive integration into the eu's internal market, better access to its markets, including through comprehensive and deepened free trade areas, promoting the development of the private sector, ensuring the implementation of agreements that place neighbouring countries in a buffer role for the entry of immigrants, accentuating their strength. the alleged support defined through this instrument is subject to the fulfilment of the objectives set. in practice, compliance with the conditionality attached to this support places the countries involved in this partnership totally subordinate to the interests of the eu monopolies. the economies of the countries concerned are more fragile and in a context of opening up their markets and promoting free foreign investment in industry and agribusiness, the trend will be towards the destruction of their productive capacity, particularly of smes, small and mediumsized farmers, small fisheries - the dominant business structure in these countries - to the substitution of local production by imports, to the pressure on workers to lower wages and lose rights, which is the well-known factor of competitiveness. this is in addition to interference in the internal affairs of these countries with the aim of ensuring political stability for these economic interests.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) with a view to moving towards the creation of an area of shared prosperity and good neighbourliness encompassing the union and the countries and territories listed in the annex to this regulation (hereinafter referred to as the partner countries), through the development of privileged relations based on cooperation, peace and security, mutual accountability and the sharing of the universal values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in accordance with the treaty on european union. i hope that the funds allocated to this instrument will be used effectively and that it will fulfil the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. − the union shall promote, develop and consolidate the values of liberty, democracy, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for them, and the principles of equality and the rule of law, on which it shall build, through dialogue and cooperation with third countries, in compliance with the principles of international law. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european neighbourhood instrument and regulating the financing under this regulation which should be guided by these values and principles as well as by the commitments undertaken by the union under international law, taking into account the relevant policies and positions of the union.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy (enp), established in 2004, and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) aim to create a circle of good neighbourliness with prosperous and stable neighbouring countries through political association and deepened economic integration. the enp is composed of 16 partners: algeria, armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, egypt, georgia, israel, jordan, lebanon, libya, the republic of moldova, morocco, the occupied palestinian territories, syria, tunisia, ukraine and in some specific cases russia. this enp has been widely praised for the progress and success it has achieved in the partner countries. several projects have brought considerable development. the amendment aims to improve certain aspects, in particular the application of the more-for-more principle, more transparency in financial allocation and the programming process, results-oriented action programmes, and greater participation in cross-border programmes. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it a key element of european foreign policy.
in writing. - with neighbours like the eu, one must be very careful... because what the eu wants from its neighbours is gradual integration into the eu's internal market, better access to its markets, including through comprehensive and deepened free trade areas, the development of the private sector, and the implementation of agreements that put neighbouring countries in a buffer role for immigrants, while forcing them to take measures to prevent their peoples from entering an eu that is increasingly emphasising its strength. the alleged support defined through this instrument is subject to the fulfilment of the objectives set. in practice, compliance with the conditionality attached to this support places the countries involved in this partnership totally subordinate to the interests of the eu monopolies. the economies of the countries concerned are more fragile and in a context of opening up their markets and promoting free foreign investment in industry and agribusiness, the trend will be towards the destruction of their productive capacity, particularly of smes, small and medium-sized farmers, small fisheries, towards the substitution of local production by imports, towards pressure on workers to lower wages and lose rights, which is the adjustment factor for competitiveness.
in writing. − i approve the report, given that council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 expires on 31 december 2013. in order to enhance the effectiveness of the union's external action, a framework for the planning and delivery of external assistance during the period 2014-2020 should be maintained. the union's enlargement policy should continue to be supported by a specific financial instrument and ipa ii should therefore be established.
in writing. − as the title of the report itself indicates, this instrument aims at implementing economic and social policies so that the candidate countries are aligned with the eu's rules, standards, policies and practices. the policies and measures financed by this instrument include those which have contributed and continue to contribute to the destruction of the productive sectors of countries such as portugal. we are talking about their progressive alignment with the rules of the internal market, the stability pact, the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives of which are to continue to privatise even more companies, extending this process also to public services, and to liberalise strategic sectors of the economy. in other words, all the measures which have led to the destruction of labour and social rights, which have given the monopoly to profitable companies in key sectors - an example which is repeated in all the applicant countries - have destroyed and continue to destroy every year thousands of smes, small and mediumsized farms and small fisheries. and they are now forced to play the dirty role of implementing the eu's immigration policy, serving as buffer zones against the entry of immigrants, repressing them, criminalizing them and filtering them according to the interests of each moment in the eu.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) to provide assistance to beneficiary countries in the pre-accession phase of the eu to enable them to adopt and implement the political, institutional, legal, administrative, social and economic reforms they need to undertake to conform to the values of the union and to progressively align themselves with the union's rules, standards, policies and practices with a view to accession to the union. i hope that the funds allocated to this instrument will be used effectively and that it will fulfil the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) which sets out the thematic priorities for assistance, of which i would highlight the respect of the principle of good administration and economic governance. interventions in this area should aim at: strengthening public administration, including the professionalisation and de-politicisation of the public service, the incorporation of meritocratic principles and the guarantee of adequate administrative procedures; strengthening the capacity to strengthen macroeconomic stability and support progress towards a viable market economy and a more competitive economy; supporting participation in the union's multilateral budgetary surveillance mechanism and systematic cooperation with international financial institutions on key economic policy objectives and strengthening public financial management.
in writing. − the pre-accession instrument aims to provide technical and financial support to countries for their future accession by progressively aligning their institutions and economies with the union's internal policies, acquiring the acquis communautaire and improving their readiness to face global challenges. the current candidate countries are the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, iceland, montenegro, serbia and turkey. the european union has a long-term strategy for the region. apart from iceland, all the countries mentioned have very low socioeconomic levels, which is why this instrument of assistance continues to play a central role. it is therefore important to make the stabilisation and association agreements more results-oriented through more effective monitoring. i am voting in favour of this report on the preaccession instrument.
in writing. − this instrument aims at implementing economic and social policies so that the candidate countries align themselves with eu rules, policies and practices. the policies and measures financed by this instrument include those which have contributed and continue to contribute to the destruction of the productive sectors of countries such as portugal. we are talking about its progressive alignment with the rules of the internal market, the stability pact and the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives of which are to continue privatising even more companies, extending this process also to public services, and liberalising sectors of the economy which are fundamental to the lives of workers and people. in other words, all the measures which have led to the destruction of labour and social rights, which have given the monopoly to profitable companies in sectors which are fundamental to ensuring the independence and sovereignty of the countries - an example which is repeated in all the applicant countries - have destroyed and continue to destroy every year thousands of smes, small and mediumsized farms and small fisheries. and they are now forced to play the dirty role of implementing the eu's immigration policy, serving as buffer zones against the entry of immigrants, filtering them according to the interests of each moment in the eu.
in writing. - i vote in favour. this solution is in line with the committee of the regions' opinion. this is an important step for the union to continue developing partnerships with third countries. it is therefore an important support for the european union's external policies, helping to extend development cooperation policies. the union must make use of all the know-how it has acquired over the years in this field.
in writing. − this report is very clear in defining its objectives: to promote and serve the interests of the eu and mutual interests. and what are those interests? implement the international dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, improve access to third country markets and boost trade, investment and business opportunities for european companies, while removing barriers to market access and investment. and what are the target countries? countries that are playing an increasingly prominent role in world affairs, including foreign policy, the economy and world trade. the regulation also sets out the objective of promoting opportunities for european goods and services, especially in areas where the eu has a competitive advantage. this instrument is a concrete example of the use of public funds with the clear aim of promoting private interests, particularly the private profits of the large monopolies. the policies of destruction of social and labour rights and public services, of increased exploitation and the looting of national resources are inseparable from the objectives of this regulation, since it is evident here that the aim is to bring all means together in order to revive the eu's global competitiveness in this period of crisis, further accentuating the process of concentration and centralisation of capital.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries to promote and serve the interests of the eu and mutual interests. the partnership instrument shall support measures that respond in an effective and flexible manner to objectives stemming from the union's bilateral, regional or multilateral relations with third countries and to challenges of global concern, or that ensure the proper follow-up of decisions taken at multilateral level. i hope that the funds allocated to this instrument will be used effectively and that it will fulfil the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries, which constitutes a new and complementary instrument of direct support for the external policies of the european union, extending cooperation partnerships and political dialogue to areas and matters beyond development cooperation, following the experience gained with industrialized countries and high-income countries and territories. this new instrument, innovative in its scope and objectives, should create a positive climate for deepening relations between the european union and the relevant partner countries and promoting the vital interests of the union.
in writing. − this partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries replaces the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories. however, the emergence of emerging economies such as brazil, india and mexico and the strategic agreements the union intends to sign show that there was a need for an instrument that would cover these countries, go beyond development cooperation and respond to global challenges such as climate change, cooperation programmes in innovation and technology. the evolution of the geopolitical chessboard and the status quo require that actors adapt. the union has done so and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report is very clear in defining its objectives: to promote and serve the interests of the eu and mutual interests. and what are those interests? implement the international dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, improve access to third country markets and boost trade, investment and business opportunities for european companies, while removing barriers to market access and investment. and what are the target countries? countries that are playing an increasingly prominent role in world affairs, including foreign policy, the economy and world trade. the regulation goes even further when it sets out the objective of promoting opportunities for european goods and services, especially in areas where the eu has a competitive advantage. this instrument is a concrete example of the use of public funds with the clear aim of promoting private interests, particularly the private profits of the large monopolies. the policies of destruction of social and labour rights and public services which are imposed on countries like portugal, increasing the exploitation of workers and peoples are inseparable from the objectives of this regulation.
in writing. - the european union today is a factor of degradation and even a threat to democracy and to many of the human rights enshrined in its universal declaration - which is often read in a restrictive (not innocent) way. there is a great deal of hypocrisy in this proposal, but above all there is the intention to use universal values and achievements which reflect human progress to alter its liberating sense, instrumentalising them through processes of interference. it is a mechanism clearly designed to promote collaborative opposition - in the form of ngos, foundations, political parties and others - available to defend policies, regimes and reforms that defend the interests of eu monopolies. this instrument is also hypocritical because the eu will continue to support dictatorial regimes, as it did, for example, in egypt and tunisia, as long as they are useful to it, as long as they can continue to extract its resources and exploit its labour force. and he'll withdraw his support when the people rise up. in fact, what is often done is to prevent the right of peoples to self-determination and to prevent them from choosing the democratic path most consistent with their aspirations.
in writing. − this regulation establishes a european instrument for democracy and human rights, under which the union shall provide assistance for the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, and for respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. i hope that the funds allocated to this instrument will be used effectively and that it will fulfil the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide. since the objectives of this regulation, namely the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of their scale and effects, be better achieved at union level, the union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives.
in writing. − this financial instrument contains the founding principle of the european union project, in which it is intended that internal actions be exported to the external context of the union's policy towards third countries. thus, as referred to in article 2 of the treaty on european union, the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the principles of democracy and human rights govern the union's external action and must therefore be a sine qua non for relations with third countries. this instrument, which supports civil society and human rights organisations as well as election observation missions, is now intended to support ad hoc actions through direct grants and/or low value grants to support unforeseen events such as the arab spring.
in writing. - why should the eu create a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world when it is itself increasingly an attack on democracy, political and democratic rights, labour and social rights, and the freedoms and guarantees of citizens? there is an intention to use universal values and achievements that translate human progress to alter its liberating sense, instrumentalizing them through processes of external interference. it is a mechanism clearly designed to intervene wherever there are countries and peoples who assert and defend their sovereignty, their interests and aspirations, by promoting collaborative opposition in the form of ngos, foundations, political parties and so-called human rights defenders. this instrument is also hypocritical because the eu will continue to support dictatorial regimes, as it did, for example, in egypt and tunisia, as long as they are useful to it, as long as they can continue to extract its resources and exploit its labour force. and he'll withdraw his support when the people rise up. the fundamental aim is to prevent the peoples' right to self-determination and to prevent them from exercising their human rights and choosing the democratic path most consistent with their aspirations.
in writing. - i vote in favour. development cooperation is an important action of the european union which justifies the creation of this new instrument. in this context, i would like to stress that the fight against poverty must remain the main objective of our development policy. at the same time, it should uphold democracy, the rule of law, the universality, indivisibility and respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and compliance with the principles of the united nations charter and international law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a financing instrument for development cooperation, the main objective of which is to combat poverty. i believe that the commitment made makes positive proposals, in particular with regard to ensuring a human rights-based approach and sustainable development, including measures to support climate change mitigation and adaptation.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the development cooperation financing instrument for the next multiannual financial framework, which is part of the eu's development cooperation policy and constitutes one of the instruments of support for the eu's external policies. this instrument aims to ensure just principles such as the development of basic social services such as health and education services, the promotion and protection of children's rights or the promotion of gender equality. however, some of our concerns about this instrument remain: the over-emphasis is still on a competitive local private sector and on a harmonious and progressive integration into the world economy, understood here as the opening up of these countries' markets, leaving them at the mercy of the great powers and their multinationals - in other words, subordinate, dependent, peripheral integration. we also believe that the objective of development policy should not be to defend the interests of the eu but rather the interests of the most vulnerable people on the planet. there must be coherence between the declared objectives of development cooperation policy and the various sectoral policies of the eu.
in writing. − this regulation is part of the union's development cooperation policy and constitutes one of the instruments in support of the european union's external policies. the fight against poverty remains the main objective of the european union's development policy. the union's action on the international scene should be guided by the principles which have inspired its own creation, development and enlargement and which the eu seeks to promote throughout the world: democracy, the rule of law, universality, indivisibility and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and observance of the principles of the united nations charter and international law. i hope that the funds allocated to this instrument will be used effectively and that it will fulfil the objectives for which it was set up.
in writing. − the union's development policies must take full advantage of the european union's added value, combining the weight of the member states and adding their joint political will to achieve the full influence that the union can achieve. this is more than just a question of the efficient use of financial resources. in fact, coordination and an intelligent division of labour between the member states and the commission will lead to better use of funds, which should be a priority. the present instrument is in line with this principle and i have voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the text of the proposal for a financing instrument for development cooperation, on greater complementarity and better harmonisation and alignment with partner countries, and coordination of procedures, both between the union and its member states and in relations with other donors and development actors, to avoid overlaps and omissions and to ensure cost-effective aid delivery.
in writing. − the development cooperation instrument (dci) supports developing countries with policies aimed at eradicating poverty and improving the quality of life of their people. it aims to implement the millennium development goals, which focus on poverty eradication, sustainable economic and social development, and the promotion of regional and global integration. icd assistance is based on geographical and thematic programmes. the scope of support for this instrument is extended by the creation of the pan-african programme, which aims to implement the objectives of the eu-africa strategy. this amendment to the icd also focuses on differentiated assistance, more adapted to the reality of each region/country, with a reinforcement of conditionality and mutual accountability, and the flexibility of geographical programmes. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the development cooperation financing instrument for the next multiannual financial framework, which is part of the eu's development cooperation policy and constitutes one of the instruments of support for the eu's external policies. the over-emphasis is still on a competitive local private sector and on a harmonious and progressive integration into the world economy, understood here as the opening up of these countries' markets, leaving them at the mercy of the great powers and their multinationals - in other words, subordinate, dependent, peripheral integration. we also believe that the objective of development policy should not be to defend the interests of the eu but the interests of the most vulnerable people on the planet.
in writing. - i approve this report because of the importance it has played so far in supporting workers who have been affected by one of the most serious consequences of the crisis, unemployment. it should be recalled that one of the three priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is precisely inclusive growth, which involves empowering people, investing in skills, fighting poverty and modernising labour markets and training and social protection systems, to help people anticipate and manage change, and build an inclusive, cohesive society. overcoming the harmful effects of globalisation also requires job creation within the union and a firm policy to support growth.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established in 2006 (with a planned duration of 2007 to 2013) with the aim of enabling the european union to show its solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in international trade patterns due to globalisation and to support their rapid reintegration into the labour market. there is a certain cynicism on the part of those who are keenly pursuing the very structural changes which are at the root of the trail of redundancies and impoverishment. we voted against this operation to whitewash the relocations of multinationals, considering it unacceptable, stating that more than palliatives, what was needed was a change in the policies that sustain this capitalist globalisation, avoiding unemployment. it is now intended to extend this fund for the period 2014-2020. the commission has proposed extending the scope of the fund to farmers. a way of legitimising the potentially devastating consequences of the free trade agreements the eu is signing around the world - which have fortunately been rejected by the european parliament. however, the scope has been broadened and some other criteria have been changed. regardless of these amendments, the reasons which underpinned our vote against in 2006 are again entirely valid.
in writing. − the egf was set up to provide the eu with an instrument to show solidarity with, and support, workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation, and was subsequently extended to include workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. i think it will be important to keep this instrument active, because it can be important in combating unemployment, because it supports workers when they are unemployed, and helps them to increase/reconvert their skills or to seek independent activity.
in writing. − this fund was set up to provide the union with an instrument to show solidarity with and support workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. it was subsequently extended to include workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. in this context, it is indeed regrettable that the crisis derogation has not been renewed because of a blocking minority in the council, despite strong support for its continuation from the commission and the european parliament. during 2009-2010, 82% of applications to the fund were based on the crisis derogation criteria and, in the same period, 10% of workers made redundant in the eu accessed the fund. the commission's proposal to include an unexpected crisis in the scope of the regulation should therefore be welcomed, as it allows the fund to respond to the real needs of workers made redundant. i voted in favour of this report, stressing that some of the innovations in this fund still meet the concerns and recommendations highlighted by parliament in the mid-term evaluation of the fund and should therefore add value to its operation.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is an instrument of solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade and as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. however, it needs to be simplified, making its use more accessible to the various member states. to this end, the report proposes that the commission and the national bodies be responsible for the management of the fund, ensuring that member states have the opportunity to access advice and guidance where justified. more flexibility should also be introduced in the amendment of the list of personalised services in order to improve the effectiveness of the fund by providing it with a greater and faster response capacity. this evaluation of the egf indicated that the various measures which were co-financed by the fund appeared to have helped to avoid a worsening of the current unemployment situation. on this basis, the egf can be a vital contributor to the eu's return to growth, which is why i voted in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. the result of the trilogue on this fund is clearly unsatisfactory. the 60% co-financing will prevent countries with the greatest economic difficulties from accessing the fund. the reduction from eur 500 million to eur 150 million per year, while increasing the scope of the fund (self-employed and young people), will severely limit the fund's intervention. it is also subject to macro-conditionality, which is an added injustice for countries like portugal. finally, as we have always said, we believe that the fund legitimizes the policy of redundancies, when what workers need is public support to keep them in their jobs.
in writing. - i vote in favour. tax fraud and tax evasion are among the most serious scourges afflicting the world and europe. institutions and leaders cannot ignore the need for action. any serious and firm progress in this area will have implications for the public accounts of the states, their financial capacity to implement measures of a social nature, to ease the tax burden and to revive the economy. only if the eu acts together, with courage, by exchanging information automatically for all forms of revenue, will it bring justice, recover money and hopefully engage the rest of the world in what is a global priority. what we really need is action, not more statements.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion has recently been a subject of discussion and concern among european leaders, given the amount of money lost to the public purse each year and the inefficiencies and distortions that such diversions cause in the functioning of the real economy (it is estimated that each european citizen loses €2000 each year due to this problem). in this context, the commission has proposed to extend the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation to other assets such as dividends, capital gains, other sources of income, etc. the automatic exchange of information is a sometimes controversial subject, but it is generally agreed that it improves the efficiency of tax collection. the eu's objective is thus to move towards a more comprehensive system of information exchange at the global level, and to make the system of information exchange between member states compatible with the rules of the facta information exchange system agreed with the us, as well as the g8/g20 and oecd initiatives. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion has recently been a subject of discussion and concern among european leaders, given the amount of money lost to the public purse each year and the inefficiencies and distortions that such diversions cause in the functioning of the real economy (it is estimated that each european citizen loses €2000 each year due to this problem). the european leaders have therefore committed themselves to this serious fight and the commission has proposed extending the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation to other assets such as dividends, capital gains, other sources of income, etc. the automatic exchange of information is a sometimes controversial subject, but it is generally agreed that it improves the efficiency of tax collection. the eu's objective is thus to move towards a more comprehensive system of information exchange at the global level, and to make the system of information exchange between member states compatible with the rules of the facta information exchange system agreed with the us, as well as the g8/g20 and oecd initiatives. parliament also stressed the need for the eu to play a leading role in this area, acting on behalf of its members. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. - contrary to what is stated in the european commission proposal, which this report does not substantially change, the need to implement more effective administrative cooperation to combat fraud and tax evasion would not necessarily have to pass through the solutions proposed here, other solutions being possible to be found in a multilateral framework. there is a clear need for greater exchange of information, in particular on dividends, capital gains, other financial income and account balances paid, guaranteed or held by a financial institution for the direct or indirect benefit of a beneficial owner who is a natural person resident in another member state. this extension of the automatic exchange of data will, however, continue to prove ineffective in combating tax fraud and evasion, as long as the free movement of capital and tax havens are maintained. however, it is the power of each country's tax administrations that is being weakened and with it, and because of eu policies, the possibility of implementing systems that ensure the increasingly needed tax fairness.
in writing. − the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation is a very important mechanism for the effective fight against tax evasion, by increasing the list of categories subject to automatic exchange of information in the european union. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report for the following reasons. european leaders have committed themselves to a serious fight against tax fraud and evasion, and the commission has proposed extending the automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation to other assets such as dividends, capital gains, other sources of income, etc. the automatic exchange of information is a sometimes controversial subject, but it is generally agreed that it improves the efficiency of tax collection. the eu's objective is thus to move towards a more comprehensive system of information exchange at the global level, and to make the system of information exchange between member states compatible with the rules of the facta information exchange system agreed with the us, as well as the g8/g20 and oecd initiatives. parliament also stressed the need for the eu to play a leading role in this area, acting on behalf of its members.
in writing. − on 12 june 2013, the european commission presented a proposal proposing to extend the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations in the european union (eu) as part of the intensified fight against tax evasion. i agree with this report that it allows for an automatic exchange of information on data protection and privacy, which represents a reduction in tax fraud and evasion by some economic operators. i would also point out that with this proposal, dividends, capital gains, all other forms of financial income and account balances will be added to the list of categories which are subject to automatic exchange of information in the eu. this will pave the way for the eu to acquire the most comprehensive system of automatic exchange of information in the world.
in writing. - contrary to the european commission's proposal, which the ep majority did not substantially amend, the need to implement more effective administrative cooperation to combat tax fraud and evasion would not have to involve a further gross violation of the sovereignty of each country, with the extension of automatic data transfer between tax administrations, which could be done under bilateral or multilateral agreements between countries. there is a clear need for greater exchange of information, in particular on dividends, capital gains, other financial income and account balances paid, guaranteed or held by a financial institution for the direct or indirect benefit of a beneficial owner who is a natural person resident in another member state. this extension of the automatic exchange of data will, however, continue to prove ineffective in combating tax fraud and evasion as long as the free movement of capital in the eu internal market and tax havens are maintained. however, it is the power of the tax administrations of each country that is being weakened and with it the possibility of implementing systems that ensure the increasingly necessary tax fairness.
in writing. - i vote in favour. it is in the interests of community security that a system such as the one proposed should be established. it is desirable that the best legal framework be given to the regulation dealing with this matter, for the efficient and harmonized implementation of the regulation under consideration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the registration system for carriers of radioactive materials, because it contains proposals to simplify procedures and reduce the administrative burden, while ensuring the highest levels of radiation protection, guaranteeing the protection of the health of workers and the general public.
in writing. the report by mr kovács deals with the proposal for a council regulation establishing a community system for the registration of carriers of radioactive materials. the report aims to replace national declaration and authorisation procedures for carriers of radioactive materials with a single registration system. the application of the regulation should simplify procedures and reduce administrative burdens while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. i think that the criteria should be ensured so that the data models for the issuing of the registration certificate are identical and the registration process is harmonised. at the same time, online guidance should be made available and a dynamic help should be implemented explaining all the required fields. a simplified and transparent registration procedure is essential, while never losing sight of the highest security standards.
in writing. − the regulation relates to basic safety standards on the health protection of workers and the general public by replacing national declaration and authorisation procedures for carriers of radioactive materials with a single, online registration system with less red tape and administrative burden, while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. the proposal under discussion is intended to facilitate transport within the eu and to ensure better monitoring by the competent national authorities, by ensuring that the criteria and data templates for issuing the registration certificate are identical and that the registration process is harmonised. the necessary information, as well as a dynamic help explaining all the required fields and an electronic signature made online are the practical tools to avoid unjustified refusals. a mechanism for the exchange of information between the national authorities of the member states and the registry system will be established in order to facilitate cross-border information and transport. while we consider the overall objectives of this report to be positive, we believe that the registration system should provide the necessary security in terms of the protection of the data made available; be robust and fully operational.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation aims to create a single european system for the registration of carriers of radioactive materials, replacing national systems, thus simplifying administrative procedures while maintaining adequate levels of protection.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to replace national declaration and authorisation procedures for carriers of radioactive materials by a single registration system. the application of the regulation should simplify procedures and reduce administrative burdens while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. i voted in favour because the replacement of these national declaration and authorisation procedures by a single registration system for the transport practice will therefore help to simplify procedures, reduce the administrative burden, remove barriers to entry, while maintaining the high levels of radiation protection achieved.
in writing. − the following report establishes autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, eliminating customs duties on industrial products and improving access for agricultural products to the eu market. it is therefore proposed that wine imports from moldova into the european area be fully liberalized under the autonomous trade preferences scheme. it is necessary to ensure that union assistance in the wine sector through the liberalisation of imports takes effect as soon as possible in order to ensure the continuity of trade flows from moldova.
in writing. − the regulation relates to basic safety standards on health protection of workers and the general public by replacing national declaration and authorisation procedures for carriers of radioactive materials with a single, online registration system with less red tape and administrative burden, while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. the proposal under discussion is intended to facilitate transport within the eu and ensure better monitoring by the competent national authorities, ensuring identical criteria and data templates for the issuing of the registration certificate and that the registration process is harmonised. the necessary information, as well as a dynamic help explaining all the required fields and an electronic signature made online are the practical tools to avoid unjustified refusals. although this is a regulation with a positive practical objective, we are concerned that the registration system does in fact provide the necessary security in terms of the protection of the data made available. we voted yes.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the various transition processes, including popular uprisings, conflict and post-conflict situations, as well as blocked transitions in authoritarian countries, have posed increasing challenges to eu policies in support of human rights and democracy in the world. if we follow what the eu's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2012 tells us, there is a clear need for the eu to continue to design flexible policy responses.
in writing. - there is an increasing need to promote the universality and indivisibility of human rights, understood in a broad and interdependent way - civil and political rights, social, environmental, economic and cultural rights. however, this is not the view taken by the majority of the european parliament in approving this report. on the contrary, i did. the instrumentalisation of human rights and their liberating meaning is transversal to the whole text. the finger is pointed at countries and situations where there is a specific interest, conjunctural or structural, putting pressure and promoting interference through support for oppositions - on different identities and forms - with the aim of creating collaborative regimes with the defence of the interests of the major eu powers and monopolies. the list of countries cited in this resolution is biased by this perspective and coincides with many of those who refuse to dispense with the defence of their sovereignty. would the majority of the european parliament agree to the creation of such mechanisms on a reciprocal basis? obviously not, because the human rights dialogue with third countries is not about the situation in the eu. many human rights have been called into question by eu policies in recent years. this resolution has forgotten to mention it.
in writing. − human rights, democracy and the rule of law are fundamental values of the european union. the european union considers human rights to be universal and indivisible and has promoted their active defence, both within its borders and in its relations with third countries. in 2012, various crises and conflicts put the eu's human rights support policies to the test and confirmed the need for continuity of the values upheld by the eu, and the eu's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world plays a very important role not only at european level but also in the international context. this report advocates the continuity of the eu's human rights policies, drawing attention to the universality of human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the annual report on human rights in the world in 2012 and the european union's policy on the matter, which reiterates its unequivocal opposition to the death penalty and considers the establishment of a universal moratorium with a view to the abolition of the death penalty worldwide to be a central objective of the union's human rights policy.
in writing. − the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2012 demonstrates the need for the eu to continue to develop flexible measures and to spread the union's founding values. but we must achieve a general consensus and strengthened coordination of human rights policy in the eu. political flexibility for exceptional situations must be encouraged in relation to european foreign policy towards third countries. we must not forget that human rights are at the heart of the union's relations with all third countries, including strategic partners, and that is why a firm and consistent approach must be adopted to violations of these rights. it is recommended that the report becomes a tool for communication and discussion of the union's activities in the field of human rights and democracy, as the role of civil society in defending and promoting these values is absolutely crucial for the whole process of raising awareness.
in writing. - there is an increasing need to promote the universality and indivisibility of human rights, understood broadly and interdependently as the acceptance of civil and political rights, but also as social, environmental, economic and cultural rights. it is not, however, with this perspective. on the contrary, i did. the instrumentalisation of human rights and their liberating meaning is transversal to the whole text. the finger is pointed at countries and situations where there is a specific interest, conjunctural or structural, putting pressure and promoting interference through support for oppositions - on different identities and forms - with the aim of creating collaborative regimes with the defense of the interests of the major eu powers and monopolies. would the majority of the ep agree to the creation of such mechanisms in a reciprocal manner? the majority of the ep is showing hypocrisy. why does the list of countries cited in this resolution coincide with many of those which refuse to dispense with the defence of their sovereignty and the defence of the interests and aspirations of their people? why does the eu's arrogance and compliance with us policy on cuba persist in its support for terrorism against that country? we voted against it.
in writing. - i vote in favour. eu competition policy must effectively function as a driving force for the single market. it is important that competition policy controls mergers, removes barriers, abuses of dominant positions, collusive agreements and distortive measures in the field of state aid, for the benefit of the single market, taking into account the evolution of the global economy. in particular, it should take account of the position of the most disadvantaged regions, especially those with permanent disadvantages, such as the outermost regions, and ensure that competition policy also serves to mitigate the effects of these disadvantages.
in writing. − the european commission produces an annual report on competition policy in the eu, which focuses on its legislative activities in this area, state aid, antitrust and merger laws. the european parliament has presented its assessment of the commission's competition activities in the past year in this report, which analyses how competition policy has contributed to resolving the european crisis, to meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to promoting growth, jobs and competitiveness. the work done in combating market distortions is commended, given its importance for the functioning of the internal market, safeguarding fair competition and a competitive and innovative economy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu's external borders. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − every year the european commission produces a report on competition policy in the eu, which focuses on its legislative activities in this area, state aid, antitrust and merger laws. the european parliament's opinion on this report and on the way in which the european commission developed competition policy in the past year is reflected in this text, which i support. it analyses how competition policy has contributed to resolving the european crisis and to meeting the eu 2020 objectives by supporting growth, employment and competitiveness. parliament welcomed the work done to combat market distortions, given their importance for the functioning of the internal market by safeguarding fair competition and a competitive and innovative economy. the report also calls for the introduction of a european regulatory authority to strengthen the role of national authorities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu's external borders.
in writing. − every year the european commission produces a report on competition policy in the eu, which focuses on its legislative activities in this area, state aid, antitrust and merger laws. the european parliament's opinion on this report and on the way in which the european commission developed competition policy in the past year is reflected in this text, which i support. it analyses how competition policy has contributed to resolving the european crisis and to meeting the eu 2020 objectives by supporting growth, employment and competitiveness. parliament welcomed the work done to combat market distortions, given their importance for the functioning of the internal market by safeguarding fair competition and a competitive and innovative economy. the report also calls for the introduction of a european regulatory authority to strengthen the role of national authorities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu's external borders.
in writing. - this report, like others on eu competition policy, is an apology for the single market, the deepening of liberalisation in key strategic sectors of the economy and free movement. the effects of this policy are felt on the skin by the people of the member states with the weakest economies. competition in the single market is inseparable from the destruction of the weakest production systems, from the colonization of national economies by the large foreign economic groups, from the growth of their dependence. we disagree with the internal energy market, the single transport market, the creation of the single european sky, the liberalization of the postal service, all of which are endorsed in this report, which considers that the public sector tends to be against opening up competition in many important economic sectors such as railways, airports, telecommunications and electricity. the rapporteur also ignores the main causes and consequences of the distortion of competition rules, namely: the increasing concentration of enterprises; the transformation of public enterprises into private monopolies with serious social implications, particularly in employment and the price of public services; the abuse of dominant positions by various monopoly groups with unacceptable practices in the social and environmental fields, leading to the dismissal of thousands of workers. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - twenty years after the creation of the single market, many consumers are still severely affected by anti-competitive practices in a large number of economic sectors. these practices sometimes originate in the private sector, as in the case of cartels, but the public sector also tends to be equally opposed to opening up competition in many important economic sectors, such as railways, airports, telecommunications or electricity. although the internal market is improving, much remains to be done to make it a market of perfect competition.
in writing. − every year the european commission produces a report on competition policy in the eu, which focuses on its legislative activities in this area, state aid, antitrust and merger laws. i voted in favour of this opinion of the european parliament on this report and on the way in which the european commission developed competition policy in the past year. i do so because i agree with the analysis of how competition policy has contributed to resolving the european crisis and to achieving the eu 2020 objectives by supporting growth, employment and competitiveness, and with the work done in combating market distortions, given its importance for the functioning of the internal market by safeguarding fair competition and a competitive and innovative economy. i share the concern about the need for stronger supervision and punishment in the public and private sectors, and the possibility of a european regulator that would strengthen the role of national authorities. in the area of state aid, i agree with the warning that private commercial activities such as banking should not be favoured to the detriment of social services which are necessary for the well-being of citizens and the proper financing of the economy.
in writing. - some 20 years after the creation of the single market, many consumers are still severely affected by anti-competitive practices in a large number of economic sectors. sometimes these practices originate in the private sector, as in the case of cartels, but also in the public sector, as in the case of railways, airports or telecommunications. i agree with this report which contributes to a better competition policy, such as merger control, and to the elimination of barriers, abuses of dominant positions and distortive measures in the field of state aid. i would also like to emphasize the importance of credit to smes in europe, which has been aggravated by the economic and financial situation in some countries and by bank restructuring. it is now necessary to provide new credit lines to enterprises so that they can make new investments and contribute to a new phase of economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - i have endeavoured, as shadow rapporteur for the socialist group, to put forward a wide range of proposals and to negotiate with the other political groups solutions which will meet the needs of the outermost regions producing milk and milk products, such as the azores, in the post-quota period. in adopting this report, the european parliament recommends to the commission that special support be given to our regions to ensure the continuity of milk production in a new situation without quotas. parliament also called for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the member states' legislation on the protection of the environment is respected, and called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we now hope that the european commission will take account of the proposals adopted today so that we can successfully overcome this challenge further.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on milk production in mountain areas, lessfavoured areas and the outermost regions, because it contains proposals to ensure the continuity of milk production in these regions in a new non-quota scenario, in particular by providing additional support to dairy farms to cope with the increased transport costs of long-distance transport to markets.
in writing. the report by mr herbert dorfmann deals with the maintenance of milk production in mountain areas, lessfavoured areas and the outermost regions after the end of the milk quota system. the changes introduced with the abolition of quotas in 2015 will see the sector undergo a major change for the first time in 31 years. this substantial change is likely to cause market disturbances in the milk and milk products sector, especially in less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. i believe that in this way we must support small farmers in disadvantaged areas in setting up producer organisations that strengthen their bargaining power, since it is important for these farmers to maintain and develop markets at regional and local level. we must not forget that in these areas milk production is in many cases the only source of income and the local community is heavily dependent on the milk and milk products sector.
in writing. - while this report recognises that the end of the milk quota system threatens the continuity of milk production in some regions, it does not propose the reversal of this decision, as was called for. the milk producers in mountain areas and the outermost regions will be particularly affected, as they suffer from specific constraints arising from their peripherality, strong economic specialisation and natural constraints. we have tabled an alternative motion for a resolution which does not merely propose palliative measures to minimise the impact of the end of quotas. it advocated the maintenance of the existing quota system and its adjustment to the needs of each region and its relative level of installed capacity. the proposal was also rejected by the portuguese members of the psd, cds and ps. these parties are thus demonstrating by their vote that their position in the european parliament is in direct contradiction to the speech they make in portugal to the milk producers, saying that they defend the importance of milk quotas. the situation in the milk sector is inseparable from the liberalisation of the milk sector and the increase in production quotas with a view to their abolition. it is therefore impossible to defend the liberalisation of milk production and at the same time the interests of the producers affected by this policy.
in writing. − the european milk and milk products sector will face a major change with the abolition of quotas in 2015. after 31 years, the dairy sector will have no quotas. this substantial change is likely to cause market disturbances in the milk and milk products sector, especially in less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. in these areas, milk production is in many cases the only source of income and the local community is heavily dependent on the milk and milk products sector. it is therefore essential to analyse the impact of the abolition of the quota system, in particular on less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. the report therefore focuses mainly on the most threatened areas, in order to ensure a decent living for farmers and a future for rural areas, especially since the cap reform has not solved this problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the dorfmann report because the dairy sector is in a state of suspended animation with the inevitable end of the milk quota mechanism and this document draws attention to the enormous difficulties that milk production in the less-favoured, mountainous and outermost regions will face after 2015. i have actively contributed to this report, making several amendments to it, including all 14 which were tabled in the plenary, so that it could take account of the specific features of regions such as the one i am visiting - the azores. in this way, and in line with the report, it is important to guarantee farmers in these regions a stable and well-paid future, in order to prevent depopulation and abandonment of these areas, with the consequent negative consequences at environmental, social and economic level, it being clear that in most cases the production of milk and milk products is the only source of income.
in writing. − in 2015, the european milk and milk products sector will face a major change with the abolition of milk quotas for the first time. it is of the utmost importance that we analyse the impact of this abolition, with particular attention to the less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. for many of these areas, milk production is the only source of income, making the local community heavily dependent on the performance of the dairy sector. this own-initiative report seeks to ensure the livelihoods of farmers and a future for these rural areas. strengthening the bargaining power of producers is only a first step towards this future. i voted in favour of this report because we have to ensure that there are no negative environmental and economic consequences at european level.
in writing. - while this report recognises that the end of the milk quota system threatens the continuity of milk production in some regions, it does not propose to reverse this decision. the milk producers in mountain areas and the outermost regions will be particularly affected, as they suffer from specific constraints arising from their peripherality, strong economic specialisation and natural constraints. the situation in the milk sector is inseparable from the liberalisation of the milk sector and the increase in production quotas with a view to their abolition. it is therefore impossible to defend the liberalisation of milk production and at the same time the interests of the producers affected by this policy.
in writing. - i vote in favour. after the european commission's definition of resilience, it is important to prepare how a country or region can best adapt or recover from a stress or shock situation. in this area, disaster risk education (dre) should be promoted as a key element in achieving such resilience. this should involve risk analysis and management with a view to reducing vulnerability to disasters and encompass activities supporting preparedness, prevention and mitigation at all levels, both local and international.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on resilience and disaster risk reduction in developing countries, which advocates a reinforced coordination of humanitarian and development aid actions, in particular by integrating disaster risk reduction measures into their programmes, focusing on the most vulnerable populations and the most fragile countries, which are normally more exposed to the risks and damage caused by disasters.
in writing. - the report by mr gay mitchell looks at the eu approach to resilience and disaster risk reduction in developing countries: learning from food security crises. i would stress the text of the communication which says: building resilience requires a long-term approach, based on mitigating the causes that lead to crisis situations and building capacities to better manage uncertainty and change in the future. disasters represent a variety of losses. between 1992 and 2012, 64% of the world's population was affected by disasters; 1.3 million people lost their lives (230 675 of them in haiti alone) and losses amounted to 2 000 billion dollars, according to unisdr. we're using 95% of the humanitarian funding. despite the rapid increase in disaster losses, more than 95% of humanitarian funding continues to be spent on disaster response and its consequences, with less than 5% going to disaster risk reduction.
in writing. − the report considers that disaster risk reduction is a key element in achieving resilience. risk analysis and management to reduce vulnerability to disasters; preparedness, prevention and mitigation, both locally and internationally, are indisputably important. the report calls for the integration of resilience measures in both the humanitarian and programming development strands in a post-2015 framework. disasters are unjust. they almost always affect those who have the least, whether countries or people. this should therefore be an important area of development cooperation. the most disaster-prone countries should be the main actor in setting their priorities and strategies. we agree with the rapporteur on this point. the report recognises that chronic food and nutrition insecurity is one of the most important causes of vulnerability to food crises. he acknowledges, not without fault, some of its causes. the rapporteur therefore considers that the eu action plan on resilience should address issues related to food security and resilience to climate change by eliminating unsustainable practices such as dumping of agricultural products and unfair trade rules. in general terms, it seems to us to be correct.
in writing. − the commission defined resilience as the ability of an individual, a household, a community, a country or a region to cope, adapt and recover quickly in the face of stress or shock. building resilience and promoting sustainable development requires a society-wide approach, including local authorities, civil society organisations (csos), citizens and development partners. this report highlights the importance of all actors in building resilience, including local authorities, who can play a key role in coordinating and maintaining a multi-stakeholder, multilateral platform to promote resilience and disaster risk reduction (drr) in the affected region.
in writing. − in october 2012, the commission published the communication entitled 'the eu approach to resilience: learning from food security crises', which aims to guide the eu approach to building resilience and reducing vulnerability in developing countries, especially those subject to crises. the communication states that building resilience requires a long-term approach, based on mitigating the causes that lead to crisis situations and building capacities to better manage uncertainty and change in the future. this communication was followed up by the commission staff working document entitled 'action plan for resilience in crisis prone countries 2013-2020'. i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament calls for a strong integration of resilience measures into development aid and humanitarian aid programming, also recognises the challenges posed by climate change and underlines that adaptation to climate change must be taken into account in resilience initiatives.
in writing. − the following report calls for strong integration of resilience measures into development aid and community support programmes. the aim is to strengthen resilience and reduce vulnerability in developing countries, with a particular focus on those that are subject to crises. disaster risk reduction (drr) is an essential component, encompassing activities that support preparedness, prevention and mitigation at local and international levels. these disasters have huge economic costs for governments and people and prc is a profitable investment here. it calls for a focus on the most vulnerable, poor and marginalised; on strengthening community resilience and promoting sustainable development; and on better coordination of efforts between member states, international organisations, public institutions - including the european parliament - the private sector, ngos and civil society. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important that investment is made in the prc and that more strategies and risk assessments are developed for developing countries.
in writing. − the report considers that disaster risk reduction is a key element in achieving resilience. risk analysis and management to reduce vulnerability to disasters; preparedness, prevention and mitigation, both locally and internationally, are indisputably important. the report calls for the integration of resilience measures in both the humanitarian and programming development strands in a post-2015 framework. the report recognises that chronic food and nutrition insecurity is one of the most important causes of vulnerability to food crises. he acknowledges, not without fault, some of its causes. the rapporteur therefore considers that the eu action plan on resilience should address issues related to food security and resilience to climate change by eliminating unsustainable practices such as dumping of agricultural products and unfair trade rules. we agree.
in writing. - i vote in favour. 80 million people with disabilities live in the european union and have a great need for a physical, intellectual and social environment that is accessible and free from prejudice, without barriers, obstacles or stereotypes that prevent the full enjoyment of their basic human rights and european citizenship. of these 80 million, 46 million are women and girls, who make up 16% of the total female population in the eu and who must have the attention they deserve in this europe that is meant to be inclusive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the situation of women with disabilities in the european union, which aims to combat the discrimination and stereotypes to which they are often subjected. there are more than 80 million disabled people in europe who must be provided with an appropriate physical, social and intellectual environment free of prejudice to enable them to enjoy their rights and participate in all aspects of society. in this way they will be able to acquire gradual autonomy on an equal footing with people who do not suffer from any disability. public authorities should provide quality and specialised public services that allow for unhindered access to transport infrastructure, information and communication technologies, home robotics and online communications. women with disabilities must be able to enjoy fully their right to maternity and to this end equal access to quality public health services with specialist support must be guaranteed. i supported the right to longer maternity leave in view of the additional challenges they face.
in writing. - the report by mrs angelika werthmann focuses on women with disabilities. when we talk about women with disabilities, we must bear in mind that we are talking about citizens, citizens who cannot be defined by their disabilities. every day, they face the same challenges and opportunities as other women; they're friends, daughters, mothers, wives and servants. these women should be recognized for their different kinds of talents, for their competence and for what they bring to our society, which with them gains depth in diversity. i think we must ensure that the life plans of these women are heard and have the same chance of being fulfilled as those of women without disabilities. i also believe that we should promote the work of ngos on women with disabilities given their importance to the state and civil society.
in writing. - this report highlights the special situation of women with disabilities, highlights and lists multiple discriminations in society. the report points out that member states need to do more to help women with disabilities, including in access to quality health services, public services, transport infrastructure, housing and education and the labour market. it calls for an environment free of barriers, obstacles and stereotypes for women with disabilities, so that they can fully enjoy their rights and assume their responsibilities. the report also stresses that disability policies should be integrated into gender policies. it urges the member states to provide training and information for teachers, trainers, senior civil servants and employers. the report also highlights the fact that women with disabilities are at increased risk of gender-based violence, abuse and sexual exploitation and calls on the commission to launch a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women, including the protection of the rights of women with disabilities. we voted in favour.
in writing. - women with disabilities are human beings like the rest of us, who are just not able to do specific things. when we talk about them, we must bear in mind that we are talking about citizens, citizens who cannot be defined by their disabilities. every day, they face the same challenges and opportunities as other women, they are friends, daughters, mothers, wives and employees. they have many kinds of talents, they are competent and they enrich our society, which gains depth in diversity. it is essential to consider this positive contribution, to recognise and promote it, and to ensure that these women's life plans are heard and have the same chance of being realised as those of women without disabilities. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - women with disabilities are not just people who are unable to do specific things. like any woman, they play many roles. they have many kinds of talents, they are competent and they enrich our society, which gains depth in diversity. it is essential to consider this positive contribution, to recognise and promote it, and to ensure that these women's life plans are heard and have the same chance of being realised as those of women without disabilities. this report presents proposals to meet the challenge of actively including women with disabilities in society and enabling them to participate on an equal footing. people with disabilities represent 15% of the european population; one in four europeans has a disabled family member. these figures show the importance of acting in accordance with our best expectations and creating a favourable environment for all citizens of the european union on an equal footing. in any case, i would add, i prefer that the specific issues relating to disabled people be dealt with in an all-embracing way - women and men - that is, with a focus on the people.
in writing. - no one can or should be defined by their disabilities. this report focuses on women with disabilities, reminding us that they are human beings and citizens like any of us and should therefore have the right to lead a life of personal choice and free from social stigma. this requires attention from the beginning of their lives, starting with education, which is fundamental to reducing social barriers. we must also address the problem of structural violence against these women, which can be tackled through training courses and awareness campaigns, so as to prevent prejudice from spreading. a real effort must be made to actively instill women with disabilities in society, allowing for a level playing field. the rapporteur also stresses the urgent need to implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in order to make the guaranteed rights of people with disabilities a reality.
in writing. - this report highlights the special situation of women with disabilities, highlights and lists multiple discriminations in society. the report considers that member states need to do more to help women with disabilities, including in access to quality health services, public services, transport infrastructure, housing, education and the labour market. it advocates the creation of an environment free of barriers, obstacles and stereotypes for women with disabilities, so that they can fully enjoy their rights and assume their responsibilities. the report also highlights the fact that women with disabilities are at increased risk of gender-based violence, abuse and sexual exploitation and calls on the commission to launch a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women, including the protection of the rights of women with disabilities. many of the amendments we tabled were adopted or included in several compromise amendments, giving importance to the impact of the economic crisis and the devastating consequences of austerity measures for people with disabilities. the report calls for this issue to be integrated into the activities of the eeas, a position which seems hypocritical to us, since this instrument is mainly used to intervene in sovereign countries. we voted in favour, however.
in writing. - i vote in favour. the retail sector is undoubtedly important, accounting for 11% of the eu's gdp and more than 15% of total employment. however, it should always be borne in mind that there is a need for a fair distribution of income along the food chain, in particular by enabling fair support for producers.
in writing. - the report by mr cornelis de jong deals with the european action plan for the retail sector for the benefit of all operators involved retail services account for 11% of the eu's gdp and 15% of total employment. i welcome the development of instruments that facilitate access for consumers to transparent, easily understandable, comparable and reliable information on the prices, quality and sustainability of goods and services. as far as labelling is concerned, we must be aware of the danger of the proliferation of labels and labelling requirements. i therefore support simplification, in particular by bringing together various aspects of social and environmental sustainability under a single label, reducing differences between national mandatory labelling requirements. at the same time, i believe that we must ensure that small suppliers have the right to form producer groups without being penalised by the national competition authorities.
in writing. − the economic crisis has had a strong impact on the retail sector, especially on smaller and independent shops. it is on this basis that the report attempts to point out some measures to boost this sector. improving access to finance, especially for smes in wholesale and retail trade, and not raising vat are recommendations that we will follow up on. however, we cannot depart from the central and cross-cutting objective of this report: the consolidation of the single market and the recovery of europeans' confidence in the internal market. the retail sector is important for achieving this objective. the report supports the creation of a permanent group for the competitiveness of the retail sector; the promotion of public-private partnerships for the payment of rents and for ensuring clean, safe and accessible shopping areas in urban centres; the deepening of the digital single market. to achieve this objective, the commission should apply the infringement procedure to member states that do not properly apply the rules of the internal market. the real reasons for the crisis facing the sector are not pointed out. the deepening of the internal market will only aggravate this situation, with the continuing weakening of the most vulnerable economies.
in writing. − retail services are of significant economic importance, accounting for 11% of eu gdp and 15% of total employment. in the eu, much emphasis has been placed on the retail market as it is considered to be one of the main pillars of the single market. in most member states, consumer confidence has reached an extremely low level. consumers delay their purchases or else target the lowest prices. in some member states, vat rates have been increased, making it even more difficult for retailers to consume and survive. the general situation in the retail sector in the eu is a cause for concern, although there are also exceptions. we must therefore draw up a european action plan for this sector, to give it a new impetus, because the retail sector can undoubtedly be one of the engines of economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − retail services are of significant economic importance, accounting for 11% of eu gdp. the social value of the retail sector is as important as its economic value. i voted in favour of this report which sets out a european action plan for the retail sector for the benefit of all the operators involved, calling on the commission to come forward with proposals to ensure the right of small suppliers to set up producer groups without being penalised by the national competition authorities, who have limited themselves to assessing the importance of these groups on the basis of national production alone.
in writing. the european union has attached great importance to the retail market, considering it to be one of the main pillars of the single market. however, there are still some obstacles for professionals in the sector, such as restrictions on establishing themselves in other member states, lack of competitiveness and too high operational barriers. the action plan in question seeks to address the identified shortcomings through strategies to improve competitiveness and increase economy and performance in the sector. the report also highlights e-commerce as an opportunity for retailers to develop multimedia sales strategies. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must support the retail market and the professionals in the sector.
in writing. − the economic crisis has had a strong impact on the retail sector, especially on smaller and independent shops. it is on this basis that the report attempts to suggest some measures to boost this sector. improving access to finance, especially for smes in the wholesale and retail trade, and the non-increase in vat by member states are measures we can follow up. however, we cannot depart from the central and cross-cutting objective of this report: the consolidation of the single market and the recovery of europeans' confidence in the internal market. the retail sector is important for achieving this objective. examples include support for the creation of a standing group for the competitiveness of the retail sector, the promotion of public-private partnerships for the payment of rents and for ensuring clean, safe and accessible shopping areas in urban centres, and the deepening of the digital single market. the real reasons for the crisis facing the sector are not pointed out - austerity policies, which impose low wages and lead to reduced consumption by households. the deepening of the internal market will only aggravate this situation with the continued weakening of the most vulnerable economies, with the privatisation of key sectors of the economy.
mr president, the report has an undeniable merit. it makes clear who is responsible for the ongoing civilizational decline in europe and also makes clear what their strategy for the future is. the right and social democracy together, as always, define a legal and institutional architecture which seeks not only to consolidate internal austerity by bringing the budgetary treaty into the legal order of the european union, but also to create the added conditions to enforce its application. they go so far as to propose that future amendments to the treaty can be brought into force even against the will of one fifth of the member states and to propose the generalization of the reverse majority principle, a brilliant idea of mrs merkel. referendum, it is remarkable how the referendum has become a forbidden word, it is evident the escalation in the confrontation with democracy itself. an escalation that can be stopped, that must be stopped by the struggle of the workers and peoples of europe. the forthcoming elections to the european parliament will undoubtedly be an important moment in this struggle.
i must say, mr president, that this report is very interesting, not so much because of the solutions it presents, but more so because it is a road map for the problems we have to solve in the framework of multilevel governance, not so much in the context, as is very well explained here, of the relationship with the national authorities, so it is not so much the division between the different european, regional and even national levels of the european union, but it is precisely the ability to have differentiated integration, which is how we should essentially deal with this issue. and here i think there is a very interesting road map, particularly with regard to economic issues, budgetary issues, fiscal issues and even, as has been said, social issues. there are aspects where even this logic can be very well integrated. we have spoken here this morning about the question of the common defence and security policy, because the idea of differentiated integration has great potential here and should also be applied there. so there's a common matrix here. two points i would like to draw attention to, however: the first is that i am somewhat disappointed with the idea of not making the eurogroup a truly formal council in the context of the european union. i think it was important to make this approximation now and then to give the appropriate translation in the european parliament, and there is another aspect, which is well underlined here, but which i think is very important to make clear, namely that for us the idea of governance with differentiated integration is not an objective, it is an instrument. the aim of the european union is that all the member states should be fully integrated at the same speed. the only reason for differentiated integration is that it does not exclude certain states, but that we must maintain the incentives for full integration into all the instruments of the union of 28 states and not simply accept the idea of integration at different speeds or differentiated integration. the risk of such a report, which is highly useful, is precisely that someone will realise the opposite, that we want differentiated integration, when what we want is differentiated integration as a path to full integration.
first of all, i would naturally like to congratulate mr alain lamassoure on this report, which i consider to be exemplary in many respects and which has therefore been one of the members with whom i have had the pleasure of working and with whom i have learned the most in this house and i do not want to leave it out of my mouth at this point. that said, what does it look like? it seems to me that we might have gained a little more, although this report is already a great step forward, a great improvement, in terms of the constitutional perspective and the separation of powers, of the european council's place. the european council is at present a hybrid body, with a dual nature, a mixed nature. on the one hand, it is a body which almost initiates legislation, or provides the council of ministers with a legislative impetus, and is therefore a kind of legislative super-chamber, and on the other hand, it is a body for political guidance which resembles a collegial head of state, so it has basically this dual nature. as a body of political direction or political address, to use the italian expression, i think it obviously has some accountability, it has to be accountable to parliament. as a body that is in the legislative process of the council, well, it is a kind of upper house or super upper house, and perhaps there should not be an accountability or accountability relationship, so i think this should be separated. i also have another question, namely whether there is any interest in the president of the european parliament attending council meetings. it reminds me of a sort of old english king-in-parliament solution, but in this case, on the contrary, it is parliament in king. it seems to me that this does not promote constitutional transparency in the european union system. perhaps it would be better to bring the president of the council here for the debates, but clearly to remove the council and parliament and to establish a separation of powers. one of the problems i think the european union has institutionally is that it pays little attention to the separation of powers and parliament tries to get into powers that are not its own, they are executive, they are political, they are international relations and the reverse also happens. and so the more we make the separation of powers clear, i think the more we gain institutionally and constitutionally.
the european stability mechanism has been of fundamental importance in resolving the single currency crisis and is of enormous importance in the years ahead through the creation of economic and monetary union. however, it is necessary to appoint the members of the administrative tribunal, thus giving some weight to the submission of complete applications in advance, so that they can be properly analysed and clarified.
the s&d group is calling for a 'finally'! finally, four years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the omnibus i and omnibus ii legislative packages bring the union's external trade legislation into line with the new rules resulting from that treaty on commission implementing and delegated acts. it was this small revolution of the lisbon treaty that took four years to put into practice. it is good news for the union, but we must admit that it has been too long. the delay in the completion of this legislative process is something we should all take as a lesson to avoid similar cases in the future. the institutions, especially the council - unfortunately there is no one here - must improve their efforts and change their procedures so as to respond in a reasonable time to european citizens and businesses. the speed of the union's legislative process must, from the outset, be based on flexible negotiating mandates, as is the case with the european parliament, even though our mandates are voted on here in the plenary. negotiating flexibility should be a pre-condition for interinstitutional negotiations and not the result of rigid and often inconsistent negotiating tactics. despite the difficulty of the negotiations, which has already been underlined here, a fully satisfactory agreement was reached and parliament safeguarded its principles on the various issues and problems raised, such as the clear distinction between delegated and implementing acts, all the more important since parliament has power of scrutiny only under the former. a clear criterion for the use of the advisory procedure and the comitology examination procedure and to ensure longer time limits for parliament to object to the use of delegated acts by the commission when matters of a strongly political nature are involved: two plus four months instead of two plus two months. this was a complex and time-consuming legislative process. finally, i would like to publicly express my appreciation as chairman of the committee on international trade to our fellow rapporteurs, mr godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl and mr jörg leichtfried, for their diligence and commitment and to the irish presidency of the council, which made it possible to conclude the negotiations, and finally to the commission for its spirit of collaboration and for the imagination of finding solutions which could form the basis of this agreement. we are all happy!
living and working in the eu without a bank account is hard to imagine, but there are tens of millions of europeans without a bank account because of the lack of a permanent address, the high charges associated with accounts and the lack of transparency in the system. that's what we want to change now, by ensuring that everyone, without exception, has access to a bank account. imco proposed that no fee be charged to the customer for the payment account switching process. however, the final text rejects the idea that this would mean that costs, even if reasonable, would be incurred by the customer. we will be attentive to the reality of the charges charged to consumers and to what the commission considers to be 'reasonable'. the possibility of switching the basic payment account from one member state to another was described in too ambiguous a way in the econ proposal, which i regret. it is important to ensure that consumers who have a 'normal' payment account may be entitled to switch to a payment account with basic features. these bills may today be too demanding financially for a section of the population that cannot afford them.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. the text is as follows: on 28 august, the european commission adopted a delegated act establishing annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 laying down the generalised scheme of preferences of the european union, known as the gsp. the gsp regulation strengthens the controls to ensure the effective implementation of the 27 international nuclear conventions by the gsp+ beneficiary countries, i.e. the enhanced trade preferences regime. the regulation does not provide for specific mechanisms for such control. the gsp+ scoreboards which the commission is now presenting will be an instrument for strengthening monitoring and dialogue with the beneficiary country. the scoreboards will be used in the light of new information, including from other sources such as the beneficiary states themselves or ngos. those will serve as a basis for the dialogue, the draft report to be submitted by the commission before 2016 and any reports on the exclusion of a country from the list of beneficiaries for breach of those conventions. the quality of these scoreboards and any reliable information gathered by the commission will be decisive for the effectiveness of the control. the commission should therefore answer the following questions: can the commission explain the modalities of the dialogue with the beneficiary countries? how does the commission intend to ensure that the beneficiary countries meet their obligations? how does the commission intend to ensure that it will receive regular information on the scoreboards both in the beneficiary countries and in the relevant monitoring bodies of the relevant international conventions? how does the commission intend to ensure that the monitoring mechanism has binding objectives and well-defined deadlines so that the gsp mechanism has measurable results? how does the commission intend to involve parliament in a meaningful way in the monitoring process? and, in the commission's view, the last question is how can civil society organisations, other than the relevant monitoring bodies, contribute to the monitoring process? these are the questions. and now, in my capacity as a member of this parliament, i would like to make the following comments: firstly, we welcome this initiative by the commission. the gsp regulation strengthens the control and monitoring that will take place after eligible countries become gsp+ beneficiaries, but does not provide for specific mechanisms. the key element is the result tables developed by the commission, which are a tool for more effective monitoring of the commitments made, a basis for dialogue with the beneficiary country and for the draft report to be drawn up by the commission. one of the problems with the evaluation of applications by the gsp+ is the absence of reports on these countries from the supervisory bodies of some of the conventions on the list. it does not seem reasonable that, in the absence of reports from these supervisory bodies, the conditions necessary for that purpose are met. without these reports, we cannot assess whether these countries are meeting the conditions associated with the gsp+, especially with regard to respect for human rights, and therefore we cannot know whether they are effectively implementing the conventions. we can only objectively assess the compliance of the beneficiary countries with the conventions if we set clear benchmarks. the union grants very favourable unilateral trade preferences and we should therefore expect real and measurable progress from the beneficiary countries. these benchmarks should be recorded and planned in the action plans of the respective gsp+ beneficiary countries. the last point is that the gsp scheme of the union, introduced in 1971, which is the most generous of all developed countries, is an instrument of development aid, which grants eligible countries access to the european market on privileged terms without any reciprocity. in one of its three forms, it is a special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance, which translates into additional concessions to countries that meet the necessary requirements, i.e. ratification and effective implementation of the 27 international conventions on human, labour and environmental rights. in the gsp regulation, the legislators delegated the power to the commission to adopt a delegated act to select gsp+ beneficiary countries. on 28 august the commission adopted a proposal for a delegated act to include a group of 10 countries in the list of beneficiaries. on 5 november the members of inta decided not to support a motion to object to this commission delegated act. this objection, which i share, is based on four reasons: the delegated act should not encompass the candidate countries as a package, since the granting of gsp+ status implies an individual assessment of each country on a case-by-case basis, and therefore it makes no sense to lump them into a single delegated act, preventing parliament from selecting from among the countries concerned those against which it may object. secondly, pakistan's application in particular is a matter of great concern, raising serious doubts as to whether it is fulfilling its obligations, given that the data provided by the commission itself reveal serious shortcomings in the implementation of some international conventions, particularly in the field of women's rights and children's rights. thirdly, the regulation makes it clear that it is not enough to ratify the 27 conventions, but that they must also be applied without serious flaws to any one of the conventions. fourthly, the granting of the gsp should be based on objective, impartial criteria and not on political favouritism, on grounds of political expediency, as may be the case. the green group and the gue have tabled the motion rejected in inta, which will be voted on tomorrow. needless to say, i'm going to vote for her.
blue-card question. – peter, thank you for allowing me to put this very simple question. do you not find it inadmissible that the commission, as mr rinaldi reminded us, has concealed deliberately from our committee the serious shortcomings reported by the monitoring bodies of the international conventions on the rights of women and rights of the child regarding, for example, pakistan, and that we knew of these shortcomings only after we had voted in our committee. do you not find this inadmissible?
mr president, the european commission's move to include all the countries to which it proposes to grant tariff preferences in a single delegated act severely limits, as has already been said, the possibility of democratic scrutiny of whether or not each of the countries concerned complies with the conditions justifying the granting of the preference. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, the commission, acting as an advocate for large economic groups in large countries, has been using all the expedients to justify the inclusion of pakistan in this list. this unjustifiable and unacceptable inclusion will have a serious economic impact on the textile, clothing and footwear sector, particularly in portugal. as if the destruction and misery brought to us by the troika were not enough, they are thus launching yet another unacceptable attack on a productive sector of recognised importance to the country. the need to break away from these policies and guidelines, which are radically incompatible with any prospect of development, justice and progress, is therefore becoming more and more evident.
the value of the benefits offered by nature is often overlooked. we continue to allow natural heritage to be degraded, which jeopardises long-term sustainability and increases vulnerability to environmental crises. green infrastructure offers a multitude of ecological, economic and social benefits through natural solutions. in fact, nature can sometimes offer cheaper and more sustainable solutions and contribute to job creation. in addition, investments in green infrastructure typically have a high return. green infrastructure solutions are very important in urban environments, where more than 60% of union citizens live, offering benefits to the individual and the community at physical, psychological, emotional and socio-economic levels. green infrastructure has positive effects on climate change mitigation: solutions such as green roofs and walls can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in addition to other benefits in terms of water retention, air purification and biodiversity promotion. green infrastructure initiatives, in particular in the agricultural and forestry sectors, also have a positive effect on carbon stocks and can contribute to the union's policies and its international obligations to combat climate change. such solutions further enhance disaster resilience and should therefore be integrated into the union and member states' policies on disaster risk management. green infrastructure solutions such as natural floodplains, riparian vegetation, mountain protection forests, beach barrier and coastal wetlands contribute to risk reduction and are attractive alternatives also in terms of cost-effectiveness. with increasing urbanisation of the territory and the consequent degradation of the soil, it is essential to integrate green infrastructure into the process of spatial planning and decision-making at all levels. as is well known, in many regions the soil has been irreversibly eroded, with low levels of organic matter or problems of contamination. green infrastructure must therefore be integrated into regional development and cohesion policies, climate change and environment policies and also disaster management, as i have said. i would like to conclude by saying that in recent years we have had good examples of green infrastructure projects, but it would be important to strengthen the consistency and coherence of these projects and the involvement of civil society would be very useful.
the development of so-called green infrastructure, understood as a continuum of ecological structure with functional relevance, can undoubtedly help to lay the foundations for a sustainable relationship between man and nature. green infrastructure solutions offer interesting possibilities to respond to the need to meet human needs in a framework of reduced resource consumption and increased resource efficiency. green infrastructure requires new infrastructure or adaptation of some existing infrastructure. public policies should devote efforts and investment to the development of these infrastructures. the budget of the european union could and should support these efforts, combining economic and social cohesion with environmental preservation. in this respect, the recent weakening of the european union budget and the questionable reorientation of its priorities cannot but be a cause for serious concern. we have long called for the creation of a specific instrument to finance the costs of managing the natura 2000 network, which has not been possible until now. it is also important that any budgetary resources that may be directed to this purpose, to green infrastructure and the creation of green infrastructure, should be directed within a framework of public ownership and management of infrastructure and the collective appropriation of its benefits, avoiding, for example, the channelling of public resources for private profit, of which the flourishing public-private partnerships are a prime example.
i would like to thank mr draghi for his excellent report, which i think is a very good one. it was perhaps the only european institution which had the courage to react to the crisis with the non-standard measures that the crisis required, and i think it has found in parliament a loyal and constructive partner in this permanent reconstruction of the european project. it is true, however, that we are still facing a very serious situation of economic stagnation and unemployment in europe and that it is clear at this stage that reducing interest rates is an insufficient measure if there is no economic dynamism, as my colleague mr pittella and his colleagues have acknowledged in the text now available. it is important that we should now be able to hear from the european central bank a deeper reflection on the crisis, precisely because of the role it has played so far in containing the damage, and i would particularly like to hear from it on four points. firstly, the european central bank was one of the actors in the troika and this seems to me to be one of the least interesting contributions during the crisis. what is the european central bank's view of this participation and the consequences of the revenues imposed on the countries? secondly, i think we're at a time when we need to think more long-term. can the european union continue to function with a central bank whose functions and powers are prepared for an inflationary situation, when we are faced with the risk of deflation and a deep recession? thirdly, it is true that we concluded the negotiations for the resolution on the new bank resolution legislation yesterday. it is important that the single resolution mechanism is a system based on the community method, in which banks are not at risk of suffering the consequences of political games in their resolution process. but let us not forget that the banking union had three legs, and the joint management of deposits, of deposit guarantees is one leg that is still missing. and finally, mr president, i would just like to ask you to give us your opinion on the management of sovereign debt, where the commission has started a process of reflection because we are going to come out of this crisis with completely unacceptable levels of sovereign debt and the untos are not enough to sustain speculation on it.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would also like to start by highlighting and acknowledging the work done by mr pittella in evaluating the ecb's activities in relation to 2012. but having said that, i also want to emphasize one issue that is always withdrawn from these debates or trying to withdraw, it's a kind of elephant that is in the middle of the room but nobody sees it. the ecb in 2012 continued to sink into the troika model, continued to participate as a member of the troika in different countries and it seems that in these debates, you talk about interest rates, monetary policy and you introduce the ecb that you can introduce to your friends but the other one is hidden in the room and can't even be subject to debate. now, the ecb that lowers interest rates to try to fight the crisis is the same ecb that crushes wages in the countries that are under troika intervention and that does not touch the essential, on the contrary, aggravates the essential problem, because the essential problem is the lack of domestic demand and that is what brings us to recession, that is what will keep us in recession, and that is the ecb that also exists. the troika ecb is never judged democratically, it is never evaluated. i think that is one of the biggest problems we have here and, in addition, there is the problem of conditionality because to link the activation of the omt, that is to say the direct purchase of debt from the primary market, with the conditionality imposed on the states, on the countries that are under intervention, is a kind of troika 2.0. so we already know that the troika has done something wrong, but mr president, i just want to end with this, we know that the troika has done something wrong, but the ecb must also be held accountable for this, because the ecb cannot be just this distant entity that interferes and makes daily interference in countries but about which we cannot say anything.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the change of status of mayotte from an overseas territory to an outermost region, with effect from 1 january 2014, and the consequent application of the acquis of the european union requires that due account be taken of the specificities of the region. in the fisheries sector, this requires that account be taken of both the natural specificities of the region and those relating to the level of development of the local fisheries sector. in view of the importance and vulnerability of local marine ecosystems and natural values present, it is imperative to ensure that france is able to take the conservation measures deemed necessary to preserve the natural values protected by the legislation establishing the maiote marine natural park, including the possibility of limiting fishing to vessels registered in the ports of maiote. this provision serves the dual purpose of protecting local marine ecosystems, taking into account their high sensitivity, and of ensuring resources and safety conditions for the local small-scale fishing fleet. i therefore ask, and i shall be the quicker the less noise you make, i therefore ask that you approve the amendments to the proposal for a regulation, in particular amendments nos 8 and 14.
in writing. − for several years now, the number of cases decided by the general court has been lower than the number of new cases, so that the number of cases pending is constantly increasing. for this reason, it was decided to increase the number of judges. this report deals with the criteria for filling the posts in question. it therefore advocates that one judge be appointed per member state, in accordance with current practice, taking into account the need for geographical balance and taking due account of national legal systems. the 12 additional judges shall be selected, irrespective of their nationality, on the basis of their cv only. however, there may be no more than two judges per member state. the report also suggests that retired judges may nominate themselves to the committee provided for in article 255 tfeu. the committee shall attach its opinion on the suitability of the profile and experience of the candidates on the list, ranking them on the basis of merit. we believe that other criteria for filling the additional seats could have been defined, reinforcing rather than weakening the principle of equal representation of the different member states (e.g. a rotation criterion). moreover, this increase in the activity of the ecj cannot of course be dissociated from the deepening of federalism.
in writing. - in view of the constantly increasing number of cases, i voted in favour of the above draft regulation, which provides for an increase in the number of judges of the general court.
in writing. − this document is the second part of a procedure to amend the statute of the court of justice of the european union. the first part was adopted on 12 july 2012. the second concerns the increase in the number of judges of the general court to 39 and the criteria for their appointment, since only some member states will be able to appoint two judges. i voted in favour of the document because i agree with the commitments made, namely to keep one judge per member state, preserving geographical balance, and to select the additional judges, irrespective of their nationality, on the basis of suitability for the post.
in writing. − the court of justice has submitted to the european union a legislative proposal to amend the statute of the court of justice. for several years now, the number of cases decided by the general court has been lower than the number of new cases, so that the number of cases pending has been steadily increasing. there was a 65 percent increase between 2000 and 2010. the court of justice has concluded that an increase in the number of judges is necessary and has suggested that the minimum increase be 12. to this end, the european commission is leaning towards a nomination method based on curriculum only. the report argues that all member state governments should be allowed to submit applications on the basis of their professional competence. it is clear that the appointment of 12 additional judges could thus favour some member states over others, and we believe that a more equitable formula could be found: either to hire 28 additional judges or to have the 12 provided for here work on a rotating basis.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted the commission proposal on directives 2006/112/ec and 2008/118/ec as regards the french outermost regions and in particular mayotte. by decision of the european council, the status of mayotte with regard to the european union shall be changed as from 1 january 2014, when this region shall change from the status of outermost region to that of overseas country and territory. the proposal aims to ensure that, as a result of its similar situation to that of the other french outermost regions, it will be treated in the same way as regards the two abovementioned directives on vat and excise duties, i.e. it will be excluded from the application of these directives, as will the other outermost regions, once it becomes an outermost region. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted the commission proposal on directives 2006/112/ec and 2008/118/ec as regards the french outermost regions and in particular mayotte. by decision of the european council, the status of mayotte with regard to the european union shall be changed as from 1 january 2014, when this region shall change from the status of outermost region to that of overseas country and territory. the proposal aims to ensure that, as a result of its similar situation to that of the other french outermost regions, it will be treated in the same way as regards the two abovementioned directives on vat and excise duties, i.e. it will be excluded from the application of these directives, as will the other outermost regions, once it becomes an outermost region. i am voting in favour of this text.
in writing. − this report concerns the change in the status of mayotte, which will have the status of an outermost region instead of an overseas country and territory as from 1 january 2014, with regard to the application of the directives on value added tax and excise duty, which would apply to this region as from that date. this proposal therefore aims to exclude mayotte and other french outermost regions by making clearer, through a reference to article 349 and article 355 (1), the exclusion of all these regions from the application of the value added tax (directive 2006/112/ec) and excise duties (directive 2008/118/ec) directives. as in the case of other sectoral reports with the same objective, we voted in favour.
in writing. - with the adoption of this report, we intend to amend certain directives to amend the status of the mayotte region. it will cease to be an overseas territory (oct) and will become an outermost region as from 1 january 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document approving the proposal for a council directive amending directives 2006/112/ec and 2008/118/ec as regards the french outermost regions and in particular mayotte. since mayotte will have the status of an outermost region as from 1 january 2014 under article 349 tfeu, there are a number of legislative areas that merit timely amendment.
in writing. − this report concerns the change in the status of mayotte, which will be an outermost region instead of an overseas territory from 1 january 2014. it is therefore necessary to make adjustments in the application of the vat and excise directives, which would apply to this region from that date. this proposal aims to exclude mayotte and other french outermost regions, making clearer, through a reference to articles 349 and 355 (1), the exclusion of all these regions from the application of the value added tax (directive 2006/112/ec1) and excise duties (directive 2008/118/ec2) directives. we voted yes.
in writing. − the council consulted the european parliament on the draft amendment to council directive 2010/18/eu to amend the mayotte status, although such consultation is not required under the legal basis proposed by the commission. as from 1 january 2014, mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory and will become an outermost region in accordance with articles 349 and 355 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following this change in mayotte's legal status, union legislation applies to mayotte from that date. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution on the amendment of the statute of mayotte.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to amend council directive 2010/18/eu, which implements the revised framework agreement on parental leave, concluded by the social partners. given the specific social and economic situation of mayotte, where the employment rate is very low and based on traditional sectors, which correspond to subsistence activities. the french authorities have requested a deferral of the application of this directive until 31 december 2018 in order to ensure that equal treatment in the specific field of parental leave is achieved progressively and in a way that does not destabilise the economic development of the new outermost region. we voted yes.
in writing. − by council decision, as from 1 january 2014, mayotte will cease to be an overseas territory and will become an outermost region within the meaning of articles 349 and 355 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. following this change in the legal status of mayotte, union legislation applies to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. however, it is appropriate to provide for certain specific measures, which are justified by the particular structural, social and economic situation of mayotte as a new outermost region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document approving the draft council directive amending council directive 2010/18/eu as a result of the change in the status of mayotte. since mayotte will have the status of an outermost region as from 1 january 2014 under article 349 tfeu, there are a number of legislative areas which merit timely amendment and therefore such amendments are necessary.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to amend council directive 2010/18/eu, which implements the revised framework agreement on parental leave, concluded by the social partners. in view of the specific social and economic situation of mayotte, where the employment rate is very low and based on traditional sectors corresponding to subsistence activities, the french authorities have requested a deferment of the application of this directive until 31 december 2018 with the aim of ensuring that equal treatment in the specific field of parental leave is achieved progressively and in a way that does not destabilise the economic development of the new outermost region. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy, for proposals to deepen the job creation potential associated with environmentally friendly innovations, which make it possible to increase resource efficiency and to manufacture quality products with a lower impact on the environment, through specific financial instruments, investment in education and training and the integration of eco-innovation into industrial policy.
in writing. - the report by mrs karin kadenbach focuses on eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policing. today we are faced with major challenges such as the scarcity of raw materials and dependence on imports, the sustainability of economic growth. in addition, we are living with high unemployment rates and job creation is crucial to ensure social cohesion. i therefore believe that environmentally friendly innovation is essential, in particular, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources such as water and raw materials more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to manufacture quality products with a lower impact on the environment, and to develop more environmentally friendly services and production processes. some 1 million new green jobs have already been created and the global green technology business is expected to double to 3,1 billion by 2020. i believe that eco-innovation is an essential factor in achieving these objectives, it combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation.
in writing. − the report highlights the importance of eco-innovation for the shift towards an efficient, low-carbon economy; in responding to the complex challenges of food security, climate change, raw material scarcity and the lack of sustainable employment opportunities. it also mentions the importance of education and training programmes for the development of knowledge, the importance of mainstreaming the concept of eco-innovation in all policy areas, strengthening legislation for the development and use of renewable energy and resource efficiency and creating synergies between all sectors and stakeholders. we agree on the importance of changing patterns of consumption, production and use of technologies, products and services to reduce environmental impact; and on the idea of creating sustainable solutions in a wide range of areas. we share some of the criticisms made of the commission, particularly with regard to the vagueness of the concept of eco-innovation. but apart from the strongly commercial approach underlying it, we also disagree with other aspects of this report, such as some measures which do not take into account the specificities of the various member states, their different needs and problems.
in writing. − eco-innovation is emerging in the context of a development that is increasingly sustainable, reducing the impact of our production methods on the environment, using natural resources more efficiently and responsibly, thus helping europe to optimise its growth potential and at the same time contributing to finding answers to challenges such as climate change, resource scarcity or the decline of biodiversity. this report supports the full dimension of this concept, while also drawing attention to the need to exploit business and employment opportunities alongside environmental benefits by supporting all eco-innovation projects in all sectors.
in writing. − the european union is a major player in the eco-innovation process, a concept that combines environmental protection with growth, competitiveness and job creation an essential tool for ensuring social cohesion. the commission is currently promoting eco-innovation through demonstrations, projects and public-private partnerships under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. and the recent growth of green technologies demonstrates that investment in the area is a great economic opportunity. in addition, it is estimated that around 1 million new green jobs have been created in recent years, making the green technology sector one of the largest employers in the european economy. it also underlines that in the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, eco-innovation initiatives are covered by the environment and climate action programme (life). i believe that eco-innovation should be supported and promoted and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report highlights the importance of eco-innovation for the shift towards an efficient, low-carbon economy; in responding to the complex challenges of food security, climate change, raw material scarcity and the lack of sustainable employment opportunities. it also mentions the importance of education and training programmes for the development of knowledge, the importance of mainstreaming the concept of eco-innovation in all policy areas, strengthening legislation for the development and use of renewable energy and resource efficiency and creating synergies between all sectors and stakeholders. we agree on the importance of changing patterns of consumption, production and use of technologies, products and services to reduce environmental impact; and on the idea of creating sustainable solutions in a wide range of areas. in addition to the strongly commercial approach underlying this report, we also disagree with other aspects of it, such as some measures which do not take account of the specificities of the various member states, their different needs and problems.
in writing. - we voted on the final text agreed between parliament and the council on the adaptation to the lisbon treaty of 26 regulations on the common commercial policy (cpc), known as omnibus i. the main problem with this report, according to parliament, has been overcome by limiting the delegation of powers to the commission. the biggest problem with this report is that, following the lisbon treaty, the cfp is an exclusive competence of the eu. the definition of trading partners and the objectives to which trade must be subject are an important instrument of economic sovereignty. the disposal of this instrument has resulted in very serious losses for numerous sectors of economic activity and for the country in general. trade policy has been geared towards maximising the profits of the major economic groups of the eu powers, to the clear detriment of countries like portugal and weaker sectors of economic activity, which have been exposed to fierce and destructive competition. free trade has been the guiding principle of the ccp, guiding it towards a logic of capitalist competition rather than complementarity and mutual benefit. our profound disagreement with the cpc is an assumption we cannot fail to take into account in the analysis of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption by the european parliament and the council of amendments to certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures. this is to adapt the rules for decision-making in commercial policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as established by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. the proposal aims to adapt 26 council legal acts to the common commercial policy, following the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon to the system of delegated and implementing acts. the alignment to the provisions of articles 290 and 291 tfeu is thus intended to facilitate a more efficient exercise of the commission's implementing powers and to contribute to a more effective implementation of the common commercial policy. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. - we voted on the final text agreed between parliament and the council on the adaptation to the lisbon treaty of 26 regulations on the common commercial policy (cpc), known as omnibus i. the main problem with this report, according to parliament, has been overcome by limiting the delegation of powers to the commission. the biggest problem with this report is that, following the lisbon treaty, the cfp is an exclusive competence of the eu. the definition of trading partners and the objectives to which trade must be subject are an important instrument of economic sovereignty. the disposal of this instrument has resulted in very serious losses for numerous sectors of economic activity and for the country in general. our profound disagreement with the cpc is an assumption we cannot fail to take into account in the analysis of this report.
in writing. - this report is a follow-up to the omnibus i regulation. the purpose of this regulation is to bring the other regulations on the common commercial policy (cpc) into line with article 290 of the treaty, i.e. the system of delegated acts (omnibus ii). as in the omnibus i regulation, the most substantial change resulting from the negotiations with the council was the limitation of the commission's powers to five years. however, we cannot fail to appreciate the deeper significance of this report, taking into account the principle of the treaty and its provisions on trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the eu. the definition of trading partners and the objectives to guide trade is an important instrument of economic sovereignty. the disposal of this instrument has resulted, in the case of portugal, in serious losses for numerous sectors of economic activity, for the country itself. trade policy has been geared towards maximising the profits of the major economic groups of the eu powers, to the clear detriment of countries like portugal and weaker sectors of economic activity, which have been exposed to fierce and destructive competition. our profound disagreement with the cpc is an assumption we cannot fail to take into account in the analysis of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption by the european parliament and the council of amendments to certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures. this is to adapt the rules for decision-making in commercial policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as established by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − this proposal aims to align the decision-making procedures within the comitology on the legislation of the common commercial policy with the regime of delegated and implementing acts. in principle, these procedures include those based on directive 1999/468/ec. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report is a follow-up to the omnibus i regulation. the purpose of this regulation is to bring the other regulations on the common commercial policy (cpc) into line with article 290 of the treaty, i.e. the system of delegated acts (omnibus ii). as in the omnibus i regulation, the most substantial change resulting from the negotiations with the council was the limitation of the commission's powers to five years. however, we cannot fail to appreciate the deeper significance of this report, taking into account the principle of the treaty and its provisions on trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the eu. the definition of trading partners and the objectives to guide trade is an important instrument of economic sovereignty. the disposal of this instrument has resulted, in the case of portugal, in serious losses for numerous sectors of economic activity, for the country itself. trade policy has been geared towards maximising the profits of the major economic groups of the eu powers, to the clear detriment of countries like portugal and weaker sectors of economic activity, which have been exposed to fierce and destructive competition.
in writing. − the main objectives of the payment accounts directive are to improve the comparability of information between payment accounts and to allow switching between accounts, to eliminate discrimination in access to payment accounts based on residence criteria (which prevent many citizens from opening such accounts outside their home country) and to ensure accounts with basic features accessible to all citizens. a free and homogeneous internal market requires that action under this directive be effective. uniform rules should be applied to the provision of payment services and the information to be provided, making systems more transparent and facilitating access to these services, which will encourage dynamism and competitiveness in this market, to the benefit of the final consumer. only to private consumers, excluding credit cards or savings accounts. although the text was approved in its entirety, the european parliament took the final decision to postpone the vote on this report, considering that the final vote should only take place after the first reading negotiations with the eu council. i supported this decision.
in writing. − the main objectives of the payment accounts directive are to improve the comparability of information between payment accounts and to allow switching between accounts, to eliminate discrimination in access to payment accounts based on residence criteria (which prevent many citizens from opening such accounts outside their home country) and to ensure accounts with basic features accessible to all citizens. the objectives of achieving a free and homogeneous internal market require that action under this directive be effective. uniform rules should be applied to the provision of payment services and the information to be provided, making systems more transparent and facilitating access to these services, which will encourage dynamism and competitiveness in this market, to the benefit of the final consumer. this text applies only to private consumers, excluding credit cards or savings accounts. although the text was approved in its entirety, the european parliament took the final decision to postpone the vote on this report, considering that the final vote should only take place after the first reading negotiations with the eu council. i agree with the decision in question, which i am voting for.
in writing. − since 2007, fees for keeping current accounts have increased by around 41% in portugal. in 1994, banks reported a bank commission revenue of eur 448 million, which by 2005 was already over eur 2,5 billion. banking commissions now account for about a quarter of banking output, compared with one tenth in 1994. it is clear that the profits from bank commissions have increased and that these commissions are a condition for access to and use of the bank account, at a time when these are now an almost obligatory service for receiving a salary, a pension or for making payments. the rules laid down by this directive do not guarantee that these practices of banks will be changed, maintaining for most accounts the charges associated with services. the right to access a payment account with basic features is created, intended for persons in a more vulnerable economic situation, who, as in the case of migrants or immigrants, will be required to provide proof of connection to the member state of residence, which should include a description of their economic and social profile. these basic accounts may create discriminatory situations and may be subject to a reasonable payment.
in writing. − the continued development of the single market in financial services is of paramount importance for europe's growth and competitiveness. however, obstacles to a fully integrated internal market for financial services remain. the most recent initiatives at eu level have sought to help the single market develop to its full potential by ending market fragmentation and removing barriers and obstacles to the movement of services, while strengthening citizens' confidence in the internal market and ensuring that its benefits are passed on to consumers. in this context, and with a view to improving the integration of the payment account market in the eu, this proposal aims to improve the transparency and comparability of information on the charges for payment accounts, to facilitate switching, to eliminate discrimination on grounds of residence in relation to payment accounts and to provide access to a payment account with basic features within the eu.
in writing. − this directive aims to improve the transparency and comparability of information on payment accounts, to facilitate switching of payment accounts, to eliminate discrimination on grounds of residence and to improve access to payment accounts with basic features within the european union. this directive shall apply to payment accounts held by consumers, so that accounts held by businesses are excluded from its scope. i have voted in favour of the document for the reasons stated.
in writing. − since 2007, current account fees have increased by around 41% on average in portugal. in 1994, banks reported a bank commission revenue of eur 448 million, which by 2005 was already over eur 2,5 billion. banking commissions now account for about a quarter of banking output, compared with one tenth of that in 1994. it is clear that these fees are a condition for access to and use of the bank account at a time when it is now an almost obligatory service to receive salary, pension or to make payments. the rules laid down by this directive do not change these practices of banks, maintaining for most accounts the charges associated with services. it will also set up a switching service, with a fee, for which customers will pay a reasonable price. and they create what they call the right of access to a payment account with basic features, vocationally for people in more vulnerable economic situations. these basic accounts may create discriminatory situations and may be subject to a reasonable payment. we are waiting for the outcome of the negotiations between the ep and the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management, as i believe that planning should follow an ecosystem-based approach, taking into account that maritime and coastal activities and uses, such as fishing, energy production and supply, tourism and transport, often take place in ecologically sensitive areas which should be safeguarded.
in writing. − this report deals with the framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management in the eu. the main objective is to promote the sustainable growth of maritime and coastal activities and the sustainable use of marine and coastal resources. to this end, member states should establish and implement maritime spatial planning plans in their waters and integrated coastal management strategies in their coastal zones, taking into account the specificities of regions and sub-regions, their sectoral activities, marine waters and coastal zones. all this is inseparable from the quest for the sea and its resources and from the growing competition between different uses, which often tends to neglect historical uses of obvious historical, cultural, social and economic importance, such as fishing. this is reflected in the intersection of energy supply, shipping, fisheries and aquaculture and the preservation and protection of the environment. notwithstanding that fair and relevant issues are addressed; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. − the european union has set itself the objective of becoming a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020. we can only achieve this by properly managing the marine environment and integrated coastal management, and we must not forget that coastal areas are responsible for a large part of the eu economy. however, the increasing use of coastal and marine areas and the effects of climate change, natural hazards and erosion are putting coastal and marine resources under pressure. in order to ensure sustainable growth and preserve coastal and marine ecosystems for future generations, integrated and coherent management is necessary. marine spatial planning is generally understood as a public process of analysing and planning the spatial and temporal distribution of human activities in marine areas with a view to achieving economic, environmental and social objectives. only then will we make the eu's coastal zones, which are so important for the necessary economic growth and the reduction of unemployment, more efficient and more prosperous.
in writing. − the blue economy is an essential pillar of the maritime dimension of the eu 2020 strategy. this importance is reflected in the figures: more than 200 million eu citizens live in coastal areas; the associated sectors, namely the maritime and marine sectors, employ 5.4 million workers and the gross value added represents eur 500 billion. it is therefore necessary to establish integrated coastal management plans in the member states, which make possible the sustainable development of these areas. on the other hand, the unknown of the deep sea is still enormous. there must therefore be a joint effort by the member states and the union to simultaneously map marine and maritime resources and identify potential and measures to safeguard and protect biodiversity. marine energy, mining, blue biotechnology and the pursuit of quality and sustainable tourism should be part of this approach, embracing the enormous potential of this area. i come from an island region and i cannot agree more with this report.
in writing. − this report deals with the framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management in the eu. the main objective is to promote the sustainable growth of maritime and coastal activities and the sustainable use of marine and coastal resources. to this end, member states should establish and implement maritime spatial planning plans in their waters and integrated coastal management strategies in their coastal zones, taking into account the specificities of regions and sub-regions, their sectoral activities, marine waters and coastal zones. all this is inseparable from the quest for the sea and its resources and from the growing competition between different uses, which often tends to neglect historical uses of obvious historical, cultural, social and economic importance, such as fishing. this is reflected in the intersection of energy supply, shipping, fisheries and aquaculture and the preservation and protection of the environment. notwithstanding that fair and relevant issues are addressed; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. the report by mr matthias groote deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending certain directives in the fields of the environment, agriculture, social policy and public health as a result of the change in mayotte's status with the union. according to decision 2012/419/eu, the new status of mayotte enters into force on 1 january 2014, which implies the full application of eu legislation, and it is no longer an overseas territory but an overseas department. since france cannot guarantee full implementation of union legislation from the outset, it will be necessary to define a number of transitional deadlines and provisions, in particular on waste water treatment, dimensions, water policy, bathing water quality management, sizes of cages for laying hens, among others. i therefore agree with the transitional arrangements proposed by the commission, but i believe that speed in the full implementation of union legislation is the best way forward, both for the environment and public health and for the welfare of the animals on the island.
in writing. - the change in the status of mayotte - which now becomes an outermost region - implies the full application of eu legislation. it is therefore necessary to define transitional periods and arrangements for this region, since it is impossible for france to ensure the full application of this legislation immediately. this report covers the application of specific legislation for waste water treatment, water policy, bathing water quality management, minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents and patients' rights in terms of cross-border health care, which should be routine. as in the case of other sectoral reports with the same objective, we voted in favour.
in writing. − from 1 january 2014, the new status of the outermost region of mayotte will come into force, which implies the full application of eu legislation. however, it is impossible for france to ensure such full application of union legislation from the outset and it is necessary to define several transitional deadlines and provisions, in particular on waste water treatment, dimensions, water policy, bathing water quality management, cage sizes for laying hens, minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents and patients' rights in terms of cross-border healthcare. the report sets out a number of provisions which will enable mayotte to implement eu legislation in full on a progressive basis.
in writing. - due to the change in mayotte's status with the union, some directives in the fields of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health will have to be amended. since mayotte will become an outermost region from 1 january 2014 under article 349 tfeu, there are a number of legislative areas that merit timely amendment, in particular in the field of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the change in the status of mayotte - which now becomes an outermost region - implies the full application of eu legislation. it is therefore necessary to define transitional periods and arrangements for this region, since it is impossible for france to ensure the full application of this legislation immediately. this report covers the application of specific legislation for waste water treatment, water policy, bathing water quality management, minimum health and safety requirements for workers' exposure to risks from physical agents and patients' rights in terms of cross-border health care, which should be routine. as in the case of other sectoral reports with the same objective, we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which provides for support for fishing activities which are more environmentally and socially sustainable, which favour artisanal and selective fishing gear and which ensure the protection of marine resources and the environment.
in writing. - this vote takes place before the trilogue is concluded and is therefore intended, in essence, to confirm the vote taken at first reading last october. at that time the final vote on the legislative resolution was postponed at the suggestion of the rapporteur. it is now clear that this delay was of little or no practical value. the result of this vote in the plenary essentially confirms the vote in the committee on fisheries. we welcome some aspects of this proposal for a regulation, some of which are the result of the acceptance of amendments which we have proposed, such as: the possibility for the emff to provide financial support for the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological protection, support for so-called biological stops; the increase in community co-financing for the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80% (maximum rate); the increase in co-financing for projects linked to small-scale fishing by 30%. however, there are still many loopholes and shortcomings in the regulation which led us to abstain. we regret the rejection of proposals for a more realistic definition of small-scale fishing; support for the construction of new ports, landing sites and lots; and support, under strict conditions, for the replacement of engines for safety reasons on board and for the renewal of the fleet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document approving a european maritime and fisheries fund, which includes the financing of the common fisheries policy and the financing of the integrated maritime policy. this document is part of the legislative package for the next period of the common fisheries policy which was approved by the european parliament this week and will enter into force at the beginning of next year 2014.
in writing. - this vote takes place before the trilogue is concluded and is therefore intended, in essence, to confirm the vote taken at first reading last october. at that time the final vote on the legislative resolution was postponed at the suggestion of the rapporteur. it is now clear that this delay was of little or no practical value. the result of this vote in the plenary essentially confirms the vote in the committee on fisheries. we welcome certain aspects of this proposal for a regulation: the possibility for the emff to provide financial support for the temporary cessation of fishing activities during periods of biological protection, support for so-called biological stops; the increase in community co-financing for the collection and management of biological data from the current 50% to 80% (maximum rate); the increase in co-financing for projects relating to small-scale fishing by 30%. however, there are still many loopholes and shortcomings in the regulation which led us to abstain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on support for european capitals of culture for the years 2020 and 2033, as it continues the european capitals of culture as a promoter of europe's cultural, linguistic and heritage wealth. european capitals of culture promote greater understanding between european citizens, reinforcing the feeling of belonging to a common cultural space, encouraging intercultural dialogue and promoting the common cultural and historical characteristics of cities.
in writing. − support for european capitals of culture has proved important in helping to promote the development of the target cities, both in terms of the cultural offer and its impact on local social and economic development. this report establishes an action entitled 'european capitals of culture for the years 2020-2033', the general objectives of which focus on safeguarding and promoting the diversity of cultures in europe and on the emergence of the common characteristics they share, as well as on strengthening citizens' sense of belonging to a common cultural space. despite the less correct formulations, which are steeped in the illusion of the existence of a so-called european cultural identity, the central issue of respect for the diversity and specific characteristics of the cultural heritage of each member state is emphasised, while at the same time enabling a greater dialogue between the various cultures, in particular through the promotion of culture for the long-term development of cities, in accordance with their respective strategies and priorities. these are positive aspects which deserve our support. such as enhancing the reach, diversity and european dimension of cultural offerings in cities, including through transnational cooperation. portugal is a potential candidate in the year 2027 for the period considered.
in writing. - the european capitals of culture can be considered one of the most successful eu initiatives in recent years. the current system governing the selection of european capitals of culture is due to expire in 2019. the new proposal lists the order in which countries will nominate cities for the title by 2033. the proposal proposes that, in addition to the two member states sharing the title each year, candidate or potential candidate countries may also nominate a european capital of culture every three years. the present proposal maintains the main features and structure of the current system. it proposes, in particular, that the title should continue to be awarded on a rotating basis to the member states. the selection criteria have been amended to provide more detailed guidance to potential capitals, which will also help to streamline the selection and monitoring processes of the cities involved. the commission proposal is the result of several evaluations of the current system and several public consultations. i think that this new regulation is well designed and will allow this initiative to continue to be a success.
in writing. − the european capitals of culture were set up in 1985 and have quickly become a european union action with wide recognition and interest throughout the european area. this report proposes the continuation of the european capitals of culture initiative after the end of the current system in 2019. however, some improvements to the evaluation system are highlighted, including new evaluation obligations for the cities themselves, and the opening up of this initiative to candidate and potential candidate countries. the involvement of local civil society in this initiative should be encouraged and the long-term sustainability of cultural projects should be improved. this is certainly an initiative that motivates european citizens, as can be seen from the high number of applications received annually, and in a time of economic crisis initiatives like this are to be safeguarded as they are meant to boost the competitiveness of the cultural and creative sectors in europe.
in writing. − support for european capitals of culture has proved to be key to the development of the winning cities, both in terms of the cultural offer and the impact on local social and economic development. this report establishes an action entitled 'european capitals of culture for the years 2020-2033', the general objectives of which focus on safeguarding and promoting the diversity of cultures in europe and on the emergence of the common characteristics they share, as well as on strengthening citizens' sense of belonging to a common cultural space. we believe that european cultural identity is not the same as identity in relation to the eu as a political process. the central issue of respect for the diversity and specific characteristics of the cultural heritage of each of the member states of the union is emphasised here, while at the same time enabling a greater dialogue between the various cultures. all the specific objectives such as strengthening the reach, diversity and european dimension of cultural offerings in cities, including through transnational cooperation, broadening access to cultural activities and participation, strengthening the capacity of the cultural sector and its links with other sectors and raising the international profile of cities are positive aspects and deserved our support. portugal is a potential candidate in the year 2027.
in writing. − the change in the status of mayotte, with the application of the eu acquis, requires that the specificities of the region be taken into account. in the fisheries sector, this requires that account be taken of both the natural specificities of the region and those relating to the level of development of the local fisheries sector. given the importance and vulnerability of local marine ecosystems and natural values present, it is imperative to ensure that france is able to adopt the conservation measures deemed necessary to preserve the natural values protected by the legislation establishing the maiote marine natural park, including the possibility of limiting fishing to vessels registered in the ports of maiote. this provision serves the dual purpose of protecting local marine ecosystems, taking into account their high sensitivity, and of ensuring resources and safety conditions for the local small-scale fishing fleet. the adoption of this report (especially amendments nos 8 and 14) is of the utmost importance, since it can be the starting point for the protection of valuable resources located in the portuguese eez, more particularly in the azores (between 100 and 200 miles), while also protecting our fleet in access to these resources, a situation which is not guaranteed today.
in writing. − from 1 january 2014, the new status of the outermost region of mayotte will come into force, which implies the full application of eu legislation. this proposal takes account of the requests made by the french authorities to amend the union acquis by specific measures applicable to mayotte in different areas such as fisheries and animal health. in certain respects, france needs more time to comply with the union acquis as regards mayotte. this requirement applies in particular to registration and control obligations in the fisheries sector, in so far as they concern certain vessels scattered off the island and not associated with a specific port base. with this proposal we are giving france the means to adapt eu legislation in the field of fisheries and animal health to the newly created outermost region of mayotte.
in writing. - due to the change in mayotte's status with the union, regulations in the field of fisheries and animal health will have to be amended. as mayotte will become an outermost region from 1 january 2014 under article 349 tfeu, there are a number of legislative areas that merit timely amendment, in particular in the area of fisheries and animal health. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the change in the status of mayotte, with the application of the eu acquis, requires that the specificities of the region be taken into account. in the fisheries sector, this requires that account be taken of both the natural specificities of the region and those relating to the level of development of the local fisheries sector. in view of the importance and vulnerability of local marine ecosystems and natural values present, it is imperative to ensure that france is able to adopt the conservation measures deemed necessary to preserve the natural values protected by the legislation establishing the maiote marine natural park, including the possibility of limiting fishing to vessels registered in the ports of maiote. we voted yes.
in writing. − in addition to opposing the inclusion of pakistan on this list - which is unjustified and irregular - we also oppose the procedure chosen by the european commission, including in a single delegated act ten countries proposed to join the gsp+ system. in fact, the second was nothing more than a clumsy expedient to catch up with the first. in addition to not allowing parliament to discuss and examine the proposed changes to the list of gsp+ beneficiaries in a serious and individual way, this procedure prevents effective scrutiny of the commission's proposal for the granting of gsp+ - an effectiveness which obviously depends on the ability of parliament to evaluate each of the applications and, if necessary, to object to some of them, as should be done in the case of pakistan. we voted against this resolution and in favour of the resolution tabled by our group which set out the concerns and the position described above. the inclusion of pakistan on this list - long desired by large economic groups in large countries - despite the fact that this country does not meet the required criteria, will have profoundly negative consequences for portugal and its textile, clothing and footwear sector.
in writing. - i voted not to oppose the said delegated act, allowing the re-establishment of access for myanmar/burma to the generalized tariff preferences and the inclusion of south sudan in the same regime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft decision of the european parliament not to oppose the commission delegated regulation of 30 october 2013 amending annexes i, ii and iv to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 on the application of a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, recalling the need to publish the delegated regulation before 1 january 2014 in order to allow for the timely restoration of access to the generalised tariff preferences for myanmar/burma and the inclusion of south sudan in the scheme.
in writing. − in addition to not allowing parliament to discuss and examine the proposed changes to the list of gsp+ beneficiaries in a serious and individual way, this procedure prevents effective scrutiny of the commission's proposal for the granting of gsp+ - an effectiveness which obviously depends on the ability of parliament to assess each of the applications and, if necessary, to object to some of them, as should be done in the case of pakistan. we voted against this resolution and in favour of the resolution tabled by our group, which set out the concerns and the position described above.
in writing. - this was nothing more than a re-writing of the motion for a resolution which i and five other colleagues tabled in september to the inta committee, seeking to object to the commission's delegated act to add 10 third countries to the gsp+ list. this resolution followed the formal pre-objection i made in the commission and after a priority question to the commission, in which i asked whether the eu had changed its criteria for relations with third countries without informing the ep of these changes. the truth is that i consider it essential for the credibility and the proper functioning of our union from the outset to be in good faith in our external action and to comply with the provisions of article 21 (1) of the lisbon treaty and, secondly, because we must give the co-legislator the place that is due to him in the scrutiny procedure for delegated action in the commission, that is to say the power to analyse in an efficient, rational and individualised way (q.v.) the acts previously delegated. the commission's package approach and the inclusion of pakistan in this list are contrary to the principles i have listed in the last paragraph, and i therefore voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − the european parliament has received a delegated act from the commission, which aims to add 10 countries to the list of gsp+ beneficiaries. the regulation on the generalised system of preferences (gsp) empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts in relation to the inclusion of new countries in the gsp+. unlike the commission, the granting of the gsp+ should be individualised by delegated act, giving parliament the opportunity to assess each of the applications and, if appropriate, to object to the respective delegated act. the commission's decision to submit all applications in a single delegated act makes it impossible to assess each application individually and is a means of forcing pakistan's inclusion in the list. this application, which greatly benefits large economic groups in some large countries, should be considered separately. this country does not fulfil all the conditions for gsp+. if the commission proposal is implemented, the textile, clothing and footwear sectors in portugal will be seriously harmed. for these reasons, we voted in favour of this resolution signed by our group.
in writing. − having led the ep-droi delegation to pakistan last august, i am of the view that a gsp+ status for pakistan may be the best way to encourage implementation of human rights obligations in pakistan, provided that the benchmarks inserted in gsp+ are duly monitored and used by the eu, including the ep. however,i cannot accept the general "delegated act" trough which the commission managed to avoid individualized consideration of each country, as pakistan and all other countires certainly deserved. that is why i voted against this resolution, aligned with my own national delegation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, despite the indications made by my group, because i do not agree with the inclusion of pakistan in annex iii to this regulation, which will allow that country to apply a system of generalized tariff preferences, in particular for the textile sector. this commission decision will have a very serious impact on the eu textile sector and particularly on the textile industry in my country, portugal. i cannot imagine that a country which does not respect the most basic rules of industrial competition, because of various irregularities in the manufacture of its textiles, should have preferential access to the eu market. this decision may be responsible for the death of the textile industry in portugal with the consequences that follow. the eu cannot demand severe austerity measures from the intervening states and at the same time damage their industry, destroying it and increasing the already very high number of unemployed. europe must be more united, or its immediate future is in jeopardy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the greens/eug resolution opposing the european commission delegated act establishing the list of beneficiaries of the special scheme of the generalised system of preferences (gsp+) for three main reasons: first, the commission's decision to include the candidate countries in a package does not allow the european parliament to carry out an individual assessment of each candidate country as regards the fulfilment of the conditions necessary to become a gsp+ beneficiary. secondly, in the case of pakistan, there are legitimate doubts as to the fulfilment of the obligations inherent in the gsp+ status, as the data provided by the commission itself reveal serious shortcomings in the fulfilment of some nuclear conventions, in particular on women's and children's rights. the gsp regulation requires the applicant countries not only to ratify the conventions in question but also to apply them effectively, without serious failings in any of them. thirdly, the granting of the gsp+ scheme, given the margin of appreciation involved, should be based on uniform, objective and impartial criteria and should not be instrumentalised in the service of favouritism or short-term political reasons, as appears to be the case.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution expressing its opposition to the commission delegated regulation and recommending that the commission, in accordance with annex iii to regulation (eu) no 978/2012, adopt a separate delegated act for each country it wishes to add to the list of gsp+ beneficiary countries, considering that it is necessary to give parliament its rightful place in this procedure, namely the power to examine previously delegated acts.
in writing. − the european parliament has received a delegated act from the commission, which aims to add 10 countries to the list of gsp+ beneficiaries. the regulation on the generalised system of preferences (gsp) empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts in relation to the addition of new countries to the gsp+. unlike the commission, the granting of the gsp+ should be individualised by delegated act, giving parliament the opportunity to assess each of the applications and, if appropriate, to object to the respective delegated act. we voted yes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the progress made by the member states in implementing roma strategies is not sufficient. in romania, too, roma integration is more of a declarative process, as the socialist government is failing to effectively implement the strategy. we have funds available but they are not being used properly and joint projects with other member states are almost non-existent. in this context, i would like to welcome the adoption earlier this week by the eu council of the first legal act in the field of roma integration. although this is a recommendation, i hope that it will provide an impetus for national authorities to make more efforts in this area. as i said before, the priorities are: social housing, literacy for roma children, and vaccination campaigns.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution, which strongly condemns discrimination and racism against roma citizens and regrets that fundamental rights continue to be disregarded. we are facing a positive step in the fight against discrimination against these communities. the resolution calls for a mechanism to monitor the effective implementation of the fundamental rights of roma and incidents and hate crimes against this community, as well as situations of violation of these rights, in particular violations of access to and exercise of economic and social rights, the right to freedom of movement and residence, the right to access to health care and education, the right to equality and non-discrimination, the right to the protection of personal data and the prohibition of the creation of records on the basis of ethnic and racial origin. it also condemned any attempt to restrict the right of free movement of roma illegally and called on the member states to put an end to illegal expulsions. all forms of hostility towards roma and, in particular, expressions of hatred in public and political discourse are condemned. it is also intended to actively involve roma representatives and civil society in the creation, management, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies in line with the national roma integration strategies.
in writing. − the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. it is well known that roma are still discriminated against in some parts of europe. although often such discrimination is self-inflicted, the eu must find ways of implementing national policies that allow for better integration of the roma population.
in writing. − member states' policies for the integration of roma into european societies continue to show impractical and unrealistic results. the economic crisis has increased discrimination and the economic and social situation of roma families has worsened, often falling victim to persecution. for the reasons listed above, the european parliament calls on the commission to set up a monitoring mechanism to assess the effective integration of roma communities. it also stressed that, alongside the online tool to support local authorities in applying the rights of free movement of union citizens, it was necessary to raise awareness in european society and take concrete measures to ensure that citizens have full access to their rights and guarantees. we can no longer stand by and watch public demonstrations, persecutions and expulsions against the roma community.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the resolution because it demonstrates a correct position on the integration of the roma people. the document strongly condemns discrimination and racism against roma citizens and deplores the fact that fundamental rights continue to be disregarded. the adoption of this resolution represents a step forward in the fight against discrimination against these communities and recommends that the community countries take effective measures. the resolution urges the commission to define a mechanism to monitor the effective implementation of the fundamental rights of roma and incidents and hate crimes against this community, as well as situations of violation of these rights, in particular violations in the access to and exercise of economic and social rights, the right to freedom of movement and residence, the right to access to health care and education, the right to equality and non-discrimination, the right to the protection of personal data and the prohibition of the creation of records on the basis of ethnic and racial origin. it also condemned any attempts to unlawfully restrict the right of free movement of roma and called on the member states to put an end to unlawful expulsions. all forms of hostility towards roma and, in particular, expressions of hatred in public and political discourse are condemned.
in writing. - i co-signed this joint motion for a resolution because i consider it essential that the european union should adopt a more flexible strategic policy to support the choice of partners in the east, using the various instruments at its disposal and in accordance with our fundamental values and principles. i regret that this summit was marked by the arrest of yulia tymoshenko and also by the decision of the ukrainian authorities to unilaterally decide to abandon negotiations with a view to signing the association agreement, including the establishment of a comprehensive and deep free trade area (cfta) with the european union. it is up to ukraine, a sovereign country, and its people to choose the path they want for their development. i believe, however, that this agreement has missed an opportunity to deepen relations between the european union and ukraine and to meet the european aspirations of ukraine and the majority of its population, who have been very vocal in their support for this aim.
in writing. - the reaction to the (partial) defeat suffered by the eu at the vilnius summit is, as one would expect, arrogant and hypocritical. this resolution does not hide the will to deepen the process of interference in ukraine's internal affairs and alignment with the most reactionary forces in the ukrainian political spectrum, aligned with the interests of the eu and nato. the association agreement, which included a free trade area, entailed the abandonment of key instruments for ensuring the country's economic sovereignty, opening up a fragile economy to competition from the eu's large monopolies. the agreement would be accompanied by the signing of a structural adjustment programme, which would be counterbalanced by an increase in gas tariffs, a wage freeze and further cuts in social spending. regardless of future developments in this process, we advocate an immediate end to the processes of external pressure and interference, allowing the ukrainian people to sovereignly decide on their destiny, freely and in accordance with their interests and aspirations.
in writing. − i maintain that the principles of equality and respect for the rights inherent in sovereignty, non-intervention in internal affairs, good cooperation between states and the good faith fulfillment of obligations under international law, as decided in the framework of the helsinki agreements, are foundations governing international relations between independent states and as such should not be violated in any way. i can therefore only condemn the pressure exerted by russia on a number of eastern partnership countries to force them not to cooperate with the eu. the vilnius summit has shown that russia is exerting pressure on a number of countries in the western partnership, most notably armenia and ukraine. such behaviour is reprehensible on every level.
in writing. − this document is the second part of a procedure to amend the statute of the court of justice of the european union. the first part was adopted on 12 july 2012. the second concerns the increase in the number of judges of the general court to 39 and the criteria for their appointment, since only some member states will be able to appoint two judges. i voted in favour of the document because i agree with the commitments made, namely to keep one judge per member state, preserving geographical balance, and to select the additional judges, irrespective of their nationality, on the basis of suitability for the post.
in writing. the european parliament's majority reaction to the (albeit partial) defeat of the eu at the vilnius summit is, as one would expect, arrogant and hypocritical. this resolution does not hide the will to deepen the process of interference in ukraine's internal affairs, with the whitewashing of the coup attempt promoted by the most reactionary forces - ultra-nationalist and fascist - in the ukrainian political spectrum and aligned with the interests of the eu and nato. the fact is that the association agreement, which included a free trade area, entailed the abandonment of fundamental instruments to ensure the economic sovereignty of the country, opening up a fragile economy to competition from the major eu monopolies. the agreement would be accompanied by the signing of a structural adjustment programme, which would be counterbalanced by an increase in gas tariffs, a wage freeze and further cuts in social spending, in a country where both rights have been sharply reduced. we are in favour of an immediate end to the process of external pressure and interference, allowing the people to decide sovereignly on these and other ways, freely and in accordance with their interests and aspirations.
in writing. − this resolution is not very different from other resolutions on candidate countries, nor is it substantially different from the text adopted for 2012. all the texts have a common matrix: they are full of interference and imposition of the political, economic and social model that corresponds to the interests of the great powers and the eu monopolies. the implementation of the acquis communautaire remains the eu's trojan horse, which requires its full transposition by these countries. its implementation has led (and is leading ever more rapidly) to the destruction of a very significant part of the national productive sectors of the countries which have joined the eu, opening the way for the entry and domination of the monopolies of the great powers. the resolution continues to defend the path of privatisation or the dismantling of essential public services, or the destruction of thousands of smes and small and mediumsized farmers and the destruction of millions of jobs. this resolution makes little or no reference to the socioeconomic impacts and consequences of the implementation of the acquis communautaire. we reiterate once again our defence of albania's sovereignty and independence, and of the right of its people to decide - free from any outside interference or pressure - whether or not they wish to join the eu.
in writing. − countries seeking to join the union must demonstrate, at all stages of the accession process, their capacity to strengthen the practical implementation of the values on which the union is founded, and must establish and promote, from an early stage, the proper functioning of the institutions fundamental to democratic governance and the rule of law, from the national parliament to the government and the judiciary, including courts and prosecutors, as well as law enforcement agencies. the eu accession process should become a driving force for further reforms and the main factor in ensuring constructive and responsible cooperation between the country's political apparatus. the fact that the june 2013 elections were conducted in an orderly manner and that the transfer of power was peaceful has had a positive impact on the democratization process of the country and has improved its image internationally. albania, thanks to its reform efforts, and provided that the albanian people so wish, can move to the next stage of the accession process in 2013, i.e. to assume the status of a candidate country for accession, provided that it achieves the critical mass of concrete results in the main outstanding areas of the ongoing reforms.
in writing. − this resolution is not very different from other resolutions on eu candidate countries, nor is it substantially different from the text adopted for 2012. all the texts have a common matrix: they are full of interference and imposition of the political, economic and social model that corresponds to the interests of the great powers and the eu monopolies. the implementation of the acquis communautaire remains the eu's trojan horse, which requires its full transposition by these countries. its implementation has led (and is leading ever more rapidly) to the destruction of a very significant part of the national productive sectors of the countries which have joined the eu, opening the way for the entry and domination of the monopolies of the great powers. the resolution continues to defend the path of privatisation or the dismantling of essential public services, or the destruction of thousands of smes and small and mediumsized farmers and the destruction of millions of jobs. we reiterate once again our defence of albania's sovereignty and independence and the right of its people to self-determination, for the exercise of which it is essential to guarantee their right to decide - free from any outside interference or pressure - whether or not they wish to join the eu.
in writing. - if anyone had doubts about the complicity of the majority of the european parliament - right-wing and social democrats - in the destruction of democratic rights and achievements, particularly in the labour, social and political spheres, in the attack on national sovereignty and the imposition of a neo-colonial rule on sovereign countries and their peoples, this resolution once again makes this responsibility clear. the text adopted shows that the crisis of capitalism is worsening, and with it the crisis of the eu and the militaristic offensive of imperialism. the crisis exposes the limits and contradictions of the system and of the eu itself. the militarisation of international relations, the international division of zones of influence, the instrumentalisation of the un, the promotion of war, occupation and neo-colonialism, with the main objective of controlling access to and securing control of increasingly scarce natural resources, particularly energy, markets and strategic routes, are all realities present in this resolution. inseparable from the deepening of neoliberalism and federalism, the next european council meeting will follow up on the eu's full assimilation of the new strategic concept of nato, decided in lisbon in 2010, thus confirming the eu as the european pillar of this criminal organisation. these developments pose a serious threat to peace and security in europe and the world.
in writing. - on 19 and 20 december, the european council will meet again, with the main topics on the agenda being the defence policy of the european union and economic and monetary union. on the defence front, i believe it would be appropriate to study the possible creation of a joint military force to act at international level in humanitarian conflicts, and the european union could have a more rapid and efficient reaction capability. i also believe that it would be a good thing to give a boost to the eu's defence industrial policy and to set up a council of defence ministers. as regards economic and monetary union, i believe that it is time to move forward with the creation of it and not to postpone new agreements which will be fundamental to re-establishing the credibility of the european union as a whole, especially the euro zone.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of women and girls are protected and that the rights of men and women are protected. the text adopted shows that the crisis of capitalism is worsening, and with it the crisis of the eu and the militaristic offensive of imperialism. the crisis exposes the limits and contradictions of the system and of the eu itself, which are reflected in the militarization of international relations, the division of international zones of influence, the instrumentalization of the un, the promotion of war, occupation and neo-colonialism, with the main objective of controlling access to and ensuring the domination of increasingly scarce natural resources, particularly energy, markets and strategic routes. the next european council meeting on 19 and 20 december will follow on from the decisions and the new strategic concept of nato, confirming the eu as the european pillar of this criminal organisation.
in writing. - this report is moving forward with the most serious guidelines. a legal and institutional architecture is defined which not only seeks to consolidate eternal austerity by bringing the budgetary treaty into the legal order of the european union, but also creates additional conditions to enforce its application. it is even proposed that future amendments to the treaty may be brought into force even against the will of one fifth of the member states. the commission is proposing to extend the principle of reverse majority, adopted in the budgetary treaty, to automatic sanctions against countries found to be in breach of the rules, limiting their defence possibilities. it is agreed that the council, on the recommendation of the commission, should be supported in adopting binding economic policy guidelines for the euro area countries in the framework of the european semester. it calls for the council's voting procedures requiring unanimity to be replaced, with rare exceptions, by qualified majority voting, thus eliminating an important instrument for defending the vital interest of each state and one of the few guarantors of its equality. however, the word 'referendum' has been banned from the vocabulary of those who now approve this report. it is significant that the above proposals were voted in favour by the psd, cds, ps and also by the independent member of the green group.
in writing. − the treaties provide for a number of options and instruments for differentiated integration, including territorial scope limitations, safeguard clauses, derogations, enhanced cooperation, and specific provisions for member states whose currency is the euro. i agree with this report which makes a number of suggestions for improving the economic coordination of the european union, as well as strengthening the own resources and budgetary capacities, and the democratic role and responsibility of the european commission. i also stress the importance of a revision of the treaty to change the voting procedures in the council which require unanimity, qualified majority, a legal framework for european agencies with the capacity to carry out specific executive functions and the involvement of the social partners in the future revision.
in writing. - this report is moving forward with the most serious guidelines. a legal and institutional architecture is defined which not only seeks to consolidate eternal austerity by bringing the budgetary treaty into the legal order of the european union, but also creates additional conditions to enforce its application. it is even proposed that future amendments to the treaty may be brought into force even against the will of one fifth of the member states. the commission is proposing to extend the principle of reverse majority, adopted in the budgetary treaty, to automatic sanctions against countries found to be in breach of the rules, limiting their defence possibilities. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - this report is mainly the result of the bad conscience of the european parliament, which, by railing against the (exaggerated and illegitimate, they say) power of the european council, by speaking out against what they call the intergovernmental method and by brazenly defending the role of parliament, co-decision and the community method, always, but always, ends up accepting and reproducing the positions of the european council, even those which it had previously criticised. it is parliament itself that is diminishing and losing credibility, as was clear throughout the process of approving the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, in which parliament obediently acted on what it had previously said it would never accept. this is not surprising, since parliament reproduces the inequalities between states that exist in the council on the one hand and the majorities that exist in the governments of the member states on the other. only this repetitive and tedious farce was unnecessary. now, in the pre-electoral context and for the electorate to see, they are coming forward with a few more recommendations to strengthen the role of parliament. anyway, the usual proof of life. useless and inconsequential. in addition to all this, we obviously reject the whole federalist approach underlying this report. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the lamassoure report on relations between the european parliament and the institutions representing national governments, in particular the european council, which i regard as one of the most important documents of the ep's reflection on one of the most unexpected constitutional developments of the lisbon treaty, which was the taking over of power by the european council, composed of the heads of government of the member states and endowed with its own presidency. indeed, it is becoming clear that the european council is becoming a key element in the institutional architecture of the union, clearly exceeding the powers conferred on it by the treaties, even constraining the political-legislative powers of the council (of ministers) and parliament and the executive powers of the commission. the constitutional distortion is all the more worrying, since it is true that, by the very nature of things, the very power of political guidance conferred on the european council by the treaties is not binding on the european parliament. as the report points out, the decisive test will be how the european council will respect or not the indication of the vote of the european citizens in the next elections to the ep on the candidates for president of the commission.
in writing. - the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, took account of the information and transparency requirements, which were further developed through meetings with committee chairmen or rapporteurs of the european parliament to discuss a number of important issues. i believe that every meeting of the european council should be preceded by a debate in the european parliament on the subject under discussion at the meetings concerned, and that the european parliament itself should adopt a position which is taken into account by the european council. i am voting in favour of this report, since it calls for greater interinstitutional cooperation between the various bodies of the european union, improving the exchange of information and the existence of informative debates.
in writing. − parliament is often discredited, as was clear from the whole process of adopting the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, in which parliament obediently acted on what it had previously said it would never accept. now, in the pre-electoral context and for the electorate to see, they are coming forward with a few more recommendations to strengthen the role of parliament. anyway, the usual proof of life. useless and inconsequential. in addition to all this, we obviously reject the whole federalist approach underlying this report. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. the resolution welcomes the communication and welcomes the commission's recognition of the importance of preserving biodiversity in europe, protecting and restoring natural ecosystems by creating a green infrastructure that effectively protects natural capital, conserves natural habitats and species and maintains the good ecological status of water bodies. the establishment of technical standards and the development of a trans-european network of green infrastructure is advocated, taking this into account in planning and financing decisions. it is necessary to integrate green infrastructure into sectoral policies and ensure its adequate funding. in this respect, the recent weakening of the budget and the reorientation of its priorities cannot but be a cause for serious concern. it is also important that the budgetary resources that may be allocated for this purpose should be allocated within the framework of public ownership and management of the infrastructure concerned. the budget of the european union could and should support these efforts, combining economic and social cohesion with environmental preservation.
in writing. − green infrastructure should help nature to unlock the full potential of the ecosystem services it can provide to society. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to integrate green infrastructure into all the sectoral policies of the european union and the corresponding financing mechanisms, emphasises the positive effects on climate change mitigation and contributes to water filtration, the prevention of soil erosion and the preservation of the water table. finally, i believe it is essential that the private sector's participation in new green infrastructure investments be increased and that the european investment bank should create financing mechanisms that include the existence of green infrastructure investments.
in writing. - the resolution welcomes the communication and welcomes the commission's recognition of the importance of preserving biodiversity in europe, protecting and restoring natural ecosystems by creating a green infrastructure that effectively protects natural capital, conserves natural habitats and species and maintains the good ecological status of water bodies. the establishment of technical standards and the development of a trans-european network of green infrastructure is advocated, taking this into account in planning and financing decisions. the budget of the european union could and should support these efforts, combining economic and social cohesion with environmental preservation.
in writing. the annual report of the european central bank (ecb) covers the development of the monetary policy pursued by the ecb during the year. this policy was essentially aimed at offsetting the negative effects of the european economic crisis and the sovereign debt crisis and was an essential instrument for stabilising the financial markets and the banking sector and for alleviating the financing conditions of member states in greater difficulty, as was the case in portugal. despite the ecb's active role, structural economic reforms and the consolidation of public accounts should be pursued vigorously in the member states. although the ecb's role is essentially to ensure price stability, i.e. to safeguard the value of the euro, its contributory role in resolving the crisis can and has been a guarantee and back-up of the impetus for european economic recovery. in this context, parliament considered it essential that the ecb should take all possible action within its mandate, ensuring that the transmission of monetary policy is effective and contributes to the recovery of the real economy, as well as being a confidence-building element in the recovery of the euro area. i welcome the recommendations mentioned.
in writing. the annual report of the european central bank (ecb) covers the development of the monetary policy pursued by the ecb during the year. these were mainly intended to offset the negative effects of the european economic crisis and the sovereign debt crisis and were essential instruments for stabilising financial markets and the banking sector, as well as for alleviating the financing conditions of member states in greater difficulty, as was the case in portugal. despite the ecb's active role, structural economic reforms and the consolidation of public accounts should be pursued vigorously in the member states. although the ecb's role is essentially to ensure price stability, i.e. to safeguard the value of the euro, its contributory role in resolving the crisis can and has been a guarantee and back-up of the impetus for european economic recovery. in this context, parliament considered it essential that the ecb should take all possible action within its mandate, ensuring that the transmission of monetary policy is effective and contributes to the recovery of the real economy, as well as being a confidence-building element in the recovery of the euro area. i welcome the recommendations mentioned.
in writing. the report recognises that europe's banking system remains fragile. nevertheless, it insists on the apology of the system, the policies and the guidelines that have brought us to the present situation. the main objective is to promote the concentration and centralisation of capital in the euro area and across the eu, through bank closures, mergers and acquisitions that will only benefit the giants of the eu banking sector. it was not for lack of a supervisory mechanism and lack of transparency that unemployment increased in the eurozone, that the average public debt rose to 92.7%. the contraction of markets and of consumer power was caused by the loss of purchasing power of wages and their replacement by credit. the burst was inevitable and when it did occur, governments tried to convert monumental private debts (of banks, for example) into public debt quickly. the rapporteur forgets the role played by the ecb in hindering the refinancing of large capital, promoting the dependence of the states on its financing vis-à-vis the large european financial economic groups and its responsibility in imposing bankruptcies, unemployment, the destruction of labour rights and public services (education, education, social security) in the countries under interference. we voted against it.
in writing. − according to the european commission services' spring 2013 forecast, gdp in the euro area fell by 0.6% after rising by 1.4% in 2011 and will contract by 0.4% in 2013 before rising again by 1.2% in 2014. i would like to congratulate the president of the european central bank, mario draghi, on the ambitious measures implemented in 2012 that have done much to stabilise the banking sector and help unlink banks from state power. this was a key ecb action that gave member states and national banks a new capacity to refinance themselves and to establish their credibility on international markets. i also believe that the european banking system remains fragile and needs to be restructured and consolidated by developing a genuine banking union which is a long way from being achieved by european leaders.
in writing. − the report reaffirms the support for the banking union project whose main objective is to promote the concentration and centralisation of capital in the euro area and across the eu by way of bank closures, mergers and acquisitions which will only benefit the giants of the eu banking sector. it was not for lack of a supervisory mechanism and lack of transparency that unemployment increased in the eurozone, that the average public debt rose to 92.7%, that the overall volume of all instruments in the money market suffered a 14% reduction. the contraction of markets and of consumer power was caused by the loss of purchasing power of wages and their replacement by credit, the crisis we are experiencing is the result of the contradiction between overproduction and over-accumulation of the means of production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment from harmful substances. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion are a serious problem faced by eu member states. each year, €1 billion is lost due to these tax evasions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the activities of the european parliament's committees and the european parliament's committees. i did not support the ecr resolution, as i do not explicitly support the approach of this resolution to the interest of efficient tax collection as more focused on the national interest. i supported, however, resolution b7-0552/2013 of the ppe, alde and s&d group, which stresses the need for greater harmonisation of member states' tax systems, the importance of collecting lost tax revenues (to be invested in strategies for growth, employment and balanced budgetary accounts) and the importance of credible fiscal systems in sustaining citizens' trust.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of criteria for determining when recovered paper ceases to be waste, because i was opposed to the commission's proposal, which in my view could have negative consequences for the environment, as it would introduce an increased risk to the recycling of waste paper in the european union by favouring its transfer to third countries.
in writing. - tax fraud and evasion are a serious problem faced by eu member states. each year, about €1 billion (€2000 per citizen) is lost due to these tax evasions. it is urgent to combat this problem and make tax collection more efficient, since all the capital wasted annually could be used constructively in the fight against the economic crisis and in measures to promote growth and the well-being of our citizens. i support the resolution of the european people's party, which stresses the need for greater harmonisation of the tax systems of the member states, the importance of collecting lost tax revenues (which could be invested in growth and employment strategies and balanced budgetary accounts), and the importance of credible tax systems in supporting citizens' trust in their justice. i am voting in favour of this text, which calls for a reduction in the potential tax evasion, commends the actions taken so far by the european commission, but also calls for concrete measures such as the creation of indicators to measure tax evasion and its incorporation into the objectives of european economic governance.
in writing. - this resolution is vague, ambiguous and inconsistent in the necessary fight against tax evasion and avoidance. nothing is said about the effects of the free movement of capital; about the eu's complicity in the transfer of vast financial resources and public funds to the banking system by the states and the ecb; about tax havens and the immediate need to dismantle them to prevent the transfer to these centres of tax crime of billions of euros that do not pay taxes. nor is there any mention of the need to increase tax revenues from those who contribute little or nothing in the tax field but have considerable means and wealth. nor is there any reference to the so-called memoranda of understanding imposed on countries such as portugal and the profound impacts of the imposition of privatisation of public enterprises - some of them highly profitable and generating high tax revenues. nor is there any mention of the closure of thousands of businesses and the consequent destruction of many hundreds of thousands of jobs, with the consequent loss of tax revenue and the burden on social security. what they want is to reduce the tax payments of monopolies more and more and to increase their subsidies, tax exemptions and other types of support.
in writing. - it is widely accepted that tax fraud and evasion represent a significant loss of revenue for eu member state governments. this implies an increase in member states' deficit and debt levels as well as a reduction in the funds available to promote public investment, growth and employment. on the other hand, tax fraud and evasion undermine citizens' confidence in the fairness and legitimacy of tax collection. we must therefore make every effort to avoid the continuation of practices which harm everyone.
in writing. - i voted against this motion for a resolution because i consider that the commission and the council are well prepared to deal with the problem of potential tax evasion in the union, in particular by paying attention to the intensification of the fight against tax fraud and evasion and aggressive tax planning. i also regard the commission's proposals to extend the automatic exchange of information, to combat vat fraud and to amend the directive on parent companies and subsidiaries as very positive instruments to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, objectives which should be taken into account in line with eu2020 and the european semester, as provided for in an alternative resolution which i supported.
blue-card question. – would ms korhola agree that, in view of doubts that many colleagues have and that she herself expresses in her statement, the most important thing we ought to ask of the chinese authorities – given that they have recognised that the problem exists and are changing the legislation and the system to harvest organs – is actually full disclosure of donors and full disclosure of executed prisoners?
blue-card question. – is it not our role to ask the chinese authorities for full disclosure and identification of the people who are donors of organs and the prisoners who are executed, so that there will be no doubt and that there will indeed be a system that controls who provides which organs to whom?
the european parliament has already adopted several resolutions on the situation in sri lanka, pointing out problems in the process of national reconciliation. i visited sri lanka in 2011 as part of a delegation of my group. at that time, there were many doubts but there was still hope that the reconciliation commission, set up by the government to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity committed during the war period and, in particular, at the end, would work. unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that this is not happening. the international requirements for the independence of this commission have not been met, there is still no justice for the victims, there is still no punishment for those responsible for the horrors committed, especially at the end of the war. and instead of cooperating with international bodies, the government chooses to denounce and slander critics, contest investigations by independent organizations and silence those who fight for truth and the most basic democratic freedoms in sri lanka. that is why this parliament asks the government to support, and supports, the recommendations of the un high commissioner, navi pillay, and will endeavour, if that does not happen, to have the un human rights council set up an independent international mechanism to carry out a serious investigation. it is a vital issue for peace in sri lanka. reconciliation must be based on justice, without it peace can be...
