better anticipation and management of restructuring would help employees and companies to adapt to the transitions imposed by globalisation. management and employee representatives are the main actors who need to agree on company-wide restructuring strategies. such restructuring should, however, be accompanied by policy interventions to avoid social problems and promote new skills and jobs. this can avoid massive redundancies and the decline of entire regions or the complete relocation of industrial sectors. for example, the recent departure of a major company from romania was a hasty one, without a proper analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of this relocation, without taking firm guarantees for the social protection of the employees who were left without jobs. i therefore thank the rapporteur for this complex report, which analyses these situations in depth and seeks general solutions.
i congratulate mr cercas on his report. economic growth is based on creating and maintaining jobs in europe, and these depend on the development of european industry. we call on the commission to re-examine the union's industrial and competitiveness policy, including through the lens of security and accessibility of energy and raw materials supplies. in mr cercas' report, parliament asks the commission to examine whether it is necessary to take measures at european level to supervise the activities of undertakings in order to avoid any kind of abuse involving damage, in particular to workers. i think that in restructuring situations it is important for the company to consult not only the unions in the location where the restructuring is taking place but all the unions in the locations where the company produces on european territory. we ask the commission to present as soon as possible, after consulting the social partners, a proposal for a legal act on the information and consultation of workers.
at european level, the main objective of the information and consultation of workers is to strengthen social dialogue with a view to ensuring a coherent package of social measures in all member states. this will certainly lead to the prevention and management of restructuring processes, especially in this difficult period of economic and social crisis, which is felt in all areas. i consider it important to set a general minimum framework of the necessary requirements relating to the right of workers to be informed and consulted throughout the community and in line with the guidelines of the 2020 strategy on social policies. we know that when a restructuring decision is taken, the process as such does not affect just one company, as companies work more in networks. measures taken at european level to prevent such situations for both workers and employers must therefore be robust and limit the impact of restructuring.
question for the blue card. i would like to ask our esteemed colleague if the youth unemployment rate is the only thing that worries her. i think we should also be concerned about the drop-out rate, because both youth unemployment and the drop-out rate are putting the future of the european union at risk. that is why i believe that a priority for the european union, the commission and the member states should be not only to provide quality education and training to ensure vocational qualifications, but above all to create jobs.
among the european employment problems, high youth unemployment is one of the most pressing, as it has a negative impact on the demographic situation as well as on social systems. the introduction of the youth guarantee at member state level would be a huge step towards reversing these trends, but the measure also raises a number of questions. at present, the form of financing that would allow all member states to introduce the youth guarantee is not in sight, as esf resources are already in place and member states' budgets are concentrated on deficit reduction targets. perhaps even more questionable is the lack of consultation with potential partners - public authorities, industry representatives, educational institutions - which would have to be done by each member state individually, and without which such a programme cannot succeed. the youth guarantee could play an important role in mitigating the impact of the european economic situation on young generations, but its implementation poses serious problems due to the lack of preparation and dedicated funds.
the committee on industry, research and energy is the rapporteur for the opinion. − it must be understood that cohesion policy is fundamental for the whole union, as its success will mean that less developed areas are integrated into economic and trade circuits, to the benefit of all member states. i therefore hope and at the same time ask the european council not to reduce the funds allocated to cohesion policy in the future multiannual financial framework. as rapporteur for the itre opinion, i believe it is important that the structural funds also contribute to the financing of energy projects, and especially in the less developed areas, particularly in the east of the union. i also want to stress the need for investment in energy efficiency, including in the housing sector, which must also be supported at local level through financial mechanisms such as loans, grants or non-repayable loans. large energy infrastructure development projects should also be prioritised and coordination between the structural funds and new instruments such as the connecting europe facility is important in this regard.
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the work they have done in preparing the reports under discussion. the concrete measures and actions proposed are intended to ensure that, through cohesion policy and the structural funds, we succeed, at least in the next programming period, in revitalizing the economy and increasing the competitiveness of all member states. i would like to welcome the attention paid to cities, especially as urban areas have felt, perhaps most acutely, the effects of the economic crisis, facing indeed serious problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty. given the key role of cities in achieving the economic, social and environmental objectives of strategy 2020, it is clear that we will only be able to compete globally if we effectively exploit the development potential of urban regions and areas through cohesion policy. a particularly important aspect is the need to promote investment in energy infrastructure and actions aimed at improving energy efficiency, which is so important in regional development. the structural funds have a key role to play in achieving all these objectives and that is why we must ensure that, for the next programming period, the necessary measures are taken at both the european commission and the member states level to ensure the highest possible absorption rate of these funds and an appropriate allocation of the necessary funding. first of all, we need simpler, clearer procedures to reduce red tape and to ensure that administrative capacity is strengthened and, if necessary, that local and regional authorities are genuinely involved in the decision-making process, as well as greater flexibility in the allocation of european funds.
cohesion policy is an investment instrument that supports competitiveness, stimulates economic growth, creates employment and promotes sustainable development. the proposals for drastic cuts, by tens of billions, in cohesion policy funding in the post-2014 financial framework, if they come to pass, will reduce the effectiveness of programmes and take us further away from the objectives set, and the convergence regions, including those in my country, will be the most affected. territorial cooperation, a key factor in reducing disparities between european regions, will also suffer greatly. urban areas are at the heart of territorial development in the eu, supporting regional competitiveness and being the main driver of job creation. for these reasons, migration to urban centres is continuously increasing globally, but also in europe. on the other hand, cities are the most vulnerable to the effects of the economic crisis and the rapid process of globalisation, with disastrous economic and social effects. they face challenges such as suburbanization, unemployment, social exclusion and, more recently, climate change, to which they need to identify a rapid response that is as relevant to local needs as possible. union policies should aim at increasing the administrative capacity of city authorities, supporting economic and social actors through the effective use of financial engineering tools, promoting networks between cities, such as the initiative ... (president interrupts)
question for the blue card. i ask mrs jordan if she thinks that only renewable energy should be promoted for sustainable cities and if she thinks that the funds allocated so far for energy efficiency in housing, namely that 4% flexibility rate from the european regional development fund, are sufficient. i think we should have a minimum of 10 to 15 percent, so that we can ensure efficient transportation across cities and, most importantly, energy efficiency in housing.
in writing. the eu's decision to simplify the process of launching the european union solidarity fund and, in particular, the decision to advance the amount intended to support local and regional authorities in affected areas, is beneficial for eu states and regions affected by disasters. the union countries themselves must also consider how to remove the obstacles to the launch of the procedure for requesting assistance for the affected regions. on the other hand, i believe it is in the interest of all the actors involved in the regions of the union to make this instrument of european solidarity known to the communities of which they are part, so that the request for aid can be made quickly and the aid can come as quickly as possible.
in writing. the eu solidarity fund is a proven and important instrument, particularly in flood relief in some member states. i also believe that the future operation of the fund must cover a wider area of natural disasters and their consequences, for example the serious consequences for agriculture of extreme weather events - strong winds, hail - or drought. such events have occurred over the past year in eastern european countries such as romania, with serious consequences for food security. i would point out that the fund's intervention would not, as has been said, duplicate any intervention through the common agricultural policy, but would only complement it, which is necessary.
all citizens have the right to a high level of transparency and efficiency when interacting with the union institutions. at the same time, legal certainty should be enhanced in those relations. since citizens are increasingly faced with such actions, they need to know their rights as much as possible. their lack of confidence in the institutions is a very important and pressing issue, and i, as a member of the committee on petitions, am very familiar with such situations. citizens must receive quick, clear and relevant answers and cumbersome and lengthy procedures must be avoided. that is why i think there should be a set of general principles that promote responsibility and at the same time increase trust. this would be to the benefit of both the citizens and the administration.
mr president, the debate about the future of europe has now reached a crucial stage. the european institutions, member states and politicians are focusing increasingly on economic, financial and monetary issues, which are no doubt of major importance. nevertheless, together with my fellow citizens from eastern europe, i find myself asking: what will post-crisis europe look like? are macroeconomic indicators more important than fundamental values? is it acceptable to slightly disregard the rule of law if one achieves a balanced budget? we eastern europeans lived through the fall of the iron curtain and rushed immediately towards a european union of values. we were eager to reunite with those not forced by history to experience totalitarianism. we are now worried that post-crisis europe could downgrade the universal values of human dignity, liberty, equality and solidarity. macroeconomic indicators must never be substituted for european values.
on 1 january 2014, all barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers will be lifted. 16 member states have already removed barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers, recognising that removing barriers protects both native and migrant workers. i condemn in this regard the irresponsible and anti-european statements made by nigel farage regarding the lifting by the united kingdom, as of 1 january 2014, of barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. the member states must not be afraid to ensure that all workers in the union have a free movement area. the free movement of workers is one of the union's fundamental principles and one of the most cherished benefits created by the european union. i call on the irish presidency of the council of the european union to recommend to the member states that barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers be removed as soon as possible.
i want to draw attention once again to the serious deterioration of the situation of the roma. this ethnic group continues to be the most hated and excluded minority in europe. recently, a fascist organization in romania offered a cash reward to roma women who agreed to be sterilized so as to stop procreating beings that they believed were not human but rather animals. but worse, this kind of unqualified extremist discourse is slowly making its way into political movements at the forefront of public life. for example, a founding member of the ruling fidesz party in hungary said that roma are all murderers, animals incapable of human communication and incapable of coexistence. all this is happening while, in the brussels offices, strategies are being written for nicely packaged but ineffective rums, while silence is total when the speech 'anti-gypsyism' comes up. i ask the commission to come up with a proposal for a legal instrument that constantly addresses manifestations of anti-gypsyism.
the schengen area is the essence of the european construction, through the free movement of people and, by implication, goods. in june 2011, the european parliament gave the green light to romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area, following field visits and technical assessments. the rapporteur appointed by parliament and the group of experts concluded that romania fulfilled all the schengen criteria, which had been assumed by the treaty of accession as early as 2005. today, a year and a half after that event, romania and bulgaria are not yet full members of the schengen area. the socialist-liberal government in bucharest seems to have put accession to the background, as the only country that objected was the netherlands, which is still led by a coalition of socialists and liberals. i hope that the romanian government will resolve the external credibility problems which are currently preventing bulgaria from joining schengen, as a senior european official recently said.
young people who want to get involved in programmes such as the danube strategy often face difficulties arising from the different mindsets generated by their culture and education, the different approach to certain areas, the different degree of development of the danube regions, but also the lack of financial support to allow them to get involved properly. therefore, i believe it is beneficial to create a youth organisation for the danube countries, doubled by the levers necessary for its operation, which would lead to a substantial involvement of the young generation, to create useful connections, to innovative solutions, to exchange good practices, to build their own future in the danube area.
last week, the romanian prime minister criticized a court decision that convicted one of his government allies, dan voiculescu, saying the verdict should be changed. victor ponta then insulted judge cristi daniliec, a member of the superior council of magistracy, for asking politicians to stop threatening judges and challenging final court decisions. for the prime minister in bucharest, whoever defends the independence of the magistrates is his political opponent. in recent days, there has been a campaign of public stigmatization and recall of csm members who want justice without political subordination. the move is backed by politicians' own tv stations. the justification for the campaign would be the majority the government has after the elections of december 9. for ponta, if you have 60% in parliament, you have to control the judiciary. i ask the european commission to watch over this unacceptable backsliding. the separation of executive and judicial powers is being challenged in the name of the will of the people.
this year in romania, as promised by the usl, the ruling leftist coalition, will begin the process of administrative reorganization of the national territory into development regions. this much-needed reform was also proposed by right-wing governments, but it could not be implemented due to the lack of a solid parliamentary majority. the usl now has the majority needed to pass this bill and make it a reality! and we, the opposition politicians, support this project. the objectives of the reorganisation must be to increase the capacity to absorb european funds, to increase local autonomy and to reduce bureaucracy. we have a very high bureaucracy at the moment, which needs to be simplified! the state must be 'substantial', efficient, work for the benefit of its citizens and not be a burden on those who pay taxes and fees. the new administrative organisation of the country must correspond to romania's economic and social development objectives and take into account the development regions, as agreed with the european commission.
the horn of africa is one of the most insecure regions in the world. millions of people live in this area, subjected to constant violence and hunger. the union's involvement in peacekeeping, the promotion of democracy and the eradication of poverty is vital. i therefore consider it appropriate to adopt a union strategy for the horn of africa. this will enable the union to become more involved in building democratic and robust political structures in the region. but for this to be possible, greater cooperation is needed between the countries in the region. resolving territorial disputes is very important to ensure a lasting peace in the horn of africa. restoring trust between neighbouring states will also lead to greater stability in the region. the work of the union special representative for the horn of africa will be very important in the period ahead.
protecting biodiversity is a prerequisite for reducing pressures on the environment. the protection and conservation of genetic diversity is also a key component in achieving the millennium development goals. intellectual property rights to genetic resources and traditional knowledge in developing countries are very important to guarantee equal access to medicines. genetic resources are also of particular importance for sustainable agriculture and food security. the eu's trade policy in the field of intellectual property rights must therefore be consistent with the objective of policy coherence for development. it is essential that the nagoya protocol be ratified as soon as possible. we need a robust tool to combat bio-piracy and restore fairness and equity in the exchange of genetic resources.
during the cypriot presidency i had the opportunity to work with the cypriot presidency both on the digital tachograph file, on which i am a rapporteur, and as a shadow rapporteur on the files on the european agency for information and data security and the galileo project. although we would have liked to have made more progress with these files, i would like to thank the cypriot presidency for the technical meetings we had, without which we would not have reached this advanced stage with these files. i am convinced that, thanks to the cooperation of the cypriot presidency, we will be able to complete these files in the next six months.
in writing. – the cyprus presidency gave extensive support to personalised medicine. a major achievement was the launching of the personalised medicine manifesto which calls for five key actions: 1. ensuring a regulatory environment which allows early patient access to novel and efficacious personalised medicine; 2. increasing research and development for personalised medicine; 3. improving the education and training of healthcare professionals; 4. acknowledging new approaches to reimbursement and hta assessment, which are required for patient access to personalised medicine and its value to be recognised; 5. increasing awareness and understanding of personalised medicine. another important accomplishment of the cyprus presidency was the launching of the report, ‘building an open innovation ecosystem in europe for healthcare’, which proved that economic growth and lower healthcare costs are possible if europe exploits the opportunities of personalised medicine. i am pleased to see that during the irish presidency this issue remains on the political agenda, with an important conference to be held in march on patient access to personalised medicine. in addition to continuing the efforts of the cypriot presidency, i call on the irish presidency to also create a regulatory environment that will enable equal access to innovative medicine in all member states.
in writing. the cypriot presidency had a difficult task, faced with the negotiations for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which were compounded by concerns about the eu crisis, the difficult economic situation in cyprus and the division of the island. under the cypriot presidency, the eu has achieved the goal of a european patent, which is very important for research and innovation and a source of future employment. the 2013 budget was also agreed. work has begun on stability and confidence in europe through reforms in the european banking sector, which is a step forward in protecting the integrity of the euro area. much remains to be done, in particular to agree on the multiannual financial framework, to implement the digital agenda, to the schengen governance package and, in general, to deliver growth and jobs.
cities are currently facing major problems of suburbanization and urban degradation and the marginalisation of vulnerable populations, which has led to economic and social decline. that is why i support the involvement of communities and civil society organisations in urban renewal processes and, in particular, in cohesion policy decisions. i demand transparency from public authorities and i ask them to cooperate with citizens and civil society organizations. urban planning plans must be made public, discussed with local communities and then adopted. concrete projects for cities, which call for european funds, must first be discussed with the people of the community, because they know the needs and priorities best. this measure will give visibility to community actions and help to sustain urban transformations.
in the future cohesion policy, urban areas must play a greater role, as they will continue to be the engines of growth and the creative and innovative centres of the union. for the next planning period, we need to benefit from an ambitious urban agenda with substantial financial resources and increased powers for local authorities in designing and implementing urban strategies. but i believe that this is not enough and that for sustainable regional development we need to develop a framework for integrated, balanced rural-urban development, according to the needs of each region. in this context, i ask the commission to analyse and propose working methodologies for encouraging urban-rural partnerships, which will lead to combating the depopulation of rural areas and, at the same time, stimulating sustainable urban development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, although there has been significant progress towards convergence in the union, inequalities still exist and some of them are widening. territorial cohesion can contribute to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. on the other hand, we must also ensure that the union's immediate objectives of growth and economic competitiveness, as well as employment, are achieved. in this respect, the involvement of local and regional authorities at every stage of funding programmes is essential to ensure that local needs are addressed. and one of the best solutions would be to decentralize decision-making. this can ensure better management of the structural funds and better response of the projects financed to the specific needs of each community.
in writing. − many cities face serious threats of economic stagnation or decline. the european economy is no longer able to provide an adequate level of employment, with a large proportion of the population facing exclusion from the labour market or being forced into low-skilled and low-paid service jobs. this exacerbates disparities, increases income polarization and social segregation. romania is currently considering a possible administrative-territorial reform, in order to manage european funds as efficiently as possible, since the economic and social revitalization of cities requires a rethinking of urban development and territorial planning methodologies. they would be able to enrich environmental, territorial, commercial and commercial transport policies. the administrative capacity of local and regional authorities and economic and social actors needs to be improved by increasing the use of technical assistance - in the management of the structural funds - for real multi-level governance to ensure that objectives are met. the development and promotion of sustainable, cross-functional networks based on good practices is essential to stimulate the formation of integrated urban-rural partnerships, according to the needs of each region.
in writing. - as true centres of influence and economic engines, cities are at risk of becoming overcrowded. it is necessary to mobilise cultural and economic resources for urban transformation in order to fully exploit the development potential and to this end i support the parliament's motion for a resolution on the contribution of urban redevelopment to economic growth within the framework of eu cohesion policy. it is essential that cohesion policy contributes to the development of cities and regions to their full potential. urban regeneration can be a factor in economic recovery through a greater number of investors, companies and even residents.
in writing. − i believe that member states should pay more attention to promoting the closest possible urban-rural relationship, free of conflict and allowing for their complementarity. expansion of peri-urban transport networks and rural connections, both in terms of passenger and freight transport, for the adequate supply of rural localities, as well as improvement of services of all kinds, especially those for the elderly and people with reduced mobility in rural areas, are also beneficial.
in writing. − urban development plays a very important role in achieving the economic, social and environmental objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. like the rapporteur, i believe that local development should be at the heart of cohesion policy. urban development being a very complex area, the report manages to underline the most important problems that need to be addressed, like the dysfunction of demographic development, completion and restoration of existing parts of cities, including marginalised neighbourhoods, management of waste and many more. i agree with other colleagues who said that there is a need to focus aid on the deprived areas of the cities. this report has my full support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the contribution of urban redevelopment to economic growth in the context of eu cohesion policy, as the measures proposed are primarily aimed at economic revitalisation and increasing the competitiveness of european cities. with 80% of europe's citizens living in urban areas and the effects of the economic crisis concentrated mainly in cities, which have felt the effects of the economic crisis the most, facing serious social and environmental problems, we need urgent action to combat climate change, create jobs and increase the well-being and quality of life of citizens. given the key role of urban areas in achieving the europe 2020 objectives, such as economic, social or environmental, it is clear that we will only be able to compete globally if we effectively exploit their development potential through cohesion policy. the structural funds have a key role to play in achieving all these objectives and that is why we must ensure that, for the next programming period, the necessary measures are taken at both commission and member state level to ensure the highest possible absorption rate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the contribution of urban redevelopment to economic growth in the context of eu cohesion policy. cohesion policy supports integrated sustainable urban development across the eu through investments from the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf). we call for decisive action to tackle energy inefficiency through the functional renovation of buildings and the construction of more resource-efficient housing, including social housing. we also support the need for action to reduce congestion, pollution and noise levels so that cities can become more competitive in protecting the environment; we voted for the mobilisation of cultural and economic resources to contribute to urban solidarity, inclusion and social integration of vulnerable and marginalised groups in urban areas. we welcome the provision to delegate to cities the management of specific funds of at least 5% of erdf resources for integrated actions in favour of sustainable urban development. we also call for improving the administrative capacity of local and regional authorities and economic and social actors - for example, by increasing the use of technical assistance. i believe that the covenant of mayors can help to achieve the objectives of the eu strategy.
i believe that the main focus of this report is the integration of european funds for the period 2014-2020. in particular, for romania and other new member states, it is vital to use alternative instruments to ensure easier access to european funding and to remove some of the absorption difficulties we have encountered in the previous period. clearly, these countries, including my own, must also make rapid progress and adopt clear, simple and transparent public procurement procedures, eliminate conflicts of interest, corruption and fraud in the use of european funds and also establish clear records of public property and utilities - i am referring to the land register. however, i also ask the european commission to present, in a clear and detailed manner, the modalities for implementing the new instruments introduced for the integration of funding programmes, so that member states can prepare in advance.
in writing. − the initiative to give member states and regional and local authorities the possibility to use more european funding programmes to support projects they want to undertake at local and regional level is a beneficial one, as this can improve the effectiveness of the provision of financial support at european level. i believe that a flexible approach to the setting of local and regional development objectives, involving all stakeholders, is needed to ensure that european funding programmes meet the needs of the communities that will be supported. i support the efficient use of funding programmes under the union's cohesion policy, which emphasise the quantifiable results of the policy in order to increase the sustainability of the investments made. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in the current economic context, it is clear that cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for europe's regions and there is a greater need to ensure that money is spent more efficiently so that citizens can benefit fully from european funding. the involvement of local and regional authorities at every stage of the planning, development and implementation of european funding programmes is essential to ensure that local needs are addressed. employment and social policies play an important role in sustainable and socially balanced territorial development and make a significant contribution to reducing regional inequalities and increasing the well-being of citizens. the territorial approach should be an effective mechanism to support smes in creating new sustainable jobs or developing vocational training programmes. member states need to improve the current conditions for new entrepreneurs as they contribute to the creation of new sustainable jobs. actions supported by the esf need to be coordinated at different policy levels to allow for an effective territorial approach. educational services and facilities need to be linked to the needs of the local labour market.
in writing. − i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution aimed at optimising the role of territorial development in cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. with disparities between regions widening, territorial development is essential to stimulate economic growth, employment and urban development. i also support the involvement of local authorities in order to make cohesion policy strategies more effective and to meet the economic and social needs of citizens, which are much better perceived by local actors.
in writing. − i believe that a stronger development of public-private partnerships at the level of urban and rural neighbourhoods will allow for a greater involvement of rural areas in the integrated activities of a given region and will also allow for the strengthening of existing links between cities and the countryside and the emergence of new possibilities for cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on optimising the role of territorial development in cohesion policy, because the territorial dimension is a particularly important aspect of cohesion policy, which gives european regions the opportunity to use their individual territorial potential. for the next programming period, we need clear measures to ensure better coordination of european funds, but also a simplified multi-level governance system, which is so necessary in the decision-making process for planning, developing and implementing european funding programmes. but this can only be achieved by involving local and regional actors so that they can contribute to the preparation and implementation of programmes and projects financed with european money. and in this regard, i would welcome the proposals to create a regulatory framework focused on local and integrated development through 'community-led local development', 'joint action plans' and 'integrated territorial investments'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on optimising the role of territorial development in cohesion policy. cohesion policy aims to reduce inequalities between the regions of the union by strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. although significant progress has been made towards convergence between the regions of the union, inequalities between them still exist. we call for the budget for cohesion policy to be at least the same as in the current financial period for the period 2014-2020. i believe that territorial and macro-regional cooperation strategies can be useful tools in identifying and tackling regional disparities and in promoting convergence between european regions. i therefore call for a dedicated budget line for the eu strategy for the danube region for the period 2014-2020. i advocate that local and regional target setting should involve local and regional stakeholders at all stages to ensure that european funding programmes meet the need to tackle social and economic inequalities. they also support proposals to create a regulatory framework focused on local and integrated development through 'community-led local development', 'joint action plans' and 'integrated territorial investments'.
over the last ten years, the solidarity fund has been one of the union's successful instruments, but it needs to be re-adapted to provide new and rapid solutions to the sometimes very serious problems facing european citizens. i therefore ask the commission to be clearer and more transparent in setting the scope of the solidarity fund and in defining clearly, simply and precisely what constitutes a disaster and the conditions for its eligibility at regional level for access to the fund. there must be no room for interpretation, clarity is a condition for using this fund in a transparent, fair and controllable way. this will eliminate legal uncertainty and speculation about the eligibility criteria, which in some cases have generated negative attitudes among citizens, who believe that their problems are not wanted to be solved by the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the implementation of the solidarity fund needs to be improved. firstly, the procedures for allocating funds to each state affected by a disaster must be speeded up. a more flexible definition of the catastrophes that make a state eligible for assistance from this fund would also be useful. in the current economic context, many member states would have difficulty in mobilising large sums of money in the event of natural disasters. i therefore support the rapporteur's idea of introducing advances to be paid immediately after the member state submits the application. this would greatly simplify the current procedure and make disaster relief much more effective.
in writing. − the solidarity fund has proved to be one of the union's most successful and appreciated instruments, being one of the few instruments available to the union to demonstrate its solidarity and closeness to european citizens. the instrument provides support for emergency operations in the event of a disaster, reduces the financial burden on member states in such situations and allows the union as a whole to show solidarity with its citizens facing a difficult situation. it is necessary to improve the effectiveness of the instrument by reducing the time between a disaster and the granting of aid. administrative procedures are slow, complicated and confusing, but this could be avoided by small changes that would not change the fundamental core of the current union regulation. we need to cut red tape to get the fund. the granting of advances would be very useful and appropriate and the merging of procedures and decisions would contribute to significantly accelerating the current procedure. this instrument should remain outside the union budget, as it is not possible to know in advance to what extent it will be used during the year. the instruments that are to provide a response in exceptional and unforeseen crisis situations must remain extra-budgetary instruments.
in writing. − i support this resolution, stressing the need to reduce the duration of the mobilisation of the fund, which prevents a prompt and effective response to emergencies faced by the member states, and its adaptation to new realities. in order to increase the operationality of the implementation of the fund, it is also essential to reduce bureaucracy. the solidarity fund is the european union's main instrument for assistance in the event of natural disasters in the member states and the acceding countries. strengthening its effectiveness would not only provide an excellent image of the european union, but would also confirm once again the solidarity with which the eu acts on behalf of its citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the implementation and application of the solidarity fund. this instrument aims to provide financial support to member states and regions affected by major natural disasters and is based on the principle of solidarity enshrined in the treaty. the fund was used both to repair housing damaged by the 2009 earthquake in the abruzzo region and to restore infrastructure damaged by the 2005 floods in austria. in this context, the process of reviewing the financial instrument proposed in this report and aiming at broadening its scope and application is welcomed.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund has proved its worth during its implementation period, being one of the union's most successful and appreciated instruments. however, from my own experience, i regret to tell you that the current time taken to mobilise the fund is unacceptably long and that for this reason many of the results that were intended to be achieved through the use of this fund have been undermined. as i have said in my amendments, i believe that we urgently need to improve the administrative framework and the procedures for mobilising the fund. this, coupled with the merging of grant decisions and implementing agreements at commission and member state level and the introduction of fixed advance payments as soon as the affected state has requested assistance, will lead to improved effectiveness of the funds and will accelerate the process of assisting states affected by a major disaster.
in writing. − i believe that the future operation of the fund must cover a wider area of natural disasters and their consequences, for example the severe agricultural consequences of extreme weather events - strong winds, hail - or drought. such events have occurred over the past year in eastern european countries such as romania, with serious consequences for food security. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european union solidarity fund, implementation and enforcement. the european union solidarity fund (eusf) is the eu's main instrument for responding to major natural disasters and showing solidarity with europe's disaster-stricken regions. i support the need to simplify the bureaucratic processes required to mobilise this eu instrument, so as to reduce the time between the time of the disaster and the time when the affected member state or region receives aid. the majority of solidarity fund assistance applications (63%) were submitted under the exceptional category 'regional disaster', and 66% of these were rejected following the commission's assessment. the regulation provides for special attention to be paid to remote and isolated regions and requires that these criteria be examined by the commission 'with the utmost rigour'. given that both the intensity and frequency of natural disasters in europe have continued to increase, i believe that it is necessary to clearly and simply define regional disasters and to clarify their eligibility.
mr president, the european citizens have a fundamental right to good administration that is key to good governance. people are entitled to a swift and efficient reply to their request. this right is founded in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights. a regulation on a european law of administrative procedure will make clear the principal of good administration that all institutions must respect. transparency, efficiency, cost efficiency and a unitary practice must be the objectives of this regulation. by giving eu institutions clear guidelines for action, we will improve the union’s administrative capacity. this regulation will create a unitary code of conduct across different institutions and make possible external monitoring. citizens must be able to control the work and practices of the european institutions. this would of course increase direct accountability and also the people’s trust.
in writing. − the lack of a coherent set of codified rules of administrative law in the european union does not facilitate citizens' understanding of their rights under union administrative law. i believe that european legislation on administrative procedural law will help the eu administration to use its internal organisational assets to facilitate and promote the highest standards in administration; will enhance the union's legitimacy and public confidence in the union's administration; will promote cooperation and the exchange of good practice between national administrations and the union's administration.
in writing. − the eu's direct administrative system needs common rules on administrative procedures for efficiency, harmony and transparency. the lack of a coherent set of laws makes it difficult for citizens to engage in direct administration. clearer and faster responses to their requests are needed, which would help to increase public confidence in the european administrative apparatus.
in writing. − the citizens of the european union must have full confidence in the european institutions, because we must not forget that their legitimacy depends precisely on the confidence of eu citizens in the community structures. i believe that the drawing up and adoption of a regulation on administrative procedures will increase the sense of security for the citizens of the union on the one hand, and for the union's officials on the other.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the recommendations to the commission on european union administrative procedural law. citizens have the right to transparency, prompt resolution and response from the union administration, whether by lodging a formal complaint or exercising their right to petition under the treaty. at the same time, citizens must be given information on the possible actions they can take in their case. unfortunately, a pressing problem for the eu is a lack of trust from citizens, and a european administrative procedural law would enhance the union's legitimacy and citizens' trust in its administration. a european administrative procedural law would assist the union administration in using its internal organisation powers to facilitate and promote the highest standards of administration. i voted in favour of the request to the commission to submit, under article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a regulation on a european administrative procedural law, following the recommendations of the european parliament.
mr president, the european strategy 2020 states that better anticipation and management of restructuring would help employees and companies to adapt to transition. with the financial crisis, the number of cases of restructuring has been increasing in europe and this has created fear among workers that their own companies might be on the verge of restructuring. this whole climate of insecurity sets up a vicious circle with a great impact on our economy. how can we sustain a dynamic economy if its own actors feel insecure? i call on the commission to take measures to convince companies of the need to inform and consult the relevant local public authorities and workers about their restructuring decisions. however, a directive on the issue is not needed. what companies and workers need are guidelines and good practices to deal with such situations. predictability is one of these.
in writing. − one of the most important problems facing european societies at the moment is the size of unemployment in european economies. beyond the monetary aspects, the scale of this phenomenon significantly calls into question the european union's objective of achieving sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. according to the latest european statistics, the unemployment rate is still above 10%, with more than 20 million european citizens looking for a new job. in these circumstances, it is imperative that economic restructuring processes, imposed by the specific dynamics of markets, be accompanied by processes of information and consultation of the relevant social partners. restructuring processes must take place within a framework that takes into account the social responsibility and implicit effects, for example, in view of increasing the employment opportunities for redundant employees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we are in a difficult economic context, where the restructuring of companies implies extremely high costs for employees but also for the local or regional economy. in the current conditions created by the global economic crisis, restructuring of companies unfortunately leads to large-scale layoffs. that is why i believe we need to create a culture in which the management of corporate reorganisation and restructuring is done in a socially responsible way. for this reason, i strongly support the application of concrete rules in this area, both at european and national level. one of the most serious consequences of business restructuring is that young people are among the categories of workers most frequently targeted by redundancies. and this trend is unacceptable, given the extremely high rate of youth unemployment in the eu. it is necessary that all restructuring operations be preceded by adequate information and preparation of all interested parties.
in writing. − i appreciate that there will eventually be a european strategy for managing restructuring processes in a socially responsible way. experience has shown that well-managed restructuring can improve the future of industries, workers, regions and cities affected by technological change, economic crisis or globalisation. the key factors are anticipating change and providing a leadership role in social dialogue. the european commission must present a legislative proposal to minimise social costs, paying particular attention to the most affected sectors and regions. restructuring can be done in a much smarter and longer-term way. as a european issue, we need european legislation to ensure that restructuring is anticipated and managed in a fair and balanced way when it occurs. the commission should present a legal act on anticipation of restructuring, ensuring that minimum requirements exist at eu level when the absence of collective agreements is found during restructuring. the legal act must ensure that all stakeholders are involved in the long-term planning of enterprises, including the social partners as well as local and regional authorities. training must be provided for all workers to anticipate future skills and ensure the competitiveness of the european workforce.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis has led to a deepening of the social crisis, by increasing the number and impact of restructuring. in this context, i support the report with its recommendations to the commission on informing and consulting workers in order to avoid slipping into a deep recession caused by a dramatically high unemployment rate. the social dialogue needs to be regulated at european level, helping to find a solution for informing workers, in order to reduce the number of redundancies and manage restructuring processes through other mechanisms.
in writing. − although national laws on employers' responsibilities towards employees differ considerably in terms of restructuring, this resolution calls for a common set of rules to be found, to the benefit of workers. that's why i gave a final yes vote. i think we need better protection for employees, especially in times of economic crisis. in this respect, i support the idea of transmitting the restructuring decision as many months as possible before it takes effect and of providing retraining courses for employees.
in writing. − i believe that measures taken at european level to prevent such disastrous situations for both workers and employers must be sound and limit the impact of restructuring as much as possible, so that dismissals are not used as a last resort and only after all possible ways of supporting the workers concerned have been explored.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on informing and consulting workers, anticipating and managing restructuring, as i believe that a european legal instrument is needed to lay down concrete rules on social dialogue, the social responsibility of employers and informing workers when a restructuring process is necessary. the report's 14 recommendations are essential to ensure that restructuring, which is increasingly taking place across the european union, is carried out with the involvement and prior information of workers. it is also important that restructuring does not only lead to mass redundancies but also to assist workers in reintegrating into the labour market. to this end, it is also important that available european funds, including the european social fund and the globalisation adjustment fund, are accessed and used in a way that effectively contributes to socially and economically responsible restructuring processes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution containing recommendations to the commission on informing and consulting workers, anticipating and managing restructuring. parliament called on the commission to submit as soon as possible, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and after consulting the social partners, a proposal for a legal act on the information and consultation of workers, anticipation and management of restructuring. the european parliament also calls on the commission to examine whether measures are needed at union level to supervise the activities of undertakings in order to avoid any abuse that would cause harm, in particular to workers. they argue that when the need for restructuring arises, companies should consider redundancies only as a last resort and only after considering all alternative options and identifying and implementing support measures, if appropriate. i voted for the recommendation that existing financial support schemes, channelled through the european regional development fund (erdf) or the european social fund (esf) under the new financial perspective 2014-2020, should not replace national incentives based on anticipation, preparation and responsible management. i also supported the continuation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) with a strengthened capacity to act reactively, temporarily and palliatively.
mr president, the tannock report gives good and wise recommendations for the union’s future actions in the horn of africa. the election in september 2011 of a new somali president has created a window of opportunity for this war-torn region. the union is the most important donor and provider of humanitarian aid in the region. therefore, we must continue to encourage efforts for deeper democracy, political stability and economic development. poverty is one of the most important obstacles to long-lasting peace. the latest statistics provided by the food and agriculture organization, in march 2012, show that more than 8 million people are in need of assistance. this report emphasises that a european security strategy must also tackle poverty, which is one of the root causes of conflicts in the religion. i share this view and urge the commission to continue its efforts to raise the necessary funding.
in writing. − the horn of africa is one of the most food insecure regions in the world, with millions of people living in the region undernourished and at risk of hunger. this is one of the regions with the highest levels of poverty and lack of governance in the world, and human and especially food insecurity is amplifying the severe humanitarian crises in the region. the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa should therefore be implemented and its five pillars supported, based on: building democratic, robust and accountable political structures in all countries in the horn of africa; working with the countries of the region and regional and international organisations to resolve conflicts, including by addressing their root causes; taking measures to ensure that insecurity in the area does not threaten the security of other neighbouring states or other regions or countries; supporting efforts to promote economic growth and poverty reduction; supporting regional political and economic cooperation and promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction. as a member of the association of european parliamentarians for africa (awepa), i strongly support the implementation of the eu strategy for the horn of africa and the development of trade at european level with the region.
in writing. − the horn of africa is facing major difficulties in its economic, social and political development. the region is permanently unstable and needs a clear strategy from international actors to eradicate poverty, strengthen regional security, combat piracy and terrorism, and promote social and economic development. a more open dialogue between countries in the horn of africa on issues of common interest such as migration, arms trafficking, energy and natural resources is indispensable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes an analysis of the european union's role in the horn of africa, in the context of the instability facing the region. i believe that the union's engagement in the area must respond both to the problems of the difficult humanitarian and socioeconomic situation and to the need to build responsible, democratic and legal governance structures.
in writing. − piracy in the horn of africa is a strategic threat to the eu, affecting traffic on the main europe-asia corridor. to avoid the suez canal, companies are increasingly using the route that passes the cape of good hope. piracy has thus become a highly profitable criminal activity and an attractive 'career' for young people in the area. the european union must work to encourage local governments to develop long-term educational programmes that give young people in the area a sustainable future. another solution to the problem of piracy is to identify and intercept the financial flows involved. the eu should draw up a 'blacklist' of financial institutions involved in money laundering derived from piracy, and europol and eurojust should play an important role in this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the eu strategy for the horn of africa. the eu is the main provider of international assistance and humanitarian aid in the horn of africa and contributes to the development and security of the region both on land and at sea. the horn of africa is a region with a high level of food insecurity and one of the regions with the highest levels of poverty and lack of governance in the world. we welcome the eu strategy for the horn of africa and call for the full implementation of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa. we also support the five pillars of this strategic framework based on: (i) building democratic and accountable political structures in all countries in the horn of africa; (ii) working with countries in the region and with regional and international actors and organisations to resolve conflicts; (iii) the adoption of measures to ensure that the insecurity existing in the area does not threaten the security of other neighbouring states or other regions or countries; (iv) supporting efforts to promote economic growth and poverty reduction; (v) supporting regional political and economic cooperation; promoting sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction in response to the basic needs of the population.
mr president, the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievements of the millennium development goal 1 project. therefore, it is crucial to adapt intellectual property rights to the case of genetic resources in order to avoid the misappropriation of – or even illicit commercial benefit from – the use of biological resources taken from local communities, for example, and patented at their expense. clarifying intellectual property rights over genetic resources and traditional knowledge is challenging, especially in the case of developing countries. this will have a substantial impact in terms of access to medicine, production of generic drugs and farmers’ access to seeds. i believe that our trade policy must be consistent with the objective of policy coherence for development.
in writing. − the european union is the most important global actor in terms of development support policies. the issue of intellectual property rights to genetic resources, however, raises significant difficulties in many developing countries in both the medical field (access to medicines) and agricultural development. it is important that the european union works towards a coherent policy, ensuring both a robust intellectual property policy and a high degree of coherence between its development policies and its foreign policy. it is equally important that the european union takes responsibility for taking important steps towards combating bio-piracy. one of the first changes that can be made at this level is to develop statistics on this phenomenon, which can provide a basis for developing european policies in the field of the development and protection of intellectual property rights. any changes should also take account of the fair distribution of the benefits of research, in particular to developing countries.
in writing. − i believe that to ensure better ecosystem services, a wide range of genetic resources for food and agriculture is needed, which i believe is essential for both food security and agricultural and ecological sustainability, especially in the current climate change environment.
in writing. − a wide range of genetic resources for food and agriculture is of particular interest for food security, which is essential in the face of accelerating food price increases worldwide and real competition for food globally. i welcome this resolution and draw attention to the need to link all the proposed measures with the efforts to develop research and innovation in agriculture, which are proposed to start with the new european common agricultural policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on intellectual property rights in genetic resources from the perspective of development policy: the impact on poverty reduction in developing countries. intellectual property rights (ipr) over genetic resources and traditional knowledge in developing countries pose challenges in terms of access to medicines, the production of generic medicines and farmers' access to seeds. the eu's trade policy in the field of intellectual property rights must therefore be consistent with the objective of policy coherence for development as set out in the eu treaty. three-quarters of the world's population depends on natural, traditional, herbal medicines, and that's why i think it's important to protect traditional knowledge. biopiracy is commonly defined as the industrial practice of privatizing and patenting traditional knowledge or genetic resources belonging to indigenous peoples without obtaining the authorization of the source countries or offering them adequate compensation. i believe that the fight against bio-piracy requires the implementation and updating of existing agreements on multilateral access and benefit-sharing in agriculture and health, such as the international treaty on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture (itpgr).
madam president, the situation in mali created in the wake of the libyan developments has deteriorated more rapidly than anticipated. the threatening march of the rebels on the capital bamako from their sanctuary in the north has made the intervention of the french forces necessary. this is not exclusively a humanitarian intervention, it is an anti-terrorist intervention based on security concerns under chapter 7 of the un charter meant to restore the sovereignty of the government and authorities over the north of mali and thus eliminate the terrorist sanctuary. the eu, already training the malian armed forces, has the responsibility to see that they are successful in implementing the requirements of un resolution 2085 and to show solidarity with the military action taken by its members. however, even if the military action is motivated and solidly legitimised, one should not forget that it is subject to the fog of war with all its unpredictability, for which we have to be prepared.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, since this is the first occasion at which i have had the honour and great pleasure to address the plenary session of the parliament, allow me to say how much i am looking forward to working with you all over the next six months. i am confident that through good cooperation and indeed a spirit of trust and confidence council and parliament can deliver the results which i think europe’s citizens expect from their institutions. this afternoon’s debate concerns the agreement reached on the credit ratings agency package as you know and let me from the outset express our sincere thanks to the rapporteur, from whom we have just heard, mr domenici, and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work which they have put into this file. i would also like to thank sharon bowles as chair of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, as well as to particularly pay tribute to my cypriot colleagues who have worked hard to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion in november last year. this legislative package will be another step towards better regulation of the financial services industry. credit ratings agencies are a very specific sector, and this set of amendments to the existing european legislative framework is an important development, especially in the current circumstances. it is also a logical continuation of the work carried out in 2011, when the credit ratings regulation was first amended in order to bring the credit ratings agencies under the supervision of the european securities and markets authority. the agreement reached towards the end of last year contains a number of very important elements: firstly, there will be a reduction in the role cras play in sovereign risk ratings. unsolicited sovereign ratings will have to be issued in accordance with a calendar and up to three times a year. in order to ensure better investor protection, we have agreed on a minimum european standard, so that where there have been cases of intentional or negligent infringement of the law by cras, investors will be entitled to compensation for damages if investment decisions have been negatively influenced as a result. competition will be increased in a market which has to date been dominated by a small number of very large cras. this will require us to test the regime of mandatory rotation of agencies, initially only affecting a limited range of instruments, but with the possibility of extending these to cover a wider range of instruments in due course. transparency regarding structured finance instruments will increase. for example, issuers will be required to engage at least two different credit rating agencies to rate such instruments. furthermore, there will be greater disclosure of information about underlying assets and this should increase the number of unsolicited ratings and so increase competition. where there is a risk of conflict of interest, disclosure rules on shareholdings will be enhanced. the size of direct and indirect shareholdings in cras will be limited. we all know that the ‘issuer pays’ model has some flaws, and that relationships between the shareholders of credit rating agencies and the rated entities risk creating conflicts of interest. this was not adequately addressed under the existing rules and we have therefore agreed to strengthen the independence of cras. we have also reduced excessive reliance on credit ratings in the markets. we have agreed on safeguards that will prevent financial instruments from relying solely or too mechanically on credit ratings when they take investment decisions. the work on reducing over-reliance on credit ratings in the european law will continue. the council considers that this new regulation constitutes a very serious step in that direction and in the development of a wider range of alternatives to credit ratings. we are also convinced that we are making good progress in achieving greater competition in the credit ratings sector over the medium term. in our view, the text agreed towards the end of last year constitutes a very good balance. it is the product of hard work by all concerned, and an excellent level of cooperation between our two institutions. i commend the outcome to this house, and very much hope that it will secure strong support when you vote on it tomorrow.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, madam minister, we are going to take a further, necessary step together in this great movement which wants, together with you, and as the g20 has wished, that every financial actor - and we are talking about many major financial actors with the rating agency - every sector, every product should be subject to public regulation as soon as possible, and this in order to put all these actors, products and sectors at the service of the real economy, of business and employment. our determination is intact and must remain intact, to draw all the lessons from the crises which are, as we well know, successive but also interconnected with each other, and it is in this spirit that we have brought together initial responses over the last two years. this is particularly true, ladies and gentlemen, of the credit rating agencies, to which we had to be as responsive as possible. i share the view of your rapporteur, mr domenici, on this point. these agencies may have contributed to market volatility and speculation. i want to thank the european parliament for its work, for the speed of its work and for the intensive cooperation we have had on all these new legislative initiatives. we haven't finished our work; i am therefore saying to lucinda creighton: i thank the irish presidency. we were able to verify last thursday his determination to go ahead with all the other texts which are now on your table and that of the ministers. i would also like to thank your rapporteur, mr domenici, the fictitious rapporteurs, jean-paul gauzès, sven giegold, wolf klinz, ashley fox, and all those who worked on this text, for their commitment and the dynamic compromise we have reached since the presentation of the commission's proposal. i would like to stress six points which have just been mentioned by the presidency and lucinda creighton. first, the timetable for the rating of sovereign debt. i am particularly pleased with the compromise reached on the framework for the rating of sovereign debts. we all remember some unfortunate events that have taken place in the past year. we want to put an end to the risks of disorganization, of destabilizing the markets, by regulating the sometimes untimely publication of sovereign ratings. the rating agencies will now be required to establish an annual rating schedule, which will include a maximum of three unsolicited sovereign debt ratings. these ratings shall be published on the friday after the close of trading and at least one hour before the opening of trading. finally, the sovereign debt rating will be done in a transparent manner. again, this is a key word for all our proposals. governments, like investors, will have access to the elements on which the rating is based. second, reduce the reliance on external ratings. the new framework you are about to approve will reduce and ultimately eliminate the over-reliance on credit ratings. in practice, financial institutions will no longer be able to rely exclusively, and sometimes blindly, on credit ratings for their investments. they will have to revise their internal rules to eliminate references to ratings where they may have - and sometimes have had - mechanical effects. the commission will assess the market situation before the end of 2015, in particular the existence of alternatives to credit ratings. can we go further, eliminate all references to external ratings by 2020, if there are enough alternatives available? in any case, we will - i will - work on this with the same willingness. thirdly, the protection of investors and issuers, with a civil liability regime, which is introduced by compromise, at the level of the whole european union. this is an essential measure in view of the impact that the rating can have both on the rated party - the issuer or the state - and on investors, markets and the european economy in general. from now on, rating agencies can be held accountable for their mistakes, which is the least of it, when it comes to gross negligence or intentional violations of the law. this is a major step forward for investor protection and issuer protection. we're going to make the rating agencies more accountable for what they do. fourthly, the limitation of shareholding. we know that the composition of shareholders and the holdings of rating agencies can be a source of conflicts of interest. it's a risk that's not theoretical. it can have a negative effect on the quality of the rating. for this reason, the regulation provides for transparency requirements, but also for formal limitations on the composition of the shareholders. in order to ensure the independence of the agencies and proper risk assessment, an obligation of transparency is established; it applies in several situations: where the agency has an interest in the rated entity or its products; where the rated entity is a shareholder of the agency; or where the agency's shareholders have an interest in the rated entity or its products. such a transparency obligation will be imposed on shareholders exceeding 5% of the capital of an agency and, beyond the 10% threshold, there will be a ban on listing. in addition, the participation of the same investor in several agencies is limited to a threshold of 5% per agency. fifth, the opening up of the rating market. to introduce more competition - i was committed to this - in the event of multiple ratings, issuers are encouraged to use at least one smaller rating agency, following the 'apply or explain' principle. a four-year rollover obligation is also introduced for a certain form of structured products, namely retitling. this measure is, in my view, a first test. it will be evaluated by the commission, which will submit it to you, and which may, if necessary, lead to an extension of the scope of the principle of rotation. finally, the sixth point, the european rating platform, which i know many of you are very fond of. the ratings will be published on a european rating platform. this measure will enhance the visibility and comparability of ratings of financial instruments and will help investors, in particular, to carry out their own solvency assessment. in addition, due to the complexity of structured finance instruments and their role in the financial crisis, the draft regulation requires issuers of structured products to publish more data on the performance of underlying assets. in response to the request of the european parliament, the commission will present, by the end of 2016, a report to the european parliament and the council, based on market developments, on the merits of a possible european credit rating agency dedicated to the assessment of the solvency of member states and their sovereign debt. the commission will also consider the alternative idea of a european credit rating foundation for corporate ratings and structured finance products. ladies and gentlemen, as your rapporteur has said and as the presidency has stressed, the new legislative framework, which complements the previous texts we have implemented together on credit rating agencies, is in line with a commitment made by europe in the context of the g20. it proposes a set of complementary measures - which i believe are effective - which will lead to one of our objectives, namely to strengthen the transparency and stability of financial markets. i thank you not only for your attention but also for the part your parliament has played in the preparation of this text and in the improvement of its content.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − as the shadow rapporteur of the epp group, i agreed with the other rapporteurs, including the lead rapporteur for the opinion, that our committee's opinion should focus on one aspect of the commission's proposal for a regulation, namely civil liability. although our committee could make amendments to any article in the commission's proposal, and although it was merely an opinion to the committee responsible for the subject-matter, in the econ case, we decided by common accord to drop all other amendments, both we, the rapporteurs, and the other members of our committee, except for the amendment on civil liability. the reason why we took such a decision, a decision communicated to the econ commission, was to concentrate all our concern and competence towards a 100% legal aspect and which, normally, should have been in the competence of the juri, as the main committee. but since the subject of the commission's proposal is the regulation of financial institutions, the committee responsible is econ and we respect that rule. so our committee has, as i said, dropped the amendment on issues of external rotation of credit rating agencies, shareholder structure or conflict of interest, even though at least the last two issues would have been in our area of competence if credit rating agencies were not considered financial institutions. as far as civil liability is concerned, our committee has found that a reversal of the burden of proof is a proposal at least legally uninspired, being in contradiction with the principle preserved in roman law itself: whoever makes a claim must prove it. our committee has further argued that there are other reasons why a reversal of the burden of proof is unfortunate. unfortunately, the econ committee did not agree with the juri committee's opinion, although it focused on one aspect, as i said. of course, formally, it is the right of the econ commission to take elements from a committee's opinion for its opinion or not. finally, i would like to welcome the outcome of the trialogue, which has returned to the traditional form of civil liability in terms of burden of proof.
the credit ratings published by the agencies are no longer just opinions. they have significant consequences for the well-being of a nation, having the capacity to worsen considerably the financial situation of a state. some eu member states are now in a vicious circle: they are facing debt repayment difficulties as a result of ratings agencies' assessments, while confirming their forecasts. the agencies are not afraid to make policy recommendations, putting pressure on government decisions. these institutions, characterised by a lack of transparency and conflicts of interest, have often published erroneous assessments. by 2007, they rated the toxic assets held by u.s. banks as risk-free, and soon, the global financial crisis was caused by these types of assets. in this context, i would like to welcome the present agreement on credit rating agencies, which will establish clear rules in this area, freeing member states from their dependence on these institutions. the fixed timing of the country rating will no longer allow for the publication of short-term ratings ahead of major political events with the aim of influencing them. the agencies will also no longer be able to issue policy recommendations. the commission's assessment of the possibility of setting up a european public rating agency will also be welcomed. finally, i would like to congratulate mr domenici on this excellent report.
credit rating agencies play a particularly important role in influencing the behaviour of economic and financial operators and there have been many cases where the lack of objectivity and transparency of external credit rating agencies has led to sharp falls in european credit ratings and contagion across the european union. i therefore believe that, in order to eliminate the suspicions and negative effects generated by these institutions, there is an urgent need to publish the full research reports accompanying the rating and to develop a tool for comparing the ratings by promoting common standards for rating grades and the existence of a single european rating index. furthermore, in order to hold those agencies accountable and to limit their abusive decision-making, i consider that users who suffer losses due to an inaccurate rating published by a credit rating agency should have adequate remedies to take action against such abuses.
both the proposals in mr pallone's report and the actual situation in the member states support our conclusion that they are on the right track. many tough measures have been taken by member states to eliminate excessive deficits. today, the european union is better equipped with the tools it needs to enable member states to manage their public finances in a sustainable way in the future. i would like to stress in particular the importance of the european semester, an instrument which is proving ever more useful and effective. solidarity at the level of the european union has played a big part in the financial and budgetary recovery of some member states, but what it has finally shown us is that the responsibility of each member state for its public finances cannot be avoided. in conclusion, i would like to express my concern that while tens of millions of citizens in the member states have suffered the consequences of harsh austerity measures, international companies and citizens continue to evade tax revenues in the member states by using tax havens and here we are still waiting for initiatives from the european commission.
article 107 (3) (e) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that other categories of state aid considered compatible with the internal market are to be determined by a decision of the council acting on a proposal from the commission. the commission stated in its communication of may 2012 on state aid modernisation that it would engage in an open dialogue with the european parliament and other stakeholders with a view to a debate on legislative proposals to modernise state aid. we stress that the revision and simplification of the state aid guidelines must be done with the involvement of the european parliament. should the commission decide to extend the scope and coverage of aid measures exempted from the ex ante notification requirement, member states will have more responsibilities in ensuring the correct application of state aid rules. the state aid procedure should also be simplified as regards the handling of complaints.
the commission has repeatedly stated its intention to amend, at the end of 2012 or the beginning of 2013, directive 96/53 laying down, for certain road vehicles circulating within the community, the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum authorised weight in international traffic. obviously, parliament must have an important say in these amendments. the parliament and the council are currently working on amending regulation 3821/85/ec on digital tachographs. parliament called, by a large majority, for the introduction of the weight sensor at first reading. parliament believes that its introduction will provide useful information on loading and unloading operations. in the negotiations with the council of the european union, the commission representatives informed us that the weight sensor would be introduced in the context of the expected amendment of directive 96/53/ec. commissioner, i would like to ask you directly whether the amendment to directive 96/53/ec also envisages the introduction of the weight sensor.
mr prime minister, i absolutely welcome everything you have said here today, but i say to you that nothing you have said is possible if there is no trust, if there is no trust of citizens in the european institutions, if there is no trust between all 27 member states of the european union and if there is no trust of external partners that this construction is coherent and sustainable. but i tell you, in the european union, it's hard to talk about trust when agreements are not respected. one such agreement is the agreement on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. here in the european parliament we voted a resolution which made it very clear that all the conditions of this agreement had been met by both romania and bulgaria. the european commission has said on countless occasions that all the conditions are met, that by law both romania and bulgaria must be part of the schengen area. however, neither romania nor bulgaria are in the schengen area, because there are certain states in the council that are opposed. as long as we do not restore confidence in this construction, as long as we do not respect the agreements between us, i believe we cannot talk about a european union with a good future in the world, which will overcome this economic crisis. i think your biggest challenge is to bring confidence back into the european union.
mr. prime minister, your mission is not easy. you and your colleagues have a big responsibility: in the next six months, much of the future of the union by 2020 can be defined. i wish you luck. over the past three years, the union has responded to the problems that have arisen and taken the necessary measures to stabilise and strengthen the financial, economic and banking situation of the member states. there are still a few pieces of legislation to be finalized. i think the two-pack and the financial transaction tax are a priority. the measures taken must be matched by mechanisms to generate growth and jobs. the european budget, 95% investment budget, through european policies, can become the catalyst for job creation. a budget for 2014-2020 is needed at a level that meets current challenges. the commission proposal is not justified, given that the same net member states have endorsed the 2020 strategy. the arguments of the net contributing member states are not entirely correct. european funds invested in the beneficiary member states bring significant benefits to firms in all member states. mr prime minister, you have no easy task, but you must try to persuade the european council to propose a budget as soon as possible, at least at the level proposed by the commission. i would also like to ask you to put an unfair, unfair situation back on track: the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. both countries have met all the european requirements in this area, and it is only right that they should receive what they deserve: entry into the schengen area.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the taoiseach rightly pointed out that the previous irish presidency welcomed new member states to the european union. on that day i was in dublin and to see the flag of my country being raised up and my country being welcomed into the family of the european union is still one of the most emotional and cherished memories i treasure and i thank you, taoiseach, very much for that. this time it is your seventh presidency, and seven is supposed to be a lucky number. on top of that, you have enormous experience, you have a very strong pro-european commitment and you have a great professional team. i have been working with minister creighton and ambassador montgomery for years already and i think that they are the best you can get. we in the commission are ready for close cooperation and we all in this house wish you success. i would like to assure ms harkin that it is the commission’s priority to break the vicious circle between bank debts and sovereigns. the commission will stand by ireland as for the other problem countries. the commission was very clear on one thing: that we support all measures that will improve market confidence and increase public support for the return process. the commission has also always made the case for solidarity and fairness in the european union and we will continue to support the member states and work with them on technical implementation of the possibility of using the european stabilisation mechanism for direct bank recapitalisation. i can assure you that solidarity and fairness would be the guiding principles here for the commission as well. regarding the situation in northern ireland, which has been mentioned several times here today, i would like to underline that the commission condemns violence of any kind. the eu continues to support the peace process in northern ireland by providing long-term political and financial support to ensure a successful and sustainable settlement. between 1995 and 2013, eur 1.9 billion in eu funding has been dedicated to the programme for peace and reconciliation in northern ireland and the border region of ireland. the commission has set up a task force to make sure that the people of northern ireland get the full benefits of the eu funds and to promote good engagement by northern ireland’s administrations with the eu institutions and policymaking. coming back to our banking situation in europe, we all agree that the single supervisory mechanism agreement was a success and we would like to see the legislative process on this agreement being concluded. now i think it is time and it is very important that we continue to work on the remaining banking union pillars. taoiseach, your focus on results, jobs and growth is absolutely the correct one in the situation. we have to get a very ambitious agenda with the single market act i and single market act ii and we will have to use the potential of the single market much better than any time before. mr audy just made a kind reference to my dear colleague máire geoghegan-quinn and i can only subscribe to his statement because she symbolises the policies, the way the european union and all our economies can be modernised through research, innovation and support of start-ups. ireland is the best example of how you can transform one country through these policies and this is how we need to transform europe. but for that we need eu investment, we need the eu budget, therefore mmf agreement is crucial and i would like to underline the agreement which is good – an agreement which is supported by this house and which does not deviate further from the commission’s initial proposal. i am afraid that further cuts called for by some, cuts across the board, including disproportional cuts to heading 5 for administration, which represents less than 6 % of all the budget, would bring only small overall savings but would cause long-lasting structural damage to the european union, its structure and its machine. we need to resist this and work for a good agreement and for that you will have good cooperation and support from the commission. so i would like to wish you all the best, a lot of success for your presidency and, if you will allow me, madam president, to answer one specific question from mr van der stoep on the so-called tobacco issue. here i would like to inform the house that the commission has already provided parliament, notably the conference of presidents and the committee on budgetary control, with the information and has replied to all parliament questions in writing. the commission has ensured and will ensure full transparency insofar as legal provisions will allow this, keeping in mind that there is a judicial investigation ongoing in malta.
uachtarán-in-oifig sa chomhairle. − a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil le gach duine as ucht na n-oráidí breátha a thug sibh anseo ar maidin. i would like to thank the european parliament for the interaction and engagement we have had here today. i speak as both the politician and leader of the government of my own country. i want you to understand that we have absolute respect for this parliament, the elected members of the peoples of the european union. politics for me has always been about people, first and last, and that is your remit, i am quite sure, as well. i would like to say to you that it is in ireland’s interest that we make this an effective presidency, because i want to see our country emerge from the programme and exit from the programme in 2013. that is not just a good signal about ireland, it is also a good signal about europe. the founding principle of the european union – despite the absolute necessity for peace – was also that big countries would work with small countries and that together the peoples would grow in importance of their economies and the opportunity to live their lives and do their business. it is time for europe to realise that it stands at a crossroads and on this planet, and in a global sense, europe has got to realise that it can do so much more by working together, by increasing the opportunity for economies to grow. thank you all for your contributions. i would like to refer in general to a few things and make a few specific points. just to be clear: in respect of schengen governance, which has been raised here by a number of people, we hope to agree on this during this term, and the same applies in the case of asylum. with regard to bulgaria and romania in so far as schengen is concerned, that is on the agenda for the march justice council meeting, and progress here will obviously depend upon partners where unanimity is required here. with regard to the mff, ms mcguinness and others raised this. this is an important message that i have heard here today. i have already had a meeting with president schulz, and i intend to engage directly with herman van rompuy and my colleagues at the european council about this. this is the first time that the european parliament has been indispensable to this process. the lisbon treaty makes this a codecision process, therefore it is important that members of the european council understand and appreciate that. we do need a budget and we need a budget soon, and that budget should be adequately resourced to provide the facilities for the union for the time ahead. i have heard the messages about flexibility and own resources, and these are obviously central to a solution for the mff. as holder of the presidency, i pledge to work as a presidency with this parliament and our colleagues in the council to see that this can be brought about as quickly as possible. in respect of the financial transaction tax raised by mr swoboda and a number of others, i want you to understand that ireland has a stamp duty on transactions. we did not favour a financial transaction tax, because of our own international financial services centre with 35 000 jobs being so close to london. but that does not mean that we do not understand what enhanced cooperation means. because there are more than 11 countries that now favour this, ireland will not stand in its way. i can confirm for you that the first item on the agenda of the euro group next week, under the chairmanship of the irish minister for finance, is the question of the financial transaction tax. in respect of the single market and youth unemployment, what is more important for any young person in this union than to understand that they have opportunities? opportunities to go and work where they would like to work, in an employment that would be suitable for them and that they would enjoy. that is what politics should be about: to create those opportunities. the world in which we live is changing at bewildering speed: genetics, biotech, nano-technology, robotics, all of these changes that are coming at us like a wave. we have the opportunity to have our young people make those waves of change for the people who are going to live on our planet for the next hundred years, and the platforms can be put in now by courage, trust, decisiveness and clarity at european level. in so far as we are concerned, with our presidency we will work directly and very diligently in regard to the question of unemployed youth and the opportunity to motivate young people, to give them an inspiration that politics actually does work and that they can have an opportunity themselves to contribute. if we do not do that, there will be anger, rage, frustration, cynicism – and this applies on the streets – if we fail in that duty. nothing is more important in the entire political spectrum than creating opportunities for people to contribute to the society in which we live. i have heard the scepticism being expressed by many people. i am a believer in politics and in political results and i am an optimist by nature. i think we can do something about this. in respect of economic progress, i agree with mr verhofstadt and mr cohn-bendit that this is no time for complacency. there have been calls here for a firm hand on the tiller; let me assure you that the irish presidency can bring to bear its own experience in this matter. our people have been pragmatic in understanding that the problem will not go away and will not sort itself out unless there is leadership and clear, decisive interaction with people. as applied in our country, and as does apply in our country, so too we can apply that across the european spectrum. therefore, we need interaction and engagement with the two-pack urgently, and i hope that this happens. the importance has been raised here of the european development role, particularly in regard to hunger and poverty, raised specifically by gay mitchell. i think people should understand that, since the united nations was formed, since the very first day of its formation, my country has been represented somewhere around the world in peacekeeping and dealing with issues of poverty, malnutrition, human rights and under-nutrition, and we will continue that. in fact, the major conference in dublin in april will deal with climate change, malnutrition and under-nutrition. it is an issue in which we have an interest. i would like to say to you that the presidency programme sets out specifically an issue dealing with maritime development – marine development – and i hope to have president barroso in galway in june to deal with the blue economy and the commencement of a strategy dealing with the atlantic, which will have such important repercussions. ms gurmai mentioned about the european protection order, which helps promote the protection of women, and the commission proposal for women on company boards. we hope to achieve agreement on that during the course of our presidency here. i would like to say that, in respect of mr swoboda, we will not stand in the way of ftt in the youth employment and youth guarantee. we are going to work very hard on that. in respect of schengen, as i say, that is underway. ms zimmer mentioned why i was more interested in the germans and why i went to see the csu: i did, and i went to see cyprus as well, and everybody else included. i think it is important that you should understand this, because the csu might have a particular view about programme countries. it is very important that a political leader could go and engage with politicians to explain the decisions that we made in our country in making progress to exit from our programme. that is why i went to see the csu, so that i could get a clear understanding, ms zimmer, of what our country and our people have had to contend with. that is why it is important that people should also understand that, because we were one of the first countries in a programme, we had to borrow eur 64 billion and put that on the backs of our electorate because european financial policy – and european political policy at the time – was that no bank should fail. we are the only country which has a situation where we have to repay three billion every year for 10 years in promissory notes. it has not happened to any other country, and that is why it is important for ireland to exit this programme and that we get the support which has been committed to us by europe for a long time. that is why we are negotiating with the ecb on one hand, and that is why i was very happy to see that the european council was actually able to endorse – on time – the decision taken by the euro group to follow through on the decision of 29 june last to break the link between sovereign and bank debt and to move on now to the single supervisory mechanism, which will be the discussions undertaken by the euro group, which is being led by our own minister for finance. mr farage mentioned respect and rights and all the rest of it. i remember you here with your t-shirt saying ‘respect the irish vote’. we gave a very strong endorsement of the fiscal stability treaty last year. despite the difficulties that people had, they said: ‘the place to be is in europe, the place to hang on to is the euro, we see real opportunities here’. (applause) people ask what advice i would give to prime minister cameron. i do not know what the prime minister is going to put in his speech, but i want you to understand this. we have very close relationships with our british counterparts. we signed a strategic partnership agreement with him last year. there are 50 000 irish people serving on the boards of british companies. as far as i am concerned, britain has always been a fundamental part of the european union – a driver of the single market – and would stand to gain enormously from being intensely involved in the new trade discussions with japan, canada, india and singapore, and most importantly of all, when we get a mandate to open negotiations for free trade agreements between the united states and the european union. this holds enormous potential for every one of us. mr bütikofer mentioned that there was no mention of industry in my contribution here. i did say that the important thing is to raise the economies of europe, and we can do that together. we have got a thousand multinationals in our country to help drive our exports, and we are concentrating, as president schulz knows, on small and medium enterprises to stimulate confidence in our own indigenous economy. if this is reflected across the board in europe, think of the potential for jobs, opportunity, investment in industry, investment in research and creativity. our own commissioner is dealing with a very important budget from that point of view. i see trade and the opportunity to be creative for the future as being so important for young europeans, the next generation coming behind us. it is our responsibility to put in place the platforms upon which they can have a prosperous existence. mr reul said: ‘you give us courage’, yes, and to use the tools that we have, which are enormous in extent and capacity, and we hope to give examples of that during our presidency. the question of the peace situation in northern ireland was raised by ms anderson and others. i want you to understand that i raised this deliberately with mr van rompuy, and i have thanked parliament, the commission and the council over the years for their continuing support for the peace process in northern ireland. believe you me, this took politicians of all parties very many years to win a hard-won peace, and we are not going to lose that because of thugs or by those who want to disrupt that peace process and destroy the economy of northern ireland and the people who make that work. (applause)that is why parliament has been so important in continuing its funding for that peace process, and i thank all of you right across the spectrum for what you have done in that regard. in respect of the need for tolerance, social cohesion and non-discrimination, we support that, obviously. mr murphy raised the question of having to come to europe to beg, as he said, for support. i want mr murphy to understand – he is not actually elected to this parliament – that irish governments over the year have not been to europe with a begging-bowl mentality but one that is central to the development of europe for everybody else. the fantasy economics of thinking that you can just say ‘forget your liabilities’, ‘forget your responsibilities’, is just not valid. we want mr murphy to assure everybody that ireland has always paid its way, but it needs to be done in a fair and balanced way for everybody involved here. we intend to exit our programme and will discuss with the ecb about re-engineering and re-structuring those promissory notes. at the other end of the spectrum, in respect of the european council decision of 29 june, we will follow that through. there is a role for the mff in investment in horizon 2020, cap, cfp, cohesion, etc. ms harkin mentioned about exiting the programme, as did mr higgins and mr seán kelly, and we appreciate that. this, after all, is the year of the citizen. it behoves every one of you – every one of us – to be able to explain to our people the purpose of the european union: what it means to feel to be a european, to have pride in the european union and to understand that, together, we have the opportunity to make the union of 500 million people – which others want to join – the opportunity to be a really strong global player. i hope to welcome the croatian people as full members of the european union on 1 july. let me assure you that, in respect of the cap reform, minister coveney has been engaging with all his counterparts. this is very important. we need to see that budget well structured and well financed. it is still capable of delivering the most jobs in manufacturing in the european union. it is absolutely important in the context of food security and a growing global population that we deal with that, and i expect that we will during this presidency as well. obviously there were a range of other matters that were raised here. i do not want to go into them all. we will progress the file on growth and unemployment during the presidency. i hope that, at the end of our six months, we will have demonstrated that a good news story for ireland is a good news story for europe. the situation in so far as mali and other countries is concerned has been discussed at european council. we are taking a very strong view here. i note the interaction and the discussions taking place with vice-president ashton in respect of mali, in particular, and syria, where christian torture has grown beyond belief. it is catastrophic in so many ways. let us hope that europe can play its part in dealing with these very serious issues. the question was asked by mr bufton about the tánaiste, my deputy prime minister. we have a very clear understanding of the conditions of membership of the european union: it is to make them work better in the interest of everybody. that should be our remit. i do not see a situation where you can have 27 different conditions of membership for countries of the one union. from that point of view, while we have great respect for our colleagues, it is a case of working towards what we can achieve with the single market, the digital market, the new trade agreements and so on. we have an enormous agenda over the next number of months, but i want to assure you in this parliament, which i respect absolutely, that we will work as a presidency with you, president schulz, and with the members of your institution here, the members of parliament. as i said, this is the first time that codecision applies here, and the european council – of which i am honoured to be a member – cannot believe that it takes decisions as an individual institution. this is codecision. you represent the peoples of 500 million. so from that point of view, we will engage with you, with herman van rompuy and with the others, to see if we can put an mff in place as quickly as possible which will allow us to engage with parliament, the cap, the 70 files of legislation that must be gone through and all of that. this is the first time i have addressed the plenary session of the european parliament. i thank you for your indulgence and your silence. in ireland this year we are having a major gathering. we are inviting people from all over the world to come to our country, and any of you who want to see how a country in challenging times is able to measure up to the conditions and still live with hope for a brighter future, please come and engage with us. you will help us in that way to understand that, if ireland can do this, so can europe. we are with you all the way. (sustained applause)
in writing. as the irish presidency's programme papers show, the european union must focus not only on taking measures to ensure the economic and institutional stability of the member states, but also on translating these measures into real benefits for european citizens. despite the stabilising effect of several governance measures adopted in recent years, european citizens continue to face the obvious problem of falling incomes or the dire prospects of long-term unemployment. i therefore support the irish presidency's policy of putting european citizens at the centre of future political efforts. i also believe it is important that the european union continues to take as assertive a political leadership position as possible in combating the effects of climate change. it is important, however, that at this level the imperative of reducing greenhouse gas emissions is not only the subject of dedicated efforts by the european union but also of a broad coordination of all union policies that have an impact at this level.
in writing. with ireland taking over the presidency of the european union, the focus is on the measures that will need to be taken in the coming period to get the european economy back on track by promoting growth and job creation. ireland will need to drive forward the implementation of the jobs and growth pact, a package of measures on fiscal consolidation, reducing unemployment, international trade and other areas that can create jobs and growth. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to leave for maternity leave. there are member states that have expressed concern about the changes and costs associated with this leave. according to four member states (germany, the uk, ireland and the czech republic), the changes introduced by the ep have made it very difficult to reach a common position in the council. the irish presidency could therefore play a key role in the negotiations to unlock the current situation. the european council also stressed the importance of the eu's role in the international community, and called on the eu to continue to play a leading role in the international community.
in writing. i would first like to welcome the irish presidency of the european union and express my hope that it will be able to carry out a large part of the programme drawn up for the next six months. economic recovery and job creation, especially for young people, are among the ambitious goals, the achievement of which corresponds to the expectations of european citizens. however, i cannot help but regret that one of the central points of all the countries that have held the eu presidency since the beginning of 2011 - the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area - is not among ireland's priorities. mrs lucinda creighton recently said that the irish presidency would not deal with 'small' issues and recalled that ireland is one of the long-standing members of the eu. that is why i am advocating that romania's accession to schengen be included in the list of priorities, given that the free movement of goods, capital and people would make an important contribution to the objective of economic growth. neglecting this important aspect for my country would validate the arguments that make schengen an 'exclusive club', eroding the fundamental freedoms on which the european union is based.
in writing. it is important that the new irish presidency has included both the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area and schengen reform among its priorities. now that the new romanian government, led by victor ponta, has as its first european policy priority the admission of romania to the schengen area and presents clear political guarantees, the irish presidency has the opportunity to redress the injustice perpetrated since 2011 and which led to the postponement of accession on criteria totally foreign to the letter and spirit of the treaties. it is widely accepted that both countries have been preparing for almost two years to become members of the schengen area, and on some components of the acquis, such as border control infrastructure, they are the best performing countries in the whole of europe. as regards the schengen package, we are at a stage of negotiations where the difference between a final agreement and a failure of the negotiations depends strictly on the political will of the member states to move towards a truly european system of managing schengen. the irish presidency thus has a choice between being recognised as having helped to consolidate one of the greatest achievements in the history of the eu or, on the contrary, as having contributed to the dismantling of schengen.
in writing. mr prime minister, i wish you every success with your irish presidency of the council of the eu! mr prime minister, i ask for the support and commitment of the irish presidency of the council for romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. the two countries fulfil all the technical conditions for accession to the schengen area, a fact repeatedly recognised by both the european commission and the european parliament. mr. prime minister, ireland is celebrating 30 years of membership in the european union, sharing and defending the union's fundamental values. the romanian citizens share the same values and therefore i would like to underline the immense expectations that the romanian citizens have from the irish presidency of the council of the eu regarding romania's accession to the schengen area. as parliament's rapporteur for the digital tachograph regulation, i welcome the priority given to this dossier by the irish presidency and assure you that parliament will make every effort to complete this dossier together. i also underline the importance that the irish presidency attaches to the achievement of the digital single market. i welcome the priority given to areas such as cybersecurity, electronic signatures and identification, data protection, the expansion of broadband communications networks and the accessibility of websites, especially for people with disabilities. finally, it is essential that the enisa regulation be finalised under this presidency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending the calendar of parliament's sessions for 2013 because i believe that the decision of the european court of justice must be respected. the court has decided that there must be 12 plenary sessions a year, all of which must take place in strasbourg. these plenary sessions will also have to last four days. in 2011, parliament amended the calendar of sittings for 2012 and 2013, uniting two plenary sessions in a single week. thus, the duration of these two sessions was reduced to only two days. in rejecting this decision, the court of justice of the european union ordered parliament to change the calendar of plenary sessions for 2013.
in writing. − i would like to mention that i voted against the calendar of plenary sessions for 2013 and that i am not in favour of travelling to strasbourg every month, as this would involve spending very large sums of money, which could represent significant savings for the union budget.
in writing. − i voted for the revised calendar for 2013, in the spirit of respecting the decision of the european court of justice. however, in the current context of economic crisis, the european parliament should also reduce its spending. the fact that meps, assistants and european officials are obliged to travel to strasbourg once a month for the plenary session costs the european parliament some €180 million a year. add to that a consumption of 19,000 tons of co2. i believe that the european parliament should have the right to decide on its own organisation and to choose, accordingly, a single location for its work. heads of state and government must respect the will of the majority - 75% of meps voted in 2012 in favour of choosing a single seat for the ep - and revise the european treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the internal organisation decision as regards the amendment of the european parliament's calendar of plenary sessions - 2013. this vote on the timetable for plenary meetings to be held in strasbourg is in line with the decision of the european court of justice of december 2012 (case c-237/11). according to the court's decision and the vote in the european parliament, all plenary sessions of the parliament must be held in strasbourg (eastern france) and cannot be split in favour of brussels. the court thus annulled a vote by the european parliament which decided to split the october 2012 and 2013 plenary sessions in order to limit the time of presence of meps in strasbourg. the treaties require the european parliament, which has its seat in strasbourg, to meet in plenary sessions 12 times a year. normally, two plenary sessions are held in strasbourg in the autumn in the same month to compensate for the absence of a plenary session in august. for 2013, these two plenary sessions will take place in october.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, supporting the need to reform the existing directive on dangerous preparations. i believe that amendments are needed to update the directive under the lisbon treaty. thus, old provisions that are outdated will be replaced by new ones. it will also ensure greater clarity and precision of the applicable rules. this is particularly important in view of the impact that hazardous preparations can have on human health and the environment. although the reform concerns an act to be phased out, it is important that the updated standards are applied during the operation of this directive.
in writing. − the amendments made by the reform of directive 1999/45/ec on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations, even if not substantive, are justified by the need to update and codify the proposal under the treaty of lisbon. in this context, i would like to mention that i support the conclusions of the legal services advisory working party that the proposal is limited to a simple codification of the existing text without any substantive changes to it. i think that the extension of the deadline for the notification of the ep and the council by two months is an important victory.
in writing. − i consider that the reform of the dangerous preparations directive (1999/45/ec) is necessary to ensure greater clarity and precision of the rules in force as of 1 december 2010. the directive is of particular importance for regulating the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and mixtures, including the un global harmonized system as of 20 january 2009. all the adaptations and amendments proposed by the commission are justified by the need to update the directive in the light of the provisions recently introduced by the treaty of lisbon or adopted under the reach regulation.
in writing. − as the advisory working party has unanimously concluded that the present proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal or in this opinion, i believe that the recommendations of the advisory working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission should be taken into account.
in writing. − the reform of directive 1999/45/ec is necessary for two reasons: - to update the proposal under the lisbon treaty, to replace the old provisions, which have become obsolete, with new ones; - the adoption of the reach regulation, which codifies directive 199/45/ec to ensure clarity and precision in the applicable rules. one of the most important changes seems to me to be that in the consolidated version there are numerous references to part a of annex v to directive 67/548/ec, concerning test methods. i consider that, in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this directive, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission.
in writing. − i voted to update the provisions on the classification, packaging, and labelling of dangerous preparations, in order to align the old directive to the lisbon treaty. this confirms the powers of the commission and parliament respectively regarding implementation of these important safety regulations
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations. the reform of the dangerous preparations directive (1999/45/ec) is proposed in order to codify the acts amending and aligning the provisions concerning the commission's power to adopt delegated and implementing acts to the treaty of lisbon. the dangerous preparations directive (dpd) regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations, i.e. mixtures or solutions consisting of two or more substances (chemical elements and their compounds). it remains applicable until 1 june 2015 and is the new eu system for the classification and labelling of dangerous substances and mixtures, including the un global harmonized system. the reform of directive 1999/45/ec is justified either by the need to update the proposal in line with the lisbon treaty or by the adoption of the reach regulation and other changes introduced by it, which require a codification of directive 1999/45/ec to ensure the clarity and precision of the applicable rules. the reform proposal did not include political choices, substantial changes resulting from the treaties or new eu legislation on the subject.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the current system of fishing quotas has brought the short-term concerns of the states to the fore. the sustainability of the fisheries sector has thus been put on the back burner. some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable yield. as in many other parts of europe, the mediterranean is overfished. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the current regulation to cover the whole of the north sea. the commission must initiate long-term plans which take account of the needs of the member states on the one hand and the need to preserve fish stocks on the other. member states will also have to show greater responsibility in the future.
in writing. − i welcome and support the rapporteur's wish to improve the state of implementation of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 and believe that member states must step up their efforts to implement this regulation. it hopes that, together with the reform of the common fisheries policy, a new regional framework will allow the rapid identification of appropriate regulatory solutions for the mediterranean sea, which will be accepted by all stakeholders, while effectively ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment.
in writing. − i hope that, together with the reform of the common fisheries policy, a new regional framework will allow for the rapid development of appropriate regulatory solutions for the mediterranean sea, which will be accepted by the member states and the interested parties, taking into account the specificities of this sea basin, while effectively ensuring the sustainability of fisheries and the protection of resources and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the present report, which identifies the delegated powers of the commission in council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006. this will enable the alignment of the regulation i just mentioned with the provisions introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in particular regarding resorting to delegated acts. empowering the commission to adopt, by way of delegated acts, amendments on non-essential elements of the regulation will improve our rapidity of reaction to new situations. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the annexes in fact constitute an essential part of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006. therefore i believe that in this case, delegated acts are not appropriate. annexes should be amended only by the european parliament and the council together, according to the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. − no debate on the management of mediterranean fisheries resources can ignore the fact that the problems of the black sea fisheries are currently being managed in a bizarre way by the general commission for the mediterranean. a whole series of problems are caused by this measure, which has no justification (legal, geographical, economic). the establishment of a black sea commission and the clarification of competences are necessary and urgent. the question of clarifying legislative cooperation between parliament and the council in the context of the treaty also remains.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea. conservation of fisheries resources is of paramount importance. in order to counterbalance the negative connotations of the term 'exploitation', it is appropriate to indicate that regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 also aims at the conservation of fishery resources in the mediterranean sea. i voted for the inclusion of this objective both in the title of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 and in the text of the regulation. regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be aligned to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. it is therefore of particular importance to find a very well-founded solution from a legal point of view, which protects the rights of parliament which were introduced by the treaty of lisbon. in this respect, i voted in favour of limiting the power of the commission to adopt delegated acts for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of this regulation, in order to allow for a regular evaluation of them. i also voted that the annexes should be amended only by co-legislators.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i too welcome the rapid ratification of the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and compensation. i believe that it will contribute greatly to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biological diversity. i welcome the fact that the additional protocol will deal specifically with liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms (lmos). in view of the potential damage that lmo can cause, it is important to focus mainly on the procedures and administrative requirements related to the measures to be taken in response to damage. in doing so, we must take into account adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and risks to human health.
in writing. − the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and reparation of damage emphasises the responsibility that all countries must have for the environment and i am convinced that it will make a major contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biological diversity. the additional protocol complements existing legislation with international rules and procedures on liability and redress for damage to biodiversity caused by living modified organisms (lmos) that have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking also into account risks to human health. most member states have signed this additional protocol and will ratify it shortly. in the european union, the provisions of the cartagena protocol on biosecurity are governed by european biosecurity legislation, which remains an essential cornerstone of the precautionary principle.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council decision on the signing, on behalf of the eu, of the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and reparation to the cartagena protocol on biosafety. the cartagena protocol on biological diversity is an international treaty that regulates the movement of living modified organisms (lmo) resulting from modern biotechnology from one country to another. it establishes a prior informed consent procedure to provide countries with the information necessary to make informed decisions before approving the import of such organisms. the protocol refers to the precautionary approach. to this end, a biosafety clearing-house is hereby established to facilitate the exchange of information on lmos and to support countries in the implementation of this protocol. the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol provides for international rules and procedures on liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity caused by lmos. in the eu, the provisions of the cartagena protocol are governed by european biosecurity legislation. the liability provisions of the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol are governed by directive 2004/35/ec on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage. it establishes a framework based on the 'polluter pays' principle, whereby the polluter pays if environmental damage has been caused.
mr president, i voted for this report, considering that an increase of two percentage points in the government debt-to-gdp ratio in the eurozone in only one year is a warning that we should concentrate on credible long-term strategies for budgetary consolidation. however, member states are not all in the same situation; they have particular economic and social conditions. therefore i call on the commission to facilitate the implementation of differentiated fiscal strategies, adapted to the particular microfinancial risk of each country. consistent and common efforts on structural reforms are needed for our goal for a solid economic and monetary union in the long term.
i voted in favour of this report because the problems in the public finance sector continue to have a negative impact on socioeconomic development and political stability, both in the euro area and in the rest of the union. given the high levels of public and private debt and public deficits in some member states, we need credible long-term strategies. i too support the report's proposals and would like to stress the need to constantly support public and private investment, which is crucial for job creation. moreover, it is essential that proportionality be taken into account in public finance decisions. when it is recommended to reduce wages and social spending, other options, such as taxes on real estate or on polluting activities, must be considered as well.
in writing. − the current european economic and political context continues to be marked by the major effects of the economic, financial and banking crisis. the economic and institutional stability of the member states remains a key priority of governance within the european union. the high level of unemployment in the member states, together with the high share of public debt in gdp, calls for measures to complement recent reforms in the euro area and the union as a whole. as the report's conclusions show, beyond the concrete institutional measures we must take into account, the credibility and legitimacy of the european construction are also at stake in the current dynamics. the european union can only overcome the crisis by increasing transparency and creating public mechanisms capable of assuming maximum responsibility in the economic field. at the same time, i support the report's position that the process of strategic consolidation of public finances in european countries should continue, given the scale of public debts and deficits.
in writing. − considering that the current economic, financial and banking crisis is not abating and that public finance problems are having a negative impact on economic development and political stability, and taking into account that member states are not all in the same situation, it is necessary to apply strategies for sustainable economic growth, differentiated according to the specific recommendations adopted by the council for each country. i believe that credible long-term fiscal consolidation strategies are still needed and that member states should pursue growth-oriented policies and reforms in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on public finances in emu 2011 and 2012. i believe that the budget of the european union can play an important role in reducing macroeconomic and social imbalances across the union. the european parliament takes note of the commission's current forecast for negative gdp growth for the emu as a whole in 2013. the european parliament calls on the member states to implement growth-oriented policies and reforms in line with the europe 2020 strategy, taking into account social protection, social inclusion and public investment. the long-term sustainability of public and private finances is a key condition for economic growth and for maintaining public spending, including investment, at an appropriate level. high youth unemployment will also affect future economic development. we call on the member states to take concrete measures to reduce youth unemployment. parliament welcomes the new emphasis on budgetary decentralisation in the commission's report on public finances in emu in 2012 and suggests that a chapter on local and regional public finances should always be included in future editions.
mr president, through their notation, credit rating agencies have a substantial impact on the financial economy of any country and definitely on the daily life of citizens. the 2008 subprime crisis, together with the bankruptcy of enron, revealed the severe weaknesses existing within credit rating agencies in terms of transparency and conflict of interest. i welcome the measures put forward by the report to guarantee the independence of the credit rating agencies. i commend the limits introduced on cross-shareholdings and especially the fact that a member or shareholder of a credit rating agency must publicly declare any share he or she holds in another agency, that these shares cannot exceed 5 % and that credit rating agencies are not allowed to hold a stake of more than 10 % in any entity that they rate. these are promising steps for greater transparency within these institutions.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that excessive reliance on credit ratings must be curbed. through the information they provide, credit rating agencies play an important role in financial markets. however, they do not provide characteristics of a security, such as liquidity risk or price volatility. therefore, the information provided by them should not be regarded as the sole criteria for assessing credit risk. i think if financial market participants would evaluate the opinions of credit rating agencies before making decisions, the failure rate in the markets would go down considerably. balanced confidence in credit ratings will contribute to a more effective protection of investors and european financial markets and reduce the risk of unfair practices.
in writing. − the activities of credit rating agencies have a very high impact on economic and financial actors and on public institutions. it is therefore essential that they operate within a regulatory framework that is as rigorous as possible and adapted to recent developments in financial markets. i believe that the commission's proposal has the potential to address the dependence of credit institutions and investment firms on the external ratings of credit rating agencies by encouraging the creation of internal risk assessment models and imposing due diligence obligations. welcomes the introduction of rules aimed at resolving conflicts of interest that could affect the quality of proposed ratings, thereby ensuring the independence of rating agencies. i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. − credit rating agencies have a major impact on the interest rates at which public authorities and different economic actors borrow, so better regulation in this area is absolutely necessary. i voted in favour of this report because it will ensure greater independence for the rating agencies by clarifying and sanctioning situations of conflict of interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on credit rating agencies because there is a need for stricter regulation of these companies. the measures we voted for are designed to combat oligopoly and conflict of interest and to limit the influence of these institutions on political decisions which should be the result of a democratic process. agencies will have to present a fixed timetable for the publication of country assessments and will no longer be able to issue policy recommendations. investors will also be able to sue credit rating agencies if they breach the rules laid down by this regulation.
in writing. − i consider it useful to establish an internal control structure within credit rating agencies, which would allow the prevention and control of possible conflicts of interest and ensure the independence of the ratings of these agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies. the regulation on credit rating agencies has been amended as regards: the scope, the use of credit ratings, the independence of credit rating agencies, the publication of information on credit rating agency methodologies, credit ratings and rating outlooks, the comparability of credit ratings and the fees charged for credit ratings, and the civil liability of credit rating agencies towards investors. we voted to increase competition in a market dominated by three credit rating agencies and to take steps to encourage the use of smaller credit rating agencies. the commission should submit a report to the european parliament and the council analysing the appropriateness of setting up a european public credit rating agency to assess the solvency of the sovereign debt of member states and the ways in which this support can be provided and/or of setting up a european credit rating foundation to carry out all other types of ratings.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report to acknowledge the need to reduce the risk of managers of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and of alternative investment funds relying overly on credit ratings. while we cannot deny the importance of credit ratings for assessing financial markets and credit risks, we should not consider them as the only arbiters of credit risk. therefore i welcome the set of measures to reduce reliance on ratings and improve the agencies’ credibility. i commend in particular the fact that regulated financial institutions are encouraged to develop their own rating capacities while being required not to sell assets automatically in the event of a downgrade of their creditworthiness by an external credit rating agency.
i voted in favour of this report because in 2008 we all witnessed the influence of international rating agencies on the world economy. their contribution to the financial crisis clearly demonstrates the importance of regulation in this area. i think it is useful to launch a debate which will allow different points of view to be presented and which will define more precisely the role of the rating agencies. they should not enjoy a special status or automatically influence the activities of economic and financial operators. they should be a credible source of information and the way they are communicated should no longer be decided unilaterally by credit rating agencies alone.
in writing. − i believe that credit rating agencies carry out research, provide forward-looking opinions on credit risk and play an important role in financial markets. investors in undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs) should themselves assess the opinions issued by credit rating agencies and should carry out their own credit risk assessment. therefore, i believe that the internal risk management processes and systems used by ucits managers and aifs should be strengthened and the general principle of avoiding excessive reliance on external credit ratings adopted.
in writing. − i voted for the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2009/65/ec on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and directive 2011/61/eu on alternative investment fund managers as regards excessive reliance on credit ratings. directive 2003/41/ec provides for the regulation of institutions for occupational retirement provision (iorps) at union level. directive 2009/65/ec provides for the regulation of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) at union level. directive 2011/61/eu provides for the regulation at union level of alternative investment fund managers (aifs). one of the effects of the financial crisis is that investors, including iorps, ucits managers and aifs, rely excessively on credit ratings to invest in debt instruments without assessing themselves the creditworthiness of the issuers of such instruments. in order to improve the quality of investments made by iorps, ucits managers and aifs and thereby protect investors in those funds, it is provided that iorps, ucits managers and aifs should avoid relying exclusively and automatically on external credit ratings or using them as the sole parameter when assessing the risks involved in investments made.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that certain provisions of the regulation establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as proposed earlier, should be amended. as this act was adopted before the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), i consider this amendment to be essential for the plan to function effectively in the new decision-making framework established by the treaty of lisbon. the basic objective of the plan should be to ensure that the exploitation of cod stocks in the baltic sea can be carried out under economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions, and the commission should be given the appropriate powers.
in writing. − i consider that the proposed provision determines whether certain fishing restrictions apply in certain geographical areas, but does not establish uniform conditions. for that reason, i believe that the use of implementing acts in this case would not be in accordance with the treaty, but the conditions for the use of delegated acts are fulfilled.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the regulation aims to ensure that cod stocks in the baltic sea are exploited under sustainable economic, ecological and social conditions. to achieve this objective, rules are established for the establishment of annual fishing opportunities for this stock. these rules use certain technical parameters to determine the state of conservation of the stock. i voted that if the fishing mortality rate for one of the cod stocks concerned has been estimated to be at least 10% above the target fishing mortality rate, the total number of fishing days (with the gear referred to in paragraph 1) shall be reduced by 10% of the total number of days permitted in the current year. every five years, starting from 18 september 2007, the commission shall evaluate the functioning and results of the multiannual plan. for the purpose of carrying out this assessment, the commission shall seek recommendations from stecf and the baltic sea regional advisory council. if necessary, the commission shall make appropriate proposals for amending the multiannual plan.
in writing. − while a period of transitional measures is still needed in view of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, we must not deviate from the ultimate objective of establishing a clear and balanced legal framework that ensures a suitable living environment for fishermen while protecting fish stocks. fisheries must be conducted in a responsible manner. in the black sea, fish species have already disappeared and will continue to disappear unless we manage biological resources in a sustainable way; a key step in this direction is the completion of the cfp reform.
in writing. − i support this project because i believe that a regionalised approach to fisheries management is indispensable. these technical conservation measures will allow the specific designation of fishing areas and gears to protect the marine environment and the ecosystems in which fish live. i also support the observance of these rules by all fishermen.
in writing. - i voted for the postponement of the vote on this report, to send a signal to the council that it refuses to accept the new powers of the european parliament in the fisheries sector after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. last year, the council went so far as to adopt unilaterally the multiannual plan for the code. this attitude of the council cannot be tolerated by the european parliament. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has an obligation to take a firm stand on this matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that parliament's rules of procedure must ensure the most efficient functioning of the institution. therefore, i think it is only right that if the number of candidates for the office of vice-president is equal to the number of vacancies, then the choice of candidates should be by acclamation. i also think it would be beneficial to introduce a secret ballot to establish the precedence of each vice president. this gives the vice-presidents more legitimacy and responds to the concerns of the political groups about this procedure. last but not least, the order of precedence by vote will reflect the distribution of seats to each political group in parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it will improve the way in which the vice-presidents of the european parliament are elected and clarify the order of precedence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report amending the rules of procedure of parliament as regards the order of precedence of the vice-presidents elected by acclamation. article 13 (1) of the rules of procedure provides that the president, the vice-presidents and the quaestors shall be elected by secret ballot. however, if the number of applications does not exceed the number of seats to be filled, the candidates may be elected by acclamation. i voted for the amendment which states that if the election is by acclamation, the order of precedence is determined by secret ballot. i also voted against the amendment which removes the requirement that the election of the president, vice-presidents and quaestors must take account of an overall fair representation of member states and political tendencies. the reason why the amendment of the rules of procedure was requested is that the political groups eventually reach agreement on the persons appointed as vice-presidents, but never on the order of precedence. if the political groups cannot agree on the persons to be elected or if there are 'independent' candidates, a vote is taken and the order of precedence is determined according to the order in which the candidates were elected.
in view of the alarming situation of young europeans, urgent measures such as the youth guarantee are a priority for securing the future of the european union. economic change must be accompanied by efforts to create jobs, focused on the young workforce, and i believe that these guarantees will only have the desired effect if they are accompanied by a link between community employment strategies and the future needs of the european economy, by new programmes to provide young people with high-performing technological education and, not least, by support for the development of entrepreneurship among young people through increased access to european funds and business advice.
i support the establishment of the youth guarantee. they have intellectual capital and work capacity that needs to be expressed and harnessed to the fullest capacity, as much as possible, for themselves first and for society. of course, investing in the private system to create jobs is vital and this should be the priority of every european union government. in particular, i ask the commission to pay greater attention to young people from vulnerable groups and those from disadvantaged categories who experience social exclusion, such as those affected by poverty or disability, or those from minority or migrant groups. these young people must have financial, human and social support and full information on their employment opportunities.
i voted for this resolution. the introduction of the youth guarantee can help to reduce unemployment, but only if additional funding is secured. the national authorities must implement as soon as possible the measures to facilitate the introduction of this guarantee. first, an assessment and a personalised employment plan will be needed, followed by the application of the guarantee. public employment services will have to provide personalised assistance, given that there are various reasons behind the difficulties young people face in making the transition from school to their first job. but long-term measures will also be needed. states must adapt their education provision to the requirements of the labour market. therefore, romania is focusing on reopening vocational and apprenticeship schools, without neglecting higher education.
in writing. − youth unemployment is probably the phenomenon with the most damaging impact on european societies. although the statistical category of young people is not a homogeneous group but a body of citizens with undeniably different interests and problems, the fact that young europeans are facing increasing difficulties in finding a job raises numerous questions about the soundness of european economies and societies. moreover, this is becoming a chronic problem at member state level and calls into question the eu's major objective of promoting a sustainable, smart and inclusive growth model. i support the proposal to introduce a youth guarantee, which offers the prospect of continuing training or education for young europeans, alongside the acquisition of skills required by the labour market, as one of the most appropriate responses to current challenges. however, it must be borne in mind that the process can only bring about the desired changes in the medium term if there is close cooperation between the european and national authorities. it is equally important that this be supported by appropriate funding, within the limits of the budgetary constraints existing both for the member states and for the european authorities. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. − i mention that i support the commission's initiative to propose a council recommendation on youth guarantee schemes, as this is not a homogeneous group and should be given financial and social support. this support should benefit all categories of young people, who should first receive a personalised assessment of their needs, followed by the creation of services specifically tailored to those needs.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis in europe has led to an increase in youth unemployment to 22.8%, leaving 5.5 million young people unemployed. the introduction of a youth guarantee at member state level - giving every young eu citizen the chance to work or to be enrolled in an education or vocational training programme within four months of becoming unemployed or completing a form of education - will be of paramount importance in addressing this situation. the epsco council of february 2013 should present a recommendation aimed at implementing youth guarantee schemes in all member states, providing every young person with an opportunity to work, education or vocational training programmes. youth guarantee schemes should effectively improve the labour market situation of young people by providing adequate pay, working conditions and health and safety standards. youth guarantee schemes should also be eligible for the different specific forms of european funding, in particular in the member states with the highest rates of youth unemployment.
in writing. − in the current social, financial and economic context, where the global youth unemployment rate has reached an unprecedented level, it is imperative to implement mechanisms to match labour market demands and offers with those in the education system. the european union and the member states must step up their efforts to increase employment, which is why i support the european parliament's resolution on the establishment of a youth guarantee.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of youth guarantees in all eu member states, because i believe we have a duty to make every effort to encourage young people to take up employment. the current youth unemployment rate of 23.4% is worrying. i therefore welcome the idea of creating a tool through which young people under 25 or graduates under 30 will be guaranteed a good quality job offer, further education or a traineeship contract within four months of finishing their studies or becoming unemployed.
in writing. − the european union's concern to reduce youth unemployment will be reflected in the implementation of youth guarantee schemes in all member states, involving all social partners, local and regional authorities and local and regional education and training institutions. it is beneficial that at least 25% of the structural funds will be allocated to the youth guarantee, to which amounts must be added to the member states' funding to support the programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the establishment of a youth guarantee, as i believe that a european approach is needed to the growing problem of youth unemployment, which affects almost a quarter of young people. in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which sets ambitious targets for both employment and school drop-out rates, the youth guarantee could be a concrete measure to support all young people under 25 and recent graduates to either find a job in line with their skills or to continue their education or apprenticeship. this requires determination and political will, not only on the part of the european parliament but above all on the part of the member states, to adopt such a youth guarantee as soon as possible.
in writing. − i supported this resolution and its call to the council to make a positive recommendation on the youth guarantee next month. the economic crisis has affected young people disproportionately, and an offer of employment, education or an apprenticeship would bring considerable benefits to young people and make a positive impact in these difficult times.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of a youth guarantee, given that in november 2012 5.799 million young people under 25 were unemployed, an increase of 329 000 compared to november 2011. the youth guarantee will be a tool to ensure that all young people under 25 and recent graduates under 30 receive a good quality job offer or continue their education or apprenticeship within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving school. i am in favour of youth guarantee schemes being eligible for specific forms of european funding, particularly in the member states with the highest unemployment rates. i believe that close cooperation between the commission and the member states and, at national level, between the social partners (sectoral), local and regional authorities, public and private employment services and local and regional education and training institutions is essential for the effective implementation of youth guarantee schemes. youth guarantee schemes should also be accompanied by a quality framework to ensure that the education, training and jobs provided include adequate remuneration, working conditions and health and safety standards.
the european union must act as soon as possible to secure its energy future and protect its interests in this area, and the role of cohesion policy is crucial to this end. i believe that for the next programming period, additional attention should be paid to the regions on the external borders of the european union and, through well-funded projects from the cohesion and energy funds, an integrated and interconnected energy system should be developed with partner third countries. i believe that we must also encourage the regions and local representatives to include in the operational programmes the guidelines set by the european union on the development of energy systems and on energy efficiency, which is the most important aspect and would ensure sustainable development, but more than that, would ensure a significant reduction of costs in this area by about 25%.
investment in renewable energy is vital, now more than ever. i therefore ask the commission to ask the member states to simplify the rules and procedures for accessing structural funds in the field of energy policy and to support them in this respect, because complicated, interpretable, long and non-transparent procedures are the source of failure, including corruption and fraud in accessing these funds. the commission also needs to review its procedures and rules for accessing funds and must focus on regions. the use of renewable energy across regions will reduce inequalities between them, inequalities between the way people live and will increase the rate of uptake, to the benefit of european citizens.
i voted in favour of this report because the cohesion fund will play a very important role in achieving the europe 2020 energy efficiency objectives. my country has set itself a target of reducing primary energy consumption by 19% by 2020. but the target is very ambitious and at the same time very difficult to achieve. the main lines of action are to improve the efficiency of the energy production and distribution system and to inform the population. i believe that priority access should continue to be given to renewable energy and investment in this area. romania is increasingly encouraging this type of energy and is looking to continue promoting renewable energy sources, and the use of the cohesion funds as an additional source of funding for energy projects can contribute to this objective.
in writing. − the correlation between cohesion policy and a possible new european union energy initiative is a step forward for the member states and the citizens of the union. the achievement of an institutional link between two european union policies offers the possibility of taking on the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, especially with regard to greenhouse gas emissions, and increasing energy efficiency. the correlation of the two policies of the european union can lead to the achievement of its objectives of reducing the development gap between the different regions of the european union. the launch of regional or crossborder energy projects can help to support the process of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, which the european union has set itself as the key objective of the next decade. last but not least, another important aspect of the coordination between the two european union initiatives should be highlighted. in addition to avoiding duplication of union efforts, this process can ensure, while promoting the development of energy infrastructure, job creation at a time when more and more european citizens are facing the problem of unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is necessary and important that cohesion policy is linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth and to support the move towards a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy in all sectors. in this respect, i believe that coherent rules at european level and a mechanism allowing the authorities to access information from across the union are necessary to fully understand the evolution of the energy market. another important aspect seems to me to be the need to increase energy efficiency and the development of renewable energy in rural areas.
in writing. − the common objectives of european energy policy are security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. european energy policy should ensure the security of energy resources, diversification of supply and affordable prices for final consumers. the main objectives of eu cohesion policy are the economic, social and territorial cohesion of europe's regions, achievable through investment in growth and jobs. energy policy should promote growth and job creation at local level in all regions, while ensuring sustainable energy sources and guaranteeing the security of energy supply throughout the union. investments in energy infrastructure and energy efficiency in the construction and transport sectors will directly lead to the creation of new jobs. exchanges of good practice across the eu should therefore be encouraged to monitor the impact of energy policies on energy poverty. the need for energy efficiency and renewable energy development in rural areas is also important and the growing potential for energy saving in rural households, which could require innovative financing schemes, should be highlighted as these communities do not have the necessary financial institutions to support such projects.
in writing. − the european union needs a new policy on security and diversification of energy supply. cohesion policy-supported energy investment is also driving local economic growth and creating new jobs. in order to have a competitive economy, i believe that the european union must invest in the development of renewable energy. cohesion funds could help many regions in europe to improve their energy consumption and build energy storage and transport infrastructure.
in writing. − i welcome the possibility of improving the flexibility of the use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, in particular to encourage project submissions by those who need it most, but also to achieve the european union's objective of reducing carbon emissions and increasing energy efficiency in all sectors.
in writing. − as rapporteur for the itre commission opinion on the report on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in the implementation of the new european energy policy, i voted in favour of it, as i consider that the structural and cohesion funds have a very high potential to support important energy projects such as investments in energy efficiency, including housing. it is important that the available funds are made available to beneficiaries in the form of easily accessible financial instruments and, to this end, it is essential that excessive red tape at both national and european level is eliminated. at the same time, it is important that cohesion policy financial instruments are used in coordination with other funds specifically intended for energy projects, such as the connecting europe facility, in such a way as to create benefits of scale.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in implementing the new european energy policy, because for the coming programming period, member states need strong eu support to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, while taking into account national, local and regional specificities. in the current programming period, unfortunately, excessive bureaucracy and a lack of procedural clarity have made it difficult to access the structural funds and the cohesion fund, thus discouraging potential beneficiaries from making progress in this direction. with today's vote, we have removed the restrictions on funding for renewable energy sources and local and regional authorities will continue to benefit from funding for renewable energy projects. by using community funds wisely for the next programming period, it will be possible to achieve the 20% target for energy efficiency and, by implication, the sustainability and competitiveness objectives in the european union. last but not least, cohesion policy funds should also be available for the information and training of local and regional authorities, smes and potential beneficiaries on national renewable energy schemes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the role of cohesion policy in implementing the new european energy policy. we voted for a new regional development plan, which will lead to the minimization of differences between regions and to a more effective protection of vulnerable consumers. these consumers should benefit the most from energy efficiency improvements, but efficient use of structural funds and funds from the eib and other public financial institutions, as well as good coordination between union and national funds, is needed. we also voted to establish energy efficiency funds at national, regional or local level. these funds could play a fundamental role in job creation, the development of smes and companies providing energy efficiency services. the specific needs of the different regions must be taken into account. investments are needed either in the renovation of buildings or in the power transmission networks. all types of projects should take into account the connecting regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution and support in particular the paragraph on making investments in energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, particularly in the housing sector. by contributing from various european funds to the thermal rehabilitation of collective housing, together with funding from the member states, significant amounts of energy could be saved, especially in eastern european states such as romania. the ratio of investments made to savings made is an important argument in favour of such allocations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of eu cohesion policy and its actors in implementing the new european energy policy. i believe that european energy projects could contribute to regional development and enhance cross-border cooperation by helping regions to improve their capacity to manage energy resources. investments in renewable and low-carbon energy sources and energy efficiency can also support regional growth and job creation. i support the need to promote and use the jessica and elena financial instruments for investments in sustainable energy at local level to support cities and regions in launching viable investment projects in the field of energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and sustainable urban transport. i voted for the revision of vat directive 2006/112/ec to allow for a reduction in the vat rate applied to regional, local and cross-border projects aimed at improving energy efficiency and purchasing products in the highest energy efficiency class, under directive 2010/30/eu. i believe that the modernisation of district heating networks, cogeneration plants and distribution networks and the creation of new high-efficiency plants should be encouraged and supported by cohesion policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of the debt securities. the pooling of public debts at the level of euro area countries will bring more stability to financial markets, demonstrate commitment to the single currency and a common desire to overcome the current crisis through solidarity measures, and strengthen the status of the euro at global level. eurobonds can also be a step towards federalisation.
in writing. − in the current economic and financial crisis, stabilising sovereign debt markets is necessary for all banks in the eu. i support the rapporteur's view that eurobonds are not a 'magic bullet' but their launch will have a positive impact on the market in the long term and on risk management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a further need to deepen and strengthen economic and monetary governance in the european union, which can be achieved, inter alia, by issuing euro bonds that help to restore long-term confidence and improve de facto economic solidarity within the union. the roadmap proposed in this report is very ambitious, proposing the issuance of medium-term european bonds that can finance major european projects such as energy or research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds. the issuance of sovereign bonds in the euro area is currently carried out by the member states in a decentralised manner using various issuance procedures. the introduction of jointly issued stability bonds would require the joint issuance of sovereign bonds by member states and the sharing of associated revenue streams and debt servicing costs. i believe that action is urgently needed to support a long-term strategy for the euro area, ensuring sound public finances, sustainable growth, social cohesion and high levels of employment. any move towards a joint bond issue should take full account of the single market perspective, ensuring that no obstacles or unnecessary imbalances are created between participating and non-participating member states. i believe that in order to maintain the integrity of economic and monetary union, alternative ways of maintaining access to markets or reducing the cost of borrowing for member states must be sought. these alternative solutions should not rely exclusively on rescue mechanisms such as the european stability mechanism (esm) and the european financial stability facility (efsf).
in writing. – the situation in syria is a slap in the face of the international community. there have been situations before this which were less tragic but which mobilised the international community in curtailing human tragedy, even without the un’s blessing. sadly, not this time. the official explanation for inaction is the russian and chinese veto in the security council, preventing any legitimate action in that country. the truth is that, after afghanistan and iraq, there is not much stomach for another intervention with a doubtful ending. moreover, one does not know whether the end result will not prove worse than the initial situation. in the meantime, the syrians will continue to suffer and die. and, when everything is over, they will be entitled to look into our eyes and ask: where were you when we needed you most?
from the views of my colleagues so far, it would seem that we should not discuss this partnership and cooperation agreement. but my view is that these agreements give the european union the opportunity to be a relevant political actor, to enter the political arena and not just to show off its right to sit in the gallery and criticize, because you are just as guilty when you criticize without offering solutions. this partnership and cooperation agreement gives the european union the chance to get involved in finding solutions to the situation in iraq. the european union must take some responsibility for this. let us not forget the events of ten years ago and how readily we supported the united states in this war. but i think this partnership and cooperation agreement is very important from a security point of view. what do we want? do we want an iraq that we all know is torn by ethnic conflict, an iraq that can de-state and end up in a syrian-style civil war? do we have the capacity, as the european union, to find solutions for peace in the region? we have that capability, to the extent that we're politically involved. and this treaty and this agreement give the european union the opportunity to get involved. the partnership is mutually beneficial: to us because, we must admit, it has an important economic component; iraq benefits because, in my view, we can export our democratic know-how and we can support democratic institutions in strengthening them. on one condition: that there are not many who are interested in taking the resources of those who have a problem of survival at the moment, actually stealing those resources. the iraqi government must be careful to manage iraqi resources, and for that to happen, the european union must give the people a chance, not the government.
mr president, i will start with the conclusion. the agreement will be approved. this is my opinion. the real question is: to what extent does the agreement represent an effective instrument permitting the eu to support the reintegration of a democratic iraq into the international community and its institutions, including the wto? iraq, however, is still facing formidable challenges both internally and externally. internally – with my romanian experience in mind – the main challenge to the iraqi authorities is to provide their citizens with basic services, such as decent living conditions, health and education and above all security. the iraqi citizens should be convinced that their life is now better than how it was under saddam, otherwise all sacrifices would seem to have been in vain and the momentum for change will fade away. the iraqi authorities still have a long way to go in order to reconcile the old traditions with their new democracy and respect for law and human rights – above all the right of minorities to live – and with having a federalist state organisation. the external challenges are also impressive. in that respect, there is no secret that with regard to syria iraq does not share the eu’s perceptions and positions, where it is quietly supporting the assad regime, sometimes in apparent conjunction with iran. however, such differences do not annul the value of the present agreement which will hopefully provide the framework for their discussion.
mr president, eur 120 billion is the estimated amount of money lost to corruption in europe per year. in 2011 over one thousand irregularities, accounting for a total of eur 400 million, were reported as illegal activities. corruption distorts competition and the market. it decreases the level of investments, reduces public financing and undermines citizens’ trust in institutions. the 2012 eu barometer on corruption shows that 74% of europeans believe that corruption is a major problem in their country and also shows that 57% believe that national politicians awarding public tenders are involved in corruption; 47% believe that national officials awarding public tenders are involved in corruption. fraud, tax evasion, money laundering and corruption all contributed to the economic crisis and have slowed down the recovery. we must act now. first we need a full and tough implementation of national anti-corruption legislation. in many eu countries anti-corruption laws are not implemented. political will is often lacking. where national politicians or officials are involved in corruption and fraud, one should not be naive and expect them to impose strict anti-corruption measures and sanctions. this is why eu direct anti-corruption legislation is a must. the reporting mechanism we have in the union should be a step forward to anti-corruption legislation at union level. another vital element is the freezing and confiscation of the means and proceeds of crime. these should be frozen and confiscated in both criminal and civil proceedings. if we do not do this, all our talk, laws or actions against corruption and organised crime are useless and, at the very least, naive. our laws and practice must be based on the principles ‘follow the money’ and ‘follow the money across borders’. the fight against corruption and organised crime must involve strong support – including financial support – for investigative journalism. independent investigative reporting is vital in exposing organised crime and corruption within a country or across the world. look at the websites of the investigative dashboard or the rise project and see what valuable work has been done by independent reporters in exposing cross-border organised crime. once again, corruption costs money and is more expensive than the instruments to fight it. therefore i say once again, do not bet on corruption.
member of the commission. - mr president, i will try to confirm to you, on this serious and important subject, the determination of the commission, supported by the council, the determination of my colleagues, mr šemeta and mrs malmström, in particular, who are committed to the fight against fraud and corruption, a determination - i am addressing mrs ayala sender - to act on most of these issues, as many have wished, at the right level, namely the european level, and as quickly as possible. several of you have mentioned the particular case of my former colleague, mr john dalli. i would like to confirm what president barroso has already said in front of you and what you know, namely that the olaf monitoring committee, composed of external personalities, was able to access olaf's final report, that with the reform of olaf, which we are working on and which many of you have wanted, the procedural rights of the persons concerned will be clarified and that cooperation between olaf, the judicial authorities and the european institutions will be strengthened. the final olaf investigation report on this case was forwarded to the maltese judicial authorities, the attorney general. olaf and the commission cannot therefore - i confirm this - give information on the content of the investigation, and then - i am addressing mr wikström - as president barroso has said, we also have to respect the presumption of innocence. the commission will, however, examine any new request for information from the european parliament very carefully, in accordance with the rules in force. mr president, several of you have mentioned the european public prosecutor's office, as i have done. i would first like to say to mr schmidt that this parquet - as i said myself earlier - has been discussed for quite some time. i remember, moreover, the debates on the preparation of the european constitution, in which i participated at the time as a european commissioner - article 86 of the treaty already mentions this - on the basis of eurojust. we are therefore working on several scenarios, based on what is stated in the treaty. i would like to tell president theurer, whom i listened to very carefully, that we are working as seriously and as quickly as possible on a subject which - as he knows - is extremely complex, both technically and legally. as regards the date of the proposal, we are therefore working very hard, very quickly, and we are trying to put in place a text which proposes a genuine european public prosecutor's office, which, mr president theurer, is effective and operational from the outset. the fact that we are working seriously on a complex subject, mrs gräßle, means that we need time, and probably more time than some people here legitimately would like, but i want to give this explanation of a serious proposal, which will be - we hope - after it has been voted on and, perhaps improved - operational, so that this european public prosecutor's office can be effective from the outset. i confirm that this proposal will be put forward jointly by my colleagues, mr šemeta and mrs malmström, and, of course, by vice-president reding, next june. i would also like to confirm that we are working on several options, including on the one hand a more centralised model, and on the other hand a model which would be more decentralised, with prosecutors delegated in the member states. but, again, this is a work in progress and we are doing it very seriously. i have noted, and i thank you for it, mrs gräßle, your support for the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european union's financial interests. we are in favour - you have mentioned this - of a proposal based on the legal basis of article 325 so that the rules on the protection of interests are very homogeneous throughout the european union and identical in all the member states. finally, several of you have mentioned specific cases here in austria, in bulgaria. mrs parvanova, whom i listened to very carefully - i always listen to you very carefully, even though my headphones are low - but also mr mölzer, mr borghezio and, just now, mr kovatchev, on all these cases, i will not comment, i do not know them in detail; if there are special cases, they can always be referred to olaf and the competent services will examine them in an objective and impartial manner. but more generally, it is the management of the european structural funds, which i know quite well, since in my first term as european commissioner i had the honour of being in charge of this regional policy, and i saw the need to be rigorous. i would like to remind you that 80% of the european structural funds are managed directly by the member states, under their responsibility and also for their control. olaf can and does investigate when it receives sufficiently clear and convincing information. he's competent at that point. that's all i can say. but beyond the management of the present cases, i would like to point out that progress is possible in general in public procurement and in particular in public procurement for appropriations committed under the european budget. i would like to say to mrs borsellino, who has mentioned this point in particular, that this is precisely one of the objectives we are pursuing in the context of the single market act, where i presented to you, now a year and a month ago, two proposals which have many objectives, in terms of public procurement, but of course also the simplification of public procurement for the benefit of businesses, in particular small businesses and contracting authorities, the qualification of public procurement to take better account of cross-cutting concerns, social inclusion, environmental protection, innovation, but also, ladies and gentlemen, the subjects we have discussed today: the fight against corruption, against favoritism, the requirement for transparency and the fight against conflicts of interests. that is also what i am aiming at with this proposal on your table, on which many of you are working, on the simplification of the directive on public procurement and then with this new proposal in a field which also presents risks and where there is, for the time being, no minimum european framework, which is that of concessions. i presented these two texts to you in december, a year ago, and i hope that we can get the two texts on public procurement, which concern the rules on transparency, together with simplification, as i said earlier, approved under the irish presidency, madam minister. i could answer that, mr president, as simply as possible, by promising to pass on all your questions to my colleagues, mrs malmström, mr šemeta and mrs reding, who are more directly responsible for the european commission's proposals and actions in this very important area.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i wish to thank the members for what has been a sometimes lively – but very engaging – debate, and a very important one. we all agree that the fight against corruption is an issue that concerns all of us as public representatives. it is an issue that certainly is not confined to certain member states. it is one that affects every member state and one that crosses borders and therefore needs a strong european response. a range of members have talked about the risks of corruption eroding the democratic system. ms fajon, ms gräßle, mr schmidt and many others talked about the risks in terms of public opinion and in terms of public trust in the democratic system if we are not seen to take decisive action on the general issue of corruption and putting in place concrete steps to tackle it. one point that is important and i want to pick up on was raised by ms gräßle. it is that we set very high standards when we talk about enlargement and candidate countries, but in order for the european union to be in a position to exert pressure on countries to reform and to meet the criteria, we have to be in a strong position ourselves. in other words, we have to adhere to the type of standards and the type of transparency that we talk about and that we insist upon during the accession process. a number of points have been made in respect of olaf. i note that a range of members have mentioned it. it is important to say that the irish presidency is very pleased at the fact that agreement was reached in council in respect of the olaf regulation. i think this will help to address some of the concerns, at least, that have been raised by members such as mr tavares. the revised regulation will help to increase protection of the union’s financial interests, and that is very important for the credibility of the union and the credibility of our financial instruments. if we can achieve agreement with parliament, which i believe we will, and which is a priority for our presidency, that can contribute very positively. one point in respect of the proposed directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests: this is a priority for the irish presidency. i know that, within council, some member states have concerns about some of the details of the commission proposal. however, i am absolutely confident that we will be able to reach agreement as there is very strong support for its aims. developing a directive will add value to the fight against fraud, which is important and will meet the concerns of many of the members of this house, so we will continue with that constructive process. we will work on the substantive issues, and look forward to engaging with parliament in the very near future on that. finally, i just want to reiterate our full commitment to working constructively with the commission and with parliament in strengthening all aspects of our anti-corruption policies at eu level. i have taken good note of the concerns and of some very constructive suggestions that have been made here during the course of this evening’s debate, and i want to say that as the presidency we will certainly ensure that there is continuing and full cooperation and engagement with parliament. i look forward to further and more detailed discussions in due course on a range of proposals.
in writing. corruption continues to be a widespread phenomenon throughout the european union. most polls show that european citizens regard corruption as a real problem, regardless of their country of origin. the fight against corruption must be a strategic priority, both at union level and in the member states. among the main problems identified by citizens are public procurement procedures. this requires greater transparency and closer scrutiny of contracts awarded. the rules on procurement need to be better applied, especially where the beneficiaries are public authorities. i therefore believe that, although most member states have adopted the necessary legislation to combat corruption effectively, implementation still lacks. therefore, if the application of anti-corruption legislation at national level does not produce results, then concrete steps should be taken towards the adoption of such legislation at community level. this will ensure more efficient and transparent spending of public money and increase citizens' confidence in national decision-making.
i would like to express my disappointment for the cancellation of the conference, but unfortunately the situation in the region does not allow for the best conditions for such an event. the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east can be a solution for stability in the region. however, such an initiative should be regional and not external. the states in the area must first consider whether such a measure would ensure their security. and for such an initiative to work, i believe that peace must be established before any decision is made. at the same time, trust between the countries of the region must be increased in order to revive dialogue. and now, major efforts are needed to restore trust between the states in the region.
i believe that the conclusion of an interim agreement between the union and the states of eastern and southern africa is the solution to minimize any possible disruption to trade with these partners. the countries concerned will thus gradually open their markets to european exports over the next 15 years, to the benefit of both parties. and the inclusion of rules of origin, development cooperation and trade protection instruments in the agreement will bring mutual benefits. on the other hand, the agreement's correlation with the cotonou agreement in terms of good governance, democracy and human rights will be important. and here i am referring specifically to the situation in zimbabwe, which, according to a recent report by human rights watch, has failed to make the necessary reforms to ensure free and fair elections this year.
the adoption of the community customs code has consolidated and simplified the union's customs legislation. the customs code is currently being modernised to facilitate trade while ensuring a high level of border security. one of the efforts made in this direction by the world trade organization is to harmonize the non-preferential origin of goods. the commission has developed various mandatory rules of origin. although the commission believes that the new rules will lead to increased legal certainty regarding imports, it remains unclear how the future provisions will be monitored and implemented. an impact assessment on all parties involved is indispensable. the ultimate objective of the modernisation of the community customs code should be to facilitate import and export procedures. special attention should be paid to smes so that their work is not affected.
european citizens who travel frequently within the eu may find that some airlines apply unfair restrictions to the baggage that passengers can take on board. i am talking about the size and weight of the permitted items, as well as the items that passengers are allowed to carry. i understand and respect the constraints of on-board security and the pressure of storage space, but i believe that measures should be taken at european level to avoid abuses by airlines and excessive charges on baggage. checking frames for baggage that do not match the dimensions displayed and the imposition of a maximum weight of 7 kg are situations that create a lot of inconvenience. i ask the european commission to look into these problems in detail and to take measures to ensure that the hand luggage regime is fairly regulated and that passengers' rights are respected.
over the last ten years, passenger traffic on international routes served by regional airports has increased by 84%. the european airport network is composed of 90% regional airports, the role and relevance of which have expanded significantly over the last ten years. we call on the commission to take firm action to limit the aggressive and abusive practices of some air carriers on the single baggage rule. we ask the commission to propose a timetable of measures to harmonize commercial practice in respect of hand luggage. these measures are necessary to protect passengers against excessive restrictive practices and to allow them to bring hand luggage on board in a reasonable manner. the single baggage rule and other restrictions on hand baggage imposed by certain companies are a violation of competition. we call on the commission to investigate the practice of baggage registration fees, which often appear disproportionately high and which violate the fair and transparent pricing practices and policy of the european union.
this regulation, which was voted by the european parliament in october 2010, is in fact a response to the need to improve transparency and to better inform european consumers about industrial products entering the european market. such a regulation is all the more useful as the european union currently has no relevant legislation in this area. i find it regrettable that the executive has decided, by withdrawing the regulation, to ignore the right of european consumers to identify products that meet certain social, environmental and safety standards, depending on the country of origin. finally, commissioner, i would like to say that i do not believe that more transparency and better information for european consumers means protectionism.
mercosur is the eighth largest trading partner of the european union. exports to the region have increased significantly in recent years, with the union ranking first in 2010 both among the region's trading partners and among foreign investors. the conclusion of a balanced and fair trade agreement with the area, synonymous with better economic integration and conducive to the conclusion of the association agreement, represents an opportunity for both regions. in this context, the relaunch in may 2010 of negotiations for the establishment of a free trade area was welcomed. however, these have made limited progress, reflecting the protectionist measures that some countries in the region have decided to apply. i hope that the meeting next week in santiago de chile, which you are attending, commissioner, will be marked by dialogue and will allow a rapid compromise to be found on the trade pillar of the agreement.
in 2009, the commission estimated that an eu-brazil comprehensive air transport agreement that opened up the market would provide for an additional 460 000 passengers and up to €460 million in consumer benefits in the first year of opening up. it is estimated that such an eu-brazil agreement would have a positive impact on employment. the total number of jobs created directly and indirectly as a result of liberalisation is estimated at 980. i would like to ask the commission, as rapporteur for the eu-brazil air transport agreement, what is the state of play in concluding the eu-brazil air transport agreement? is the next eu-mercosur ministerial meeting, to be held at the end of january, also considering the air agreement with a view to unblocking negotiations? finally, i would stress that the dialogue between the eu and mercosur must also take the form of exchanges of experience and joint initiatives to develop the production and use of renewable energy sources.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am not very much surprised by the remarks that have been made across all political groups. i think there is a majority in this parliament in favour of having serious negotiations with mercosur and a good result, but of course it takes two to tango, and that is the real problem. it is mercosur that insisted, in 2010, that we should reopen the negotiations. we have done some valuable work since then, as i said in my introduction, but there does not seem to be the political will or political scope to make any further offers at this particular moment in time. is everything lost? i do not think so, because recently the brazilians conducted a new survey of the industrial community and in fact its assessment was much more positive than it was one or two years ago. so things are not necessarily all moving in the wrong direction, but i must say that i simply do not know whether we will be able to unblock the negotiations at this moment in time. so i am waiting for the meeting in santiago to shed more light on this topic. a lot of questions were raised about agriculture. i am not surprised by that either, but why do you always think that agriculture is going to be sacrificed? and why do you keep saying that we are not ‘monnaie d’échange’? obviously, such a trade agreement would have to be balanced between a number of sectors, and agriculture is one of them. it is a very important sector, but it is not the only sector. you cannot make an agreement on agricultural products only, and you cannot make an agreement on industrial products or services only. so everything has to be taken together, and of course a balance has to be struck and discussed with the council and with parliament. but why are we so defensive? i can only see that the world market for agriculture products is moving in the right direction and, for the first time ever, we have a surplus in our agricultural exports. we have a surplus of eur 7 billion. that has never happened before. so, please be a little less defensive. and when it comes to numbers, i do not think it is true that millions of jobs would be lost. we can make a sensible agreement with mercosur provided that they have the political will and possibility to do so. that is the real question. a lot of speakers also hinted at the existence of a plan b. we do not have a plan b at this moment in time, and i do not think that a number of countries in mercosur have a plan b either. that is not on the agenda for the time being. you never can tell what will happen in the future, but right now we are still talking about discussions between the european union on the one hand and mercosur on the other. but time is moving on, and i quite agree with mr moreira that we cannot endlessly continue with this. they have to make up their minds, and they should tell us what they really want and what they really can do to enable an agreement to be reached between these two very important economic and political partners. so let us wait for the meeting next week in santiago, and i will report back to you upon my return.
mr president, i welcome the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. this is a historic agreement and our first contractual relationship between the union and the new state of iraq. i hope that the new parliamentary cooperation committee will become a good forum for discussion and policy advice. i endorse also the clause in the pca that mentions the strict conditionality for eu financial support according to the principle of ‘more for more’. the eu must continue to support iraq’s development. we must support this country as much as we can on its way to peace, the rule of law and economic prosperity. strict conditionality criteria for reforms in sensitive areas such as justice, human rights, anti-corruption, public administration and security will help further this goal.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that iraq should be encouraged in its path towards democracy. the conclusion of the partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union is a first step, but more efforts are needed from the iraqi authorities to demonstrate their commitment to democratic consolidation. i am still concerned that the death penalty is still in force in iraq and the number of executions is increasing. ethnic and religious violence also undermine the security of the state. the attempted assassination of the finance minister, as well as the murder of a member of parliament in a suicide attack, confirms that the situation is very tense. i believe the government must make every effort to reduce these tensions and to hold this year's elections in a safe environment.
in writing. − the political and trade provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement will provide the basis for a more intensive political dialogue on a range of issues of bilateral, regional and global importance. i also believe that trade relations between iraq and the eu will improve, by supporting iraq's development and reform efforts to facilitate its integration into the world economy. an important point in the dialogue between the eu and the iraqi authorities is the respect for human rights and fundamental civil and individual freedoms, with a particular focus on cases of human rights violations. in my view, it is important that the eu delegation in baghdad is fully operational to enable the eu to play a meaningful role in the transition in iraq.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. i voted for the amendment that calls on iraq to ratify the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty as soon as possible. we call on the iraqi government to ensure that the country's resources are used in a transparent and responsible manner for the benefit of all the iraqi people. we call on the commission to support this by opting for a flexible interpretation of the requirements of the partnership and cooperation agreement as regards quantitative restrictions, export duties and property ceilings for foreign investment, especially in the energy sector. the fight against corruption should remain a key objective of the iraqi authorities. the eu should make every effort to create strong incentives for european companies to support the anti-corruption measures in iraq. the iraqi authorities should use the country's oil revenues as a tool and opportunity for sustainable social and economic reconstruction, to the benefit of iraqi society as a whole, and should promote a process of democratic reform.
mr president, i would like to refer to the eu’s financial contribution to iraq. the eu is a major financial donor and has systematically contributed to the country’s progress. eujust lex- iraq has been present on the ground since 2005, and its mandate has been extended until the end of the year. however, the situation in the middle east continues to be volatile. there are 34 000 syrian refugees reported in kurdistan. iraq is struggling with internal problems of its own: youth unemployment at 30%, rising ethnic and religious tensions, fights between political parties. money, if well channelled, can make a difference in these difficult times. the pca with iraq is the first building block of good partnership. the next step, however, should involve not only financial assistance but more expertise and knowledge-sharing, particularly in areas such as human rights, transparency, anti-corruption and the rule of law.
i voted in favour of the recommendation because iraq is a very important country for ensuring stability in a region which is critical from the point of view of international security. that is why i consider it important to conclude the cooperation agreement between the union and iraq. the inclusion of a human rights clause in the agreement will encourage iraq to move forward with democratic reforms and strengthen the rule of law. the iraqi authorities must pay greater attention to the protection of religious and ethnic minorities. at the same time, protection should be extended to vulnerable groups such as women, refugees and displaced persons. i believe that through the agreement the union will be better able to support the consolidation of effective political and institutional governance in iraq. it is also important how the union will engage in providing technical assistance to iraq to ensure that the economic situation improves.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it very useful for the eu to cooperate with the government in baghdad in supporting the iraqi people and authorities in the process of reconstruction, stabilisation and normalisation, the fight against poverty, the development of the education and health system, the promotion of fundamental freedoms for every citizen (regardless of sex, race or religion) and the fight against unemployment. this partnership will also enable dialogue on the abolition of the death penalty, illegal child labour and discrimination against women and minorities, as well as the promotion of democracy and human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because i believe that the european union can contribute, through cooperation with the republic of iraq, to combating poverty and to facilitating and improving services that meet the basic needs of iraqi citizens, such as health and education. the eu can also facilitate iraq's democratic transition by creating a cooperation council characterised by regular meetings at ministerial level. last but not least, as rapporteur for monitoring eu-iraq relations, i support this move to deepen the trade agreement with iraq, placing it in the sphere of 'partnership and cooperation' agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of an eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. the aim of this agreement, concluded for a period of 10 years, renewable, is to create a solid basis for strengthening the ties between iraq and the eu. the political part of the agreement involves the introduction of an annual ministerial and senior official dialogue on peace, foreign and security policy, dialogue and national reconciliation, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, good governance and regional stability and integration. we recommend that the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including with regard to religious and ethnic minorities and vulnerable parts of iraqi society such as women, refugees and displaced persons, be emphasised in bilateral discussions with the iraqi authorities. as regards trade and investment, the non-preferential agreement incorporated the fundamental rules of the wto, although iraq is not a member of the wto. the agreement contains preferential elements, notably in public procurement, services and investment. the partnership and cooperation agreement demonstrates the eu's determination to play a major role in iraq's transition process.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution. 2013 is a key election year for zimbabwe which will test the strength of its democracy and constitutional order. the latest human rights watch report, published on 10 january, expressed concerns about the current political situation. there are disagreements between president mugabe and the prime minister over the election date, and therefore many fear a repetition of the past violence. the political agreement signed in 2008 between zimbabwe’s two main parties did not foster much-needed legislative and electoral reforms. therefore the signing of an epi with the eu comes at a crucial moment for zimbabwe. i believe that this agreement could be a step towards more political engagement for the eu. the union must support more effectively reforms, fair elections and the pluralistic political system. it is true that trade can fight poverty, but not in the absence of functioning democratic institutions.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it beneficial to conclude an interim partnership agreement between the union and the states of east and southern africa. however, i am concerned about the human rights situation in zimbabwe, which undermines the commitments made by the national unity government in harare. i believe that in order to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, the abuse of journalists and members of civil society in zimbabwe needs to stop. it is also very important to give the opportunity to all those who meet the legal conditions to participate in this year's elections. in this way, the authorities will demonstrate their commitment to continuing democratic reforms. however, if this is not the case, the union will have to use all available means, including the clause suspending the provisions of the interim partnership agreement for zimbabwe.
in writing. − economic partnership agreements are compatible with world trade organisation rules, agreements aiming to support regional integration through trade development, sustainable development and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of acp economies into the world economy. zimbabwe's economic recovery is still fragile and certain state policies pose a threat to future eu-zimbabwe economic relations. at the same time, as an awepa member, i consider the provisional entry into force of the aipe to be an important step towards strengthening the partnership between the eu and the states of eastern and southern africa within a stable legal framework. it is important to continue negotiations with a view to reaching a full agreement that encourages the growth of open and fair trade, investment and regional integration. the government of zimbabwe should take all necessary measures to ensure that no one is subjected to harassment or intimidation with regard to human rights. the eu delegation in harare should continue to provide assistance to the government of national unity in zimbabwe to improve the human rights situation in the run-up to the elections, which should be peaceful and credible, in line with the eu standards expected by any of its trading partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the interim economic partnership agreement (epa) between the european union and the states of eastern and southern africa in the context of the current situation in zimbabwe. the eu must promote fair trade with developing countries, based on full respect for ilo standards and labour conditions, and ensure that social and environmental standards are applied at the highest possible level. we regret the lack of a robust human rights clause in the epa and reiterate the call for binding, non-negotiable human rights clauses in eu trade agreements. we also regret the omission of a chapter on sustainable development and a requirement to comply with international labour and environmental standards. the provisional entry into force of the epa is an important step towards strengthening the partnership between the eu and the four african countries concerned (seychelles, madagascar, mauritius and zimbabwe) in a stable legal framework. we stress the importance of continuing negotiations to reach a full agreement aimed at fostering increasingly open and fair trade, investment and regional integration.
mr president, i welcome an agreement which promotes economic cooperation between countries in eastern and southern africa on the one hand and the european union on the other. we must ensure that countries signing economic partnership agreements with the eu are offered a fair deal. we also must ensure that in these countries, in addition to the trade we can help to foster, there is a stable and well-functioning democracy. we must ensure that money does not go into private pockets; we must ensure that money really produces progress and is not subject to corruption or fraud. i support the idea that economic partnerships with african countries are a good policy for the union. we should recall, however, the conditionality criteria used for our neighbourhood partners. some of these – deeper democracy, fair elections, impartial justice, anti-corruption measures and anti-fraud measures – could and should be included in future epas.
in writing. − the economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european community and its member states (esa) is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and highlights the importance of continuing negotiations towards a comprehensive agreement that will encourage trade, investment and regional integration in the region. the agreement contains provisions on rules of origin, development cooperation, fisheries, trade defence instruments and dispute settlement. in 2010, total eu imports from the whole of the eastern and southern africa (esa) group reached eur 2.88 billion, or 0.2% of total eu imports, comprising mainly processed tuna, coffee, sugar cane sugar, tobacco, cut flowers and pig iron. eu exports to the aes, consisting primarily of machinery, vehicles, pharmaceuticals and chemicals, reached approximately eur 3.99 billion in the same year. the eu contributes to regional integration through measures such as the exclusion of acp trade from the most favoured nation clause and by allowing the efta states to maintain regional preferences. as an awepa member, i believe that development cooperation also needs to aim at preparing businesses for international competition and supporting exporters to meet eu import standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the interim agreement establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european union and its member states. in 2010, total eu imports from the whole of the eastern and southern africa (esa) group reached eur 2.88 billion, or 0.2% of total eu imports, comprising mainly processed tuna, coffee, sugar cane sugar, tobacco, cut flowers and ferroalloys. imports from the eea countries initiating interim agreements accounted for around 70% of eu imports from the eea region. eu exports to the aes, consisting primarily of machinery, vehicles, pharmaceuticals and chemicals, reached approximately eur 3.99 billion in the same year. the interim agreement provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for exports from mauritius, madagascar, the seychelles and zimbabwe. these countries will gradually open their markets to european exports over the next 15 years, with exceptions (maximum 20% of eu imports) for certain products considered sensitive by these countries. these excluded products vary from country to country, but mainly include agricultural products. the agreement contains provisions on rules of origin, development cooperation, fisheries, trade defence instruments and dispute settlement.
mr president, i voted in favour of the present motion for a resolution to acknowledge a possible distortion effect of state aids on competition in the internal market. for instance 40% of the cases of state aid granted under the block exemption regulations are reported as possibly problematic. the state aid regulations had to be modernised and this is what happened with this package. however, i regret that parliament is only given a consultative role in this crucial reform. state-aid-related reforms should be brought in line with other areas of market integration and economic regulation where codecision is the rule. therefore i call for the establishment of interinstitutional arrangements to overcome this deficit.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the modernisation of state aid is necessary to stimulate economic growth and improve the fiscal position of the member states. in my view, the reform proposed by the european commission is aimed at achieving the common objective of inclusive and sustainable economic growth, and state aid control is essential to ensure the proper functioning of the single market. i also believe that resources should be directed in a balanced way to both high-impact and low-impact cases. the lack of involvement of the european parliament in the decision-making process is, in my view, a gap in the reform. there are good reasons for parliament to exercise its right of democratic oversight over state aid monitoring acts. i therefore believe that parliament's opinion on this matter should be taken into account.
in writing. − the european commission has embarked on a complex process of modernising state aid rules to take account of recent developments in the eu's internal market. i support the european executive's efforts in this regard and stress that the new legislative framework should aim to provide more targeted state aid with less public expenditure. i encourage the timely implementation of measures on the modernisation of state aid, as the proper use and monitoring of such aid will play an important role in achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 growth strategy. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the modernisation of state aid. we welcome the commission communication on the modernisation of state aid and the new commission proposals for regulations. the commission must ensure that stimulating growth, as one of the overall objectives of this reform, will not lead to a further increase in public debt. i voted for the amendment which stresses the need for better targeted state aid, which implies less public spending and does not distort competition, while supporting the transition to a knowledge-based economy. i also voted to delete from the same paragraph the reference calling for less state aid. we stress that state aid must be designed to promote the development of services, knowledge and infrastructure itself and not to support specific companies. i voted against the last part of paragraph 10, which calls on the commission to guarantee a long-term reduction in the level of state aid. we request further clarification on the 40% of state aid cases granted under the block exemption regulations, which could be problematic. this is a problem for new entrants and for small and medium-sized enterprises, with a distorting effect on competition.
mr president, i deplore the terrible accident at the tazreen factory on 24 november 2012. 112 lives were lost due to an act of sabotage and improper working conditions. bangladesh is a developing economy struggling to export its products to international markets. working conditions are poor; half of the people live on less than a dollar a day. these circumstances can breed conflicts in a country with an already difficult past. i would like to lend my support to parliament’s call for the imposition of safety rules for factory sites. this is not enough however. the eu should try to engage the bangladeshi government in a dialogue over a development agenda with a human rights component and with safety regulations. the cooperation agreement on partnership and cooperation gives us the necessary institutional framework but then we have to fill in the form.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the fires in the garment factories in bangladesh show that standards of safety at work are very easily overlooked. in addition to the very low wages, workers are exposed to major risks in the workplace. in the context of bangladesh being a major global producer of garments, i believe that the authorities should initiate a plan to review the safeguards in this industry and those who do not comply with such rules should be sanctioned very severely. another solution would be for large clothing companies to contract only with those factories that meet all labor standards. but these firms are often more interested in profit than in the welfare of the workers in their factories.
in writing. − the loss of life in fires in various textile factories is not a unique event in south asia, with hundreds of workers exposed to similar risks at work, due to the fact that fire safety standards are very poor and law enforcement is flawed. to end this unacceptable situation, the european union, through the european commission, needs to actively promote the obligation of responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with particular emphasis on ensuring strict compliance with the legal obligations these companies have in the field of labour protection and human rights. i also believe that the european external action service should ensure that the european union delegations act as contact points for complaints against eu companies and their subsidiaries that do not comply with international labour standards for their employees. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − at least 112 people died in the tazreen factory fire in ashulia district of dhaka, bangladesh, on 24 november 2012 and 289 people died in a fire in karachi, pakistan, in september 2012. there are about 4,000 textile factories in bangladesh, which employ more than two million people, making bangladesh the world's second largest exporter of garments after china. rising labour costs in other parts of the world have led to an increase in low-skilled jobs in india, pakistan, cambodia, vietnam and, in particular, bangladesh, where clothing production accounts for 75% of exports. the european commission must work with local authorities, the ilo and all stakeholders in the textile sector to improve working conditions. the commission should actively promote responsible business conduct, especially among eu companies operating abroad, with a particular focus on compliance with international standards and rules on human rights, labour and social protection and the environment. active consultation and involvement of representative organisations, including free and independent trade unions, is required to promote quality employment and decent working conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the victims of the recent fires in textile factories, particularly in bangladesh, because the eu, as an importer, must contribute to improving human rights, labour and environmental standards, without which hundreds of workers lose their lives every year. i support the need to make responsible business conduct compulsory for european union companies operating abroad and at the same time to cooperate with national and local authorities in these countries in establishing an effective and independent system of quality inspections of industrial equipment and buildings, with a view to applying international standards in the field of safety at work.
in writing. - i voted for this ep resolution because i consider it unacceptable that in south asia human lives are lost every year in textile factory fires and that those responsible for this criminal negligence go unpunished. in bangladesh alone, 600 workers have lost their lives since 2005, and bangladesh is the second largest clothing producer in the world. i hope that those responsible for the textile factory fires in this country will be brought to justice and that european retailers who have worked with the businesses involved in these types of fatal accidents will take responsibility and contribute to the compensation schemes for the victims and their families.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the victims of the recent fires in textile factories, particularly in bangladesh. at least 112 people lost their lives in the tazreen factory fire in dhaka, bangladesh, in november 2012, and 289 people died in a fire in karachi, pakistan, in september 2012. sadly, textile factory fires in bangladesh have claimed 600 lives since 2005, many of them preventable. we welcome the commission's initiatives to provide support for improved safety in bangladesh factories. we call for this cooperation to be strengthened and extended to include, where appropriate, other countries in the region. we call for the establishment of a system of transnational legal cooperation between the eu and third countries that are signatories to bilateral trade agreements, to ensure that victims of breaches of social or environmental legislation, or of corporate social responsibility (csr) commitments or fair trade practices by multinationals and their direct subsidiaries, have effective access to justice in the country where the breach has occurred. we support the introduction of international lawsuits to ensure that corporate crimes are punished.
mr president, i regret the decision to postpone the conference on the establishment of a middle east zone free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass destruction which should have taken place in 2012. establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east region would be a key step towards achieving international peace and stability. the european union is playing a part in the process of moving towards the establishment of a weapons-of-mass-destruction-free zone in the middle east. this is, of course, positive and i call on our diplomacy, and in particular on the high representative, to make sure that the european union will continue to be an active stakeholder in this process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the recommendations of the conference for the review of the non-proliferation treaty on the establishment of a middle east zone free of weapons of mass destruction. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and on weapons of mass destruction is a fundamental element of international security. the most urgent security priorities are to prevent other states from acquiring or using nuclear weapons, to reduce the world's stockpiles of nuclear weapons, and to pursue a world without nuclear weapons. the eu encourages all states in the region to continue their constructive commitment to take further steps towards the complete elimination of all weapons of mass destruction whether nuclear, chemical or biological in the region. we are convinced that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the middle east would greatly enhance international stability and peace and could serve as an example and a step forward for the 'global zero' campaign. we call on all countries in the region to join the convention on the prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of chemical weapons and on their destruction and the biological and toxic weapons convention.
consumer protection is a priority of economic interests. the indication of the country of origin on products imported from third countries is essential to encourage high quality production and fair competition. i ask the commission to adopt, as soon as possible, sanctions applicable to states which infringe these provisions. controls at all points of entry of goods into the european union should be strengthened and carried out according to uniform procedures, in order to prevent exporters from using certain routes of access to the union to the detriment of others. if the goods are found not to be in conformity with the regulation, the owners of the goods must be held liable. implementing these provisions is the most important thing.
i voted in favour of the resolution because european consumers need to know what they are buying, where the product they are buying comes from and under what conditions it was produced. they also need to know the social and environmental standards applicable in the country of origin of the product. this will give our citizens better information and protection against dangerous products that are harmful to health. i therefore believe that the co-legislators must urgently reach a consensus on the regulation on the compulsory indication of the country of origin for certain products imported from third countries. the council has been trying to reach a common position since 2010 and the commission recently announced that it will withdraw the current regulation in 2013. an explanation by the commission on the withdrawal of the act is required, followed by a statement of the concrete measures to be taken to guarantee the indication of the origin of the products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported into the eu from third countries, as i consider it imperative that products entering the european market can be identified by european consumers by country of origin. although the european parliament voted on the regulation on the mandatory indication of the origin of products as early as october 2010, the council blocked the legislative proposal in the absence of a consensus of the member states on this subject. unfortunately, the european commission has also decided to withdraw its proposal for a regulation. the house therefore calls on the commission to reconsider its decision so that the rights of european consumers are respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution, consistent with the principle that citizens have the right to be informed about the products they buy. the resolution refers to the agricultural sector, stating that in some cases harmonised rules on the indication of the origin of imported products apply in this area. however, legislation in this area is still weak, which does not always allow consumers to make an informed choice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported into the eu from third countries. the eu does not apply harmonised rules on the indication of the origin of imported products, except in certain cases in the agricultural sector. some wto but non-eu countries, such as brazil, canada, china and the usa, have introduced mandatory origin indication mechanisms for certain products. we therefore need common provisions to increase competitiveness among wto member countries and to ensure a level playing field with producers in the main eu partner countries that have implemented indication of origin. we regret the commission's intention to withdraw the proposal for a regulation on the indication of the origin of certain products imported from third countries, adopted by parliament at first reading, without informing parliament in good time and without giving its colleagues a detailed explanation of its intention before taking this decision. we invite the commission to inform parliament of the timetable for the future measures needed to relaunch the legislative process and overcome the current impasse. we also call on the commission to undertake a comparative study of the legal rules on indication of origin in force and implemented in each wto member country.
as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with mercosur, i note that trade relations between the european union and mercosur are far from being at their peak. this association agreement is the most ambitious bi-regional agreement in the world and some 800 million people will benefit from its signature. to make this agreement a reality, i recommend that the commission make further efforts to integrate a much wider range of economic activities into trade, to keep pace with international competitors such as china and the united states, to provide trade assistance that enables producers to reduce their transaction costs and improve quality standards, and, not least, to propose complementary offers that support both the economic development interests of our partners and the interests of the european union, while promoting our core values in the european union.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the european union is mercosur's most important trading and investment partner. more than two years after the launch of the negotiations for the eu-mecosur association agreement, there is still no clear picture of the results achieved. the current aim of the negotiations is to conclude a comprehensive trade agreement with clear advantages. it would allow the union to strengthen its economic ties with a strategic partner. at the same time, the undeniable advantages do not eliminate the difficulties involved in concluding such an agreement. they relate in particular to mercosur's structural weaknesses as well as to trade issues, with fears of a negative impact on sectors such as sugar or animal products. i believe that the trade agreement between the union and mercosur must be balanced, bring benefits to both sides and not affect any sector of the member states' economies.
in writing. − the european union and mercosur would benefit from an ambitious free trade agreement, including provisions on social rights and environmental protection. however, negotiations have not progressed over the past two and a half years, due to the protectionist measures that some mercosur countries have decided to implement. in this context, i voted in favour of the resolution calling on political leaders to commit more to finding a compromise that would lead to the relaunch of the trade agreement negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution, as the conclusion of the agreement was necessary. i am, however, disappointed that the text of the proposal refers to the respect by eu trading partners of social and environmental standards in all agreements concluded, but does not refer to the respect by third countries of hygiene and food safety and animal welfare standards imposed on european farmers. fair trade can only be achieved if producers follow the same rules, and consumers are protected only if imported food meets the european standards they are used to.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the eu-mercosur trade negotiations, as this agreement concerns 800 million citizens. eu-mercosur negotiations were relaunched in 2010 with the aim of reaching a comprehensive, ambitious, balanced and mutually beneficial agreement. the eu is mercosur's largest trading partner and largest investor in mercosur, and mercosur is the eu's eighth largest trading partner. i voted for closer cooperation between the eu and mercosur and believe that greater integration of the two economies will be beneficial for both sides. for these negotiations to be successful, both sides must approach the talks in a spirit of openness and mutual trust. in this respect, we deplore the protectionist trade and investment measures taken by some countries in the mercosur region in recent months. we stress the need to create a stable framework for better investment protection. we recall the importance of including respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights, the rule of law, and social and environmental standards in all trade agreements concluded between the eu and third countries. i hope that the next eu-mercosur ministerial meeting at the end of january 2013 will be seen as an opportunity to affirm clear political commitments and to continue the progress of the negotiations.
i share the outrage over this barbaric rape, which has brought attention to a scourge that affects countless girls and women in india. sexual violence is fueled by caste discrimination and the impunity enjoyed by perpetrators of rape, due to outdated legislation and the passivity of law enforcement. it is unacceptable that gang rape is becoming a common occurrence in new delhi and that the rate of reported rapes in india is increasing by 25 percent, while there are estimates that there are many more unreported cases. we demand, through this resolution, that the indian authorities speed up the review of legislation and police reform to ensure the respect of women's basic rights. there is a need for programmes and institutions to assist victims of sexual assault, and the european union has a duty to focus its substantial support to india in health and education on combating violence against women.
in writing. in the last month, several shocking events have taken place in india: a 23-year-old student was brutally gang raped on a bus and died shortly after; a 16-year-old girl set herself on fire after being raped; a 17-year-old gang rape victim committed suicide after a police officer tried to convince her to withdraw her complaint and marry one of the attackers. in india, a rape is reported every 21 minutes. statistics in india show that between 2001 and 2011, in 3 out of 4 rape cases, the culprits were either acquitted or acquitted due to lack of evidence. a rape trial can take up to 15 years. these dramatic and alarming cases show that the indian authorities have failed to enforce the law and punish the victims. and this failure has led to an increase in crime. india receives eu funding, including for human rights and torture victims' protection programmes. i call for the blocking of this financial assistance from the union unless india immediately takes measures leading to investigations and summary trials, protection of victims and severe and dissuasive sanctions.
i shall refer, myself, to violence and aggression against minors. in recent months, some 80 minors, aged 15 to 17, have been held in adult detention centers in bahrain and subjected to physical and psychological abuse. for example, mohammad mohammad, a 16-year-old from sitra, was taken from his home in early december and locked up in the dry dock adult prison without access to his family or his lawyer. after nine days, he was transferred to a juvenile detention center and was released on december 20, 2012, without being charged and without knowing, until today, the reasons for his arrest. this is just one example. i call on the bahraini authorities to immediately stop this kind of arrests and assaults against minors. many of these arrests and violence are due to the participation of minors, along with adults, in demonstrations. the right to demonstrate is a right that the bahraini authorities must also respect. the bahraini judiciary must conduct impartial and transparent investigations and punish those responsible with dissuasive punishments.
the human rights situation in bahrain continues to be a concern. the decision of the court of cassation to uphold the sentences of the 13 dissidents confirms the inability of the judicial system to protect fundamental rights. i am also concerned that children's rights continue to be violated in bahrain. often they are tried and subjected to the same conditions of detention as adults, and cases of torture of minors have been reported. i believe that a comprehensive reform of the way the judicial and investigative authorities work will have to be initiated. only in this way can full respect for fundamental human rights be ensured. finally, i want to encourage the government to continue those measures to improve the status of women in society.
the author. - i would like to begin by saying that i was pleased to learn, just before this debate began, that a new prime minister had been appointed in the central african republic, in accordance with the agreement reached in libreville a few days ago. it's about the prime minister, who is liked by the opposition parties, mr. nicolas tiangaye. so, there you go! president bozize has caved in to these negotiations. the conflict, of course, was more than just a painful one, the conflict engaged with the seleka rebels. i would like to emphasize two points, because i have seen that many of my colleagues have now referred to natural resources, not human rights. we are, however, in a debate on human rights and i would first of all like to stress the need to combat impunity for serious human rights violations. secondly, we must obviously learn from the political crisis and encourage the holding of free, fair and credible elections, including by sending an election observation mission to the central african republic. (the president agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer is "blue cardboard". as you can see, mrs vergiat, we are in the midst of a debate on mali and algeria, and we risk forgetting the rather positive progress in the central african republic. that's the first point. secondly, this is a debate on a political situation which was very tense and which has had a rather positive outcome. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the central african republic is ranked first in the ranking of countries whose population is facing the greatest difficulties in survival. it's an eloquent classification for the state's bankruptcy caused by years of instability, rebellions and coups, exacerbated by the military offensive of the past few weeks. we condemn, of course, the brutal violations of human rights and, on the other hand, it is a good sign that the libreville agreement is being respected. the cessation of the clashes between the authorities and the seleka rebels, the creation of a government of national unity and the election of a new national assembly may be the first steps towards stability. the role of the african union and the economic community of central african states remains essential in this process, both through the intervention forces deployed in bangui and through diplomatic efforts. the restoration of peace must be accompanied by an end to all human rights abuses and the provision of safe access for emergency aid to all those in need of humanitarian assistance, in particular refugees.
although the central african republic is rich in natural resources, the country has faced decades of political instability, poverty, and internal violence. the events of december have deepened the crisis in which the country finds itself. i would like to welcome the appointment of a prime minister and hope that in the coming period a government of national unity will be formed. this could bring stability to the country and allow the authorities to focus more on democratic and economic reforms. last but not least, the new government should also address the reform of the army and the reintegration of former soldiers, including those from the rebel forces, into society. the union, in cooperation with the un security council, should monitor the implementation of these measures.
the delegations of the committee on agriculture to the canary islands and the azores gave us the opportunity to learn about the situation in the outermost regions and the problems facing farmers, as well as the need for specific measures to deal with the existing realities. issues such as remoteness, small agricultural area, economic dependence on a small number of products, difficult climate, additional transport costs for the supply of essential products for islanders, long distances from consumer markets, depopulation of these areas and the difficulties faced by banana producers are some of the problems that await a response from the european union, concretised by an increase in the resources allocated to them. i would stress that the specific supply arrangements must not affect local production and its development. i believe that the rapporteurs have covered the problems and many of the solutions to them and therefore i congratulate them on their work.
in writing. i welcome the report on agriculture in the outermost regions of the european union, considering that the whole union needs to be supported and that these regions are facing particular challenges, due in particular to their remoteness from the continent. i would also like to draw attention to the need to ensure appropriate support for agriculture in other types of peripheral regions of the eu, such as the danube delta in romania, which is at the eastern extremity of the union but is difficult to access and sparsely populated. the flora and fauna of the delta also have specific characteristics. i do not think that measures in favour of the outermost regions should be extended to such regions, i merely say that we must recognise their special character and allow appropriate support measures to be carried out in these territories, taking into account local specificities.
the most widespread form of human rights violation, domestic violence, unfortunately knows no geographical, cultural, economic or educational boundaries. the statistics of recent years are worrying all over the world, including in europe, and as the commissioner indicated at the outset, one in five women has been the victim of physical violence and one in ten of sexual violence. in my country, the statistics of the romanian police indicate that there has been a 26% increase in cases of violence against women in the last year, and these are official figures, the real number of victims being at least double. it is a serious phenomenon that is found in every member country of the european union. physical, sexual, emotional or financial abuse, harassment, mutilation, forced marriage and honour killings are serious and systematic violations of human dignity, which unfortunately occur on all continents. the european union and its member states are obliged to sign the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, because it is the international treaty that recognises acts of violence as a form of discrimination and introduces into law crimes that have not been criminalised until now. the coordination and monitoring of existing strategies and programmes, and in particular the establishment of new shelters and assistance centres for victims, are also needed. this type of violence results in disability, mutilation, emotional distress, reduced job performance, social isolation, and death. to save the human dignity of these millions of victims, we must make every effort.
commissioner reding, you are a person who has always reacted firmly to any kind of discrimination. that is why i would like to bring to your attention the initiative taken recently by a local leader of the social liberal coalition that is governing romania. local councillor rareş buglea has demanded that poor roma women who are unable to raise their children be sterilized, no more, no less. i'm particularly appalled by the fact that he was rhetorically asking, "why let her have a second child, why let her have a fifth child?" so we're dealing with discrimination based on gender, ethnicity and social status. moreover, it is a flagrant violation of the fundamental human right to life. it is surprising that this racist instigator has collaborated with a foundation that carries out projects funded by european funds for the protection of roma. they should have known that there is a european strategy for roma inclusion and that, as a member state of the european union, we cannot use practices that remind us of the holocaust, when over 400 000 jews and roma were sterilized. on the other hand, violence against women is just as reprehensible as discrimination. violent crime is often not reported, and when it is reported, it is not given the proper priority by the authorities. i will use as an example a tragedy that took place in bucharest last year, when a policeman killed his wife and her coworker in a shooting. there were 14 reports of aggressive behavior filed with the police against the man, but the authorities chose to ignore them.
as acknowledged by senior eu officials, violence against women is the most widespread form of human rights violation in today's society, regardless of geographical area, cultural, economic, educational or social background. to combat this form of discrimination, the european union still has work to do, including in terms of its role at international level, where violence against women is reaching alarming levels. given the terrible forms that aggression takes, it is important to bring all the measures together in an eu strategy to eliminate violence, a document that the european parliament has called for for some years. i believe that the eu and un efforts to provide women with security must be complemented by a bottom-up approach, namely by changing the mindset from an early age through educational programmes. it is also important to help eliminate gender stereotypes in the media, which risk distorting the image of women and perpetuating bad treatment.
smes are the engine of the european union. the 23 million smes are a key factor in boosting competitiveness, innovation, growth and job creation. however, they face many difficulties in accessing funding, and they have to meet even stricter criteria in the context of the crisis. improving access to finance for smes would help to remedy the current economic situation. the union should therefore aim to simplify administrative procedures, promote alternative financing mechanisms, strengthen local banking systems, complement european instruments for smes and encourage partnerships between banks, business associations and chambers of commerce. the structure of smes varies according to the speed of development, the level of technology or the sector of activity. to meet the needs of all types of businesses, the european commission has an obligation to promote a wide range of financing instruments, not just venture capital. finally, we cannot forget the social responsibility of this type of business. therefore, access to social security and an adequate level of safety at work must be guaranteed for all workers in small and medium-sized enterprises.
we all know that small and mediumsized enterprises are the main components of the economic system of the european union, and the development of employment depends to a large extent on the situation of these enterprises. however, because of the financial crisis, they are the ones most affected by the decline in lending and the general uncertainty in the economy. however, the financing problems are only part of the negative trends affecting smes, as many member states are making their situation more difficult by introducing additional measures. some governments, in order to reduce deficits and increase budget revenues, impose additional taxes on this sector. the new romanian government, which has just taken office, is doing the same, with the approval of the international monetary fund. the new tax measures of the government of victor ponta smes will be obliged to pay tax on their income rather than on their profits industry experts believe that they could lead to the bankruptcy of thousands of small businesses. this could not only lead to higher unemployment and lower consumption, but also delay the start of economic expansion.
in a europe still searching for viable solutions to the economic crisis, european smes are and remain the most vulnerable to access to finance. in parallel, it is found that a significant proportion of the citizens of the member states prefer to save money by depositing money in family bank accounts instead of investing in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that tax incentives should encourage citizens to become more involved in such actions, both domestically and across borders. they could start traditional family businesses or fast-growing micro-enterprises, high-tech firms or even social enterprises. this could be done by developing partnerships or joint programmes involving banks and other sme finance operators to activate this family economy.
smes are the backbone of the european economy and unfortunately the economic and financial crisis has dramatically affected their position and development prospects, with many smes lacking access to finance. given that european programmes, in particular structural and cohesion programmes, make a significant contribution to improving job creation and support for smes, i believe that there is a need for additional funding for the sme axes for the next programming period, namely 2014-2020, for funding of training programmes for entrepreneurs to improve their knowledge on access to finance, and, not least, for the commission to organise exchanges of good practices in member states that continue to have difficulties in using the financial instruments of the european union.
the reporting agent for the imco opinion. − i would like to start by congratulating mrs parvanova on her work on this report. i am glad to see that the opinion of the committee on the internal market has been taken into account and i would like to thank the rapporteur for this on behalf of my colleagues in this committee. ensuring access to innovative medicines requires legal certainty and predictability for manufacturers of medicines, and this means, first and foremost, transparency in the decision-making on pricing or inclusion in the health insurance system. there are deadlines to be met in decision-making, which have not always been met. the prohibition of re-evaluating aspects under assessment for marketing authorisation and the introduction of fairly competitive but flexible deadlines for both companies and national authorities is an important step forward. we are all going through a difficult period of budget consolidation, but delaying pricing and inclusion decisions cannot be a legitimate strategy, but an irresponsible and counterproductive one for european patients. i therefore hope that we will be able to reach an agreement with the council that will eliminate the problems we are currently facing and that will make this directive work properly in all the countries of the european union and, in addition, that european patients will benefit from innovative medicines in a timely manner, in a stable and transparent framework.
health is undoubtedly a major priority for european citizens and any medicinal product authorised in the european union should be covered by public insurance schemes and be available to patients in all eu member states. and yet, romanians, for example, suffer the most from all the patients in the european union countries, because the lists of compensated medicines have not been updated for over 1 600 days, the longest period in a member state. there's a lot to talk about, but i want to focus on two very important elements: 1. considers that patient organisations should have the right to request that the process of including a medicinal product in health insurance schemes be initiated and to be informed of the progress of this process; 2.the european commission should be involved in monitoring and detecting delays in patients' access to medicines and treatment. close cooperation between the commission, national authorities and stakeholders is essential in this respect.
over the past 20 years, conditions in the pharmaceutical market have changed fundamentally. as a result of increased research and innovation, the production of medicines has evolved considerably. the steady increase in pharmaceutical expenditure over the last few decades has encouraged member states to develop far more complex and innovative methods of price regulation and reimbursement. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to update the existing legislative framework. this will help to reduce barriers to intra-community trade in medicinal products and ensure the smoother functioning of the single market. the new provisions should encourage the development of new pharmaceutical products and increase transparency in decision-making. the elimination of distortions will bring major benefits to pharmaceutical companies and the ultimate aim should be to facilitate access to treatment and reasonable prices for all union citizens.
without industry, we would not play such an important role in the global balance of economic forces. the evolution of the industrial sector must be accompanied by efforts to create jobs, focusing on the young workforce. to this end, i believe we need to link community employment strategies with the future needs of european industry, develop programmes to provide young people with high-quality technological education, promote their opportunities to specialise and work in other member states and, not least, support the development of entrepreneurship among young people through access to european funds and business advice in all member states.
we are at a time when lack of confidence, market uncertainty and funding problems are hindering member states from making sufficient progress in their economic recovery. in this context, i support the commission's proposal to lay the foundations for a new industrial revolution, which will restore europe's attractiveness as a place of production and a market for its products. the renewed industrial strategy must be based on new production methods, innovative materials and intelligent communication systems. romania's industry also suffered a decline. i therefore believe that the basis for its return is industrial sectors such as mining and gas. the start of gold mining in rosia montana could be a good opportunity to create jobs and avoid retraining. and at the same time, shale gas could provide us with jobs and energy independence.
the cvm report for romania is inadvertent and untrue, harming the country and us, its citizens. this mechanism has become an instrument of pressure which has moved away from its technical objective, being 80% political and only 20% (inaudible speech due to technical problems). the cvm has been continuously extended both quantitatively, by adding new conditionalities, and qualitatively, by raising the initial standards, without a legal basis in the constituent treaties or the accession treaty. by proposing to restrict the freedom of the press in romania, the commission is seriously violating european values and is going far beyond its powers under the treaty. the press must be free to do investigative journalism. given the ambiguous regulation of the cvm, the major influence of the political factor, but also the fact that the initially established period of three years from the moment of accession has expired, i ask the european commission to complete the procedure for monitoring romania through the cvm.
i also want to refer to the country report on justice this evening, because this report, under the cooperation and verification mechanism, although it objectively acknowledges some progress made by romania, contains some subjective and unrealistic assessments, unacceptable from my point of view. the authors of the report should know that the csm is an institution independent of political or governmental action, that the ani does not give irrevocable decisions, irrevocable sentences, but only administrative decisions that can be confirmed or refuted by the judiciary, that the immunity of parliamentarians in romania is much less protective than in many other countries of the european union. there are no three ministers accused of corruption, not even two, as the european commission has come back, none of them is accused of corruption, there are other charges that need to be confirmed by the judiciary. the most unacceptable fact is that it calls into question the freedom of the press in romania. the press must remain free to comment on any aspect of romanian society. i ask the european commission to correct all these unrealistic aspects and to provide a clear timetable for closing the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania.
the european commission's evaluation report on the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania contains a recommendation for the adoption of measures to censor the press and limit its freedom of expression on justice-related issues. this recommendation undermines the credibility of the report and calls into question the principles underlying the european commission's assessment. for us, freedom of the press is similar to democracy and is one of the great post-communist gains. the commission's reports in the field of justice have moved far from a strictly technical approach and have become increasingly political. the legal cooperation mechanism is being transformed into a tool of political control and attempts are being made to link the cvm with other files, such as schengen and european funds. it is deeply unfair to romania and bulgaria and this disadvantage must end, either by establishing an instrument valid for all member states or by abolishing the cvm.
i would like to underline the importance attached in this report to the aquaculture sector, which is essential for food security, economic growth and employment in rural areas. for more than a decade, however, european aquaculture has been in a state of stagnation. while world production is increasing by 5-6% per year, union production has remained the same, with aquaculture products currently accounting for 25% of european consumption. freshwater aquaculture has a high potential in european countries and we have an obligation to consider it a priority. freshwater aquaculture can help to economically recover a significant number of rural areas, and domestic production can contribute to the development of the processing sector, also an important sector from an economic point of view. last but not least, it should be borne in mind that today more than 90% of aquaculture enterprises in the european union are small and medium-sized enterprises and provide some 80 000 jobs. we owe these enterprises our full support. unfortunately, my state currently produces only a small fraction of the available aquaculture products, about 1%. i hope that the new measures introduced in the fisheries policy will be able to give a boost to this sector, which we intend to develop.
mr president, owing to their size and geographical situation, smaller aegean islands face obstacles to supply and trade. they also suffer from inadequate, ageing and expensive transport networks. article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union draws attention to the importance of strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union. this provision is relevant in the case of the smaller aegean islands. local production on those islands should receive adequate funding. therefore i share the view that increased budget appropriations for the special supply arrangements should not be made at their expense. in addition, specific support should be devoted to the maintenance and promotion of traditional agricultural products.
i voted in favour of the report because the large number of islands in the aegean sea is a challenge to the territorial cohesion of the union. their position within the archipelago is an obstacle to supply and trade, leading to very high transport costs, especially for producers. measures should be introduced to improve the transport of processed agricultural products to the aegean islands. the financing of their supply of basic products is not sufficient as long as funds are not also provided for the subsequent transport of the resulting products. a clear strategy is also needed to address the existing structural problems of agriculture in the area. on the other hand, farms must not affect the natural and cultural resources of the islands, given that tourism is the main source of income in the region.
in writing. − these outermost regions are generally small territories with difficult climatic conditions. because of this, there are difficulties for the agricultural development of these areas. the objective of this regulation is to mitigate the additional costs associated with supply and agricultural activity. certain agricultural products, which are considered essential for human or animal consumption or for the manufacture of other agricultural products, are included in a specific supply scheme. under this scheme, limited quantities of the products concerned may be imported by the eu with aid covering part of the additional costs caused by the outermost region or by third countries without import duties being applied.
in writing. − due to their geographical location at the extreme periphery, the small aegean islands have great problems in terms of trade with the rest of europe. this is having a negative impact on local production, holding back the development potential of the islands. if we also consider that transport networks are outdated and impose extremely high supply costs on local producers, the islands seem to be doomed either to 'economic death' or to an even greater dependence on tourism revenues, which, in times of global economic recession, decline. i therefore consider the adoption of this report to be essential in ensuring the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union.
in writing. − for producers in the aegean islands, geographical characteristics are obstacles both to the supply of basic products and to trade. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, as an appropriate strategy is needed to develop the existing transport networks in the area, to finance agricultural activities and to protect the environment, and to improve cooperation with local actors in order to implement the existing measures effectively.
in writing. − i believe that the specific supply arrangements should in no way prejudice local production and development and that the commission should contribute to the development of support programmes through the exchange of good practices for monitoring the implementation of programmes in such islands.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for specific measures for agriculture in favour of the smaller aegean islands. on the one hand, we have the union that functions on the principle of harmonious and balanced development among the member states and on the other, we have the aegean islands which suffer from isolation and special, unfavourable climatic conditions (which make farming particularly difficult). in this context, in order to avoid great regional disparities within the eu, it is important that we support isolated and remote areas such as the aegean islands.
mr president, in 2011, as part of the posei programmes, the european union devoted more than eur 650 million in specific supply arrangements and in measures to promote local agricultural production benefits for these regions. without discussing the amounts and the cost benefit of this, i would like to refer to some additional measures that are needed. for instance, border controls on imports from third countries should be introduced in the outermost regions to prevent unfair competition from local products. one must make sure that products from third countries comply with the same veterinary and phytosanitary requirements as those implemented in the outermost regions. i also share the view that the present regulation should refer directly to article 349 of the treaty, which is the only article devoted to the outermost regions. this is essential to ensuring that those regions continue to receive proper treatment.
i voted in favour of the report because the outermost regions face specific problems, particularly in the context of the global economic crisis. high unemployment and insufficient financing of agricultural activities are jeopardising their development and affecting living standards in these areas. for many of the inhabitants of these regions, agriculture is their only means of livelihood. as a result of the increase in imports of certain agricultural products from third countries, i believe that the union should compensate for the losses that producers in the outermost regions may suffer. customs authorities must also ensure that agricultural products from third countries comply with the same phytosanitary requirements as those imposed on producers in the outermost regions. i also support the rapporteur's position on the reintroduction of the reference to article 349 of the treaty.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it is essential to support europe's outermost regions in the current economic context. both the economic crisis and their geographical position have led to a drastic decline in industrial profitability and agricultural productivity, and to an increase in unemployment in these regions. to stimulate economic development in these areas, the european union needs to allocate additional funds, without which local production could no longer be profitable and could not cope with the competitiveness of imported products.
in writing. − i consider that in order to guarantee the supply of essential agricultural products to the outermost regions and to alleviate the additional costs imposed by the outermost nature of these regions, it is necessary to establish a specific supply regime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the programmes of specific options for remoteness and insularity (posei) are adapted to current needs, realities and challenges. the nine regions or islands benefiting from posei will thus benefit from greater flexibility and clarity in the management of agricultural programmes, better responding to the real needs of local markets and communities and ensuring better profitability for local agricultural production. it is also important that this legislative amendment will align the regulation governing these programmes with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty, in particular with regard to the new delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on agriculture in the outermost regions of the european union, considering that the whole of the union must be supported and that these regions are facing particular challenges, particularly because of their remoteness from the continent. i would also like to draw attention to the need to ensure appropriate support for agriculture in other types of peripheral regions of the eu, such as the danube delta in romania, which is at the eastern extremity of the union but is difficult to access and sparsely populated. we must recognize the special nature of these areas and allow appropriate support measures to be put in place.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the improvements for the outermost regions in the eu, as specific measures are needed for the isolated regions, especially now in a time of crisis. a supply guarantee and the preservation and development of sustainable agriculture are some of the important factors needed for the regions in question to have viable farming conditions and be able to compete on the same level as the rest of the eu.
in my view, the clearest definition of european smes is that they think efficiently and act practically on a small scale. and the numbers prove their effectiveness: they employ over 87 million people, representing 67% of the private sector workforce. the obstacles related to the diversity of european markets, bureaucracy and limited access to finance are the main difficulties facing the development of smes. their growth potential depends on access to finance and, therefore, on the adaptation of the banking system to their needs. smes always develop financial relationships with local banks. improving access to local credit by reducing the rigidity of financial lending contributes significantly to increasing the competitiveness of enterprises. i support the development of innovation partnerships, which include enterprises alongside smart parks, to realise patents and innovations in a bottom-up approach. here are some of the reasons why i voted for this report.
i voted in favour of the report because smes are the backbone of the european economy, providing the vast majority of jobs. they are currently experiencing difficulties in accessing finance as a result of the economic crisis. since there is no one-size-fits-all solution, their diversity must be taken into account. banks are of major importance in the context of sme investments, both at european and local level. improving dialogue between businesses and creditors and finding alternative financing solutions is also important. member states should facilitate access to finance for smes using transparent procedures. only in this way could economic competitiveness be strengthened and unemployment be tackled.
in writing. − despite the current difficult environment in which they operate, smes have retained their role as the backbone of the european economy. the 20.7 million smes represent over 98% of all european enterprises and employ over 87 million people. due to the crisis, financial institutions have become more cautious in lending to smes. also, new and strict rules on financial institutions and capital requirements, implemented by both national and eu authorities, make it even more difficult for smes to access finance. i would like to mention that smes are often part of a distribution chain and are most affected by the delays in payments and the payment periods currently used; for these reasons, i welcome the commission's decision to present proposals and appropriate solutions.
in writing. − it is well known that smes are vital to the european single market; it is therefore very important that they are supported by both national and european policies. i welcome the fact that this dossier focuses on facilitating access to credit, which is so necessary for the development of smes, and at the same time on reducing bureaucratic procedures. smes are the ones that will bring us the much-needed economic growth. that is why we need to ensure that entrepreneurs have access to the capital they need to start a business or to expand it.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises are very important for the european union. they are the backbone of the european economy and important drivers of economic growth in the european union. smes contribute to employment in regions with low employment and to employment growth, meet the current needs of the population living in those areas and have a positive effect on the development of local communities. sme development is therefore a way of reducing disparities at country level. access to finance is essential to finance business investment, to ensure that businesses realise their growth potential and to facilitate the creation of new businesses, in particular micro and social enterprises, which allows for the generation of growth and jobs for the future. access to finance must also be facilitated for young people and women entrepreneurs who are setting up their own businesses and for entrepreneurs who are or employ people from disadvantaged social backgrounds.
in writing. − i support the resolution on improving access to finance for smes to stimulate growth and job creation. an improved action plan is needed, as well as closer cooperation between businesses and the banking sector on financing. i also think that it is necessary to diversify the sources of income.
in writing. − i believe that the training of people who want to develop small and medium-sized enterprises is essential and that it would be beneficial to involve more women in this type of activity. unlocking the potential of women for the development of the entrepreneurial sector could lead to the creation of new jobs and it is essential to remove all obstacles faced by women in the labour market. on the other hand, it is essential that small entrepreneurs who have struggled and gone bankrupt are oriented towards new activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on improving access to finance for smes, as i believe that this sector of the economy has an essential contribution to the return to growth and the exit from the crisis, and that measures are therefore needed at european level to stimulate it. small and medium-sized enterprises account for 98% of all enterprises at european level and employ more than two thirds of all employees at eu level. in addition, smes created 85% of all new jobs between 2002 and 2010. on the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises have also been hit hardest by the economic crisis. the european union's role is therefore to support them, in particular by offering flexible financing options tailored to their needs, which may take the form of european funds, grants or loans.
in writing. − it is a well-known fact that european union’s economic success and cohesion are linked with sustainable growth and job creation. smes are part of this equation. their status differs from country to country, but it this time of crisis, there are smes that have problems accessing finance. this report is the reaction of the european parliament to the commission’s action plan to improve access to finance for smes. the report calls on the commission to support alternative funding mechanisms and not only to focus on venture capital. creditors should set clear and specific criteria on applying for finance in a transparent manner, in order to give a fair chance to those who need to access loans. i endorsed this report, but i have to mention that in simplifying the bureaucratic and administrative environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, there has to be an adequate protection for employees and their rights have to be protected and safeguarded.
in writing. − it is welcome that the situation in mali is being closely monitored by the unhrc and i appreciate the leadership shown by the african states who brought this issue to the attention of the unhrc. the involvement of neighbouring and north african states in efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime is still needed. the romanian authorities are also considering the possibility of romanian participation in the future eu mission in mali. i look forward to the report of the high commissioner on the human rights situation in mali, particularly in the north of the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on improving access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) because they are the backbone of the eu economy, key drivers of long-term economic growth and provide over 67% of jobs in europe. given that smes represent over 98% of european enterprises, their participation in structural fund-funded projects is a real survival solution, especially now, in the context of the economic crisis. the role of the european institutions, but especially that of national governments, is crucial in supporting them with economic measures that allow them access to liquidity and investment. and in this regard, i welcome the eu action plan on improving access to finance for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with the europe 2020 priorities, to enable them to overcome the difficulties they face during the current economic and financial crisis. finally, i would like to stress the need to ensure appropriate advice and assistance schemes to support smes at local and regional level in developing policies to promote entrepreneurship and improve the situation of smes throughout their life cycle.
in writing. − the report rightly recalls that the main source of sme financing in europe is the banking sector. difficult access to credit is, in many member states, the biggest obstacle to the efficient use of eu funds for modernising or setting up small businesses, due to the inability to provide co-financing. this is particularly serious in the field of agriculture. i also note another important idea in the report, that of the guidance of bankrupt entrepreneurs, and here i stress the missed opportunity to include agriculture among the areas covered by the european globalisation adjustment fund.
i would like to inform the commission that i have had several meetings with representatives of national parliaments on the subject of the european semester and i can assure you that the european semester has become a reality for national parliaments, a process which thus gains more in terms of its democratic character. i would like to stress, however, that at the level of the european institutions we have a great deal of responsibility for what we do in the european semester. we must also think about these prospects for economic growth and the recommendations that will follow, because we are aware that we are increasingly involved in this process of coordinating the economic and budgetary policies of the member states. i would like to stress here an aspect which is less present in our concerns - since we are going so far down the recommendations at member state level, it is good to listen very much to what the representatives of certain industries are saying. i give the example of the european metal industry. it's good to know what's happening with this industry - the signals coming in are very worrying. there are thousands and thousands of jobs at stake, and they say very clearly: if you cannot get economic powers outside the european union to adopt the same standards, for example, on the environment, then we will be out of this competition much faster than we have to be.
with a continuously declining gross domestic product, the economic situation in the european union remained fragile in 2012 and tends to threaten the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. that is why we need, more than ever, structural reforms at national and community level to strengthen the european union's ability to compete globally and generate sustainable growth. i therefore believe that in the third european semester we must focus our efforts on: improving the business environment by reducing administrative burdens; promoting new sources of capital, including business-to-business lending and facilitating access to risk capital; creating innovative support schemes to make loans cheaper and more accessible to smes; and, last but not least, reducing the tax burden on companies and wage income to stimulate the growth of new jobs in the european union.
in writing. i welcome the ep recommendation on improving the business environment to support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and i believe that the annual policy guidance to be adopted by the european council should pursue this objective: access to finance for smes should be adopted by member states as a top priority in their national growth plans and easier access for smes to european funds should be ensured. member states should therefore promote and support smes through access to finance and development programmes, as smes are the cornerstone of employment and job creation, with significant potential to combat unemployment. i welcome the fact that unused structural funds from the 2007-2013 eu financial period have been redistributed to promote smes and tackle the high rate of youth unemployment. it is important that member states use part of the structural funds allocations to provide loan guarantees to smes, thus generating growth in economic activity in all regions and sectors, ensuring employment opportunities and overcoming the lack of access to credit that is currently an obstacle to the development of smes.
cites is a very important tool in the fight against illegal trade in endangered animals and plants. unfortunately, the union is one of the main destinations for poaching products. i therefore believe that at the forthcoming conference the union must take the strongest possible position against all forms of illegal trade in such plants or animals. there are still many species that are being poached all over the world. the most famous case is that of african elephants, who continue to be hunted for ivory. although most countries have laws against such acts, enforcement is lacking, and in most cases items from poaching are unfortunately destined for collectors.
in writing. climate change is undeniably real and represents the greatest environmental threat facing humanity. the doha climate change conference did not lead to a new agreement on the fight against climate change. the negotiations have led to the extension of the kyoto agreement and an agreement on financial aid for the countries of the south, but these results are not a solution to slowing down global warming. the next conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 19) in warsaw in november-december 2013 is of particular importance as an intermediate preparatory stage for the next major international meeting to be held in 2015 in paris, the aim of which is to conclude an international agreement on greenhouse gas reductions involving all countries, including the biggest polluters: china and the united states. such an agreement is imperative to slow global warming. member states must reach a clear, firm and united position so that the european union can play a stronger and more influential role in international climate change negotiations.
in writing. despite strict international controls on the ivory trade, the african elephant population continues to be threatened by the flourishing illegal trade. recently, the amount of ivory seized has increased dramatically. there is evidence that enforcement has not improved considerably, especially in countries with a large ivory market, where elephant slaughter and illegal trade are common. we must not allow trade to take place under these conditions. i welcome the withdrawal of the proposal made to the cites conference this year for a one-off sale of ivory from tanzania. the impact of similar sales in the past to china and japan has not yet been assessed, although it is suspected to have been extremely harmful, with legal sales helping to mask illegal operations. although i referred in my message to the theme of elephants and ivory, the problem goes beyond one species or another. it's affecting biodiversity as a whole, and all the benefits that it provides us, from water purification and carbon sequestration to soil fertility. african countries must be supported in their fight to halt the decimation of endangered species and to promote the sustainable use of their increasingly limited natural resources.
we are in a difficult period in terms of public debt and investment prospects. however, there is a continuous effort to consolidate national budgets. i therefore support the report's proposals and believe that the european parliament and all the union institutions should show solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states. institutions must continue to demonstrate a high degree of accountability and control. they also support the continuation of structural reforms to ensure that the institutions function more effectively. at european level, the main objective is to have flexible but effective institutions. but in some member states, such as romania, the number of government institutions has increased since the left-wing coalition took power, which is not in the interest of the taxpayer.
i would also like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr baldassarre, on his report. in recent years, corporate social responsibility has become a topic of increasing attention in the private sector, in public authorities and in society. i believe that if properly applied and practised, csr can make a major contribution to restoring lost trust in the union. i support the introduction of the new definition proposed by the commission. csr should be mainly driven by enterprises on the basis of their own capabilities, supported by public authorities. in romania, as in most emerging economies, csr is still in its infancy. however, many of the leading companies in this field understand the value of a robust csr strategy.
42% of consumers believe that a company should be partly or fully responsible for solving the social problems of the community in which it operates, and 49% of consumers take environmental aspects into account when buying a product. businesses need to take these aspects into account and behave responsibly towards people, the planet and profits, but also address social measures such as vocational training, reconciling family and professional life and appropriate working conditions. i believe that csr is and must remain an important element of strategic development, but also a priority in the growth process of companies, regardless of their size and type of activity. on the other hand, standards and models of social responsibility could be a solution to the problems faced by smes.
in writing. european businesses are currently facing tough challenges due to the crisis, accelerating globalisation and climate change. responding to these challenges requires focusing efforts on increasing corporate social responsibility in terms of their impact on society. through social responsibility, companies seek to build sustainable relationships with employees and customers to develop long-term business models. the social partnership created implies rights and obligations for both parties. companies focus on respecting the collective rights of employees and contribute to the inclusion of vulnerable groups by insisting on the training and specialisation of workers. social responsibility also has a bottom-up approach. employees and consumers defend the interests of companies, combat discrimination and undeclared work and are responsible for their working environment. i would like to highlight an example that is becoming increasingly common in eu companies, whereby workers give up hours of work to save their colleagues from being laid off. at present, smes are underrepresented in public works. the social responsibility of public authorities, however, is to support these enterprises, respecting the principles of transparency, non-discrimination and equal treatment.
motorised transport is one of the main sources of noise pollution. the number of cardiovascular diseases, cognitive disorders, sleep disturbances can increase as a result of prolonged exposure to high noise levels. i therefore consider this report to be an important step forward in tackling the effects of vehicle noise on human health and the environment. my country is interested in the proposed changes, as dacia has become a major european car manufacturer in recent years. i also believe that noise reduction should not be done only at the level of motor vehicles. the quality of the road surface also strongly influences the noise emissions generated by the rolling of vehicle tyres. consumers need clear and transparent information on vehicle noise emissions to make informed purchases.
it is clear that the member states have the right to determine their contribution to the union budget, but it is equally clear that the same member states have the obligation to respect the provisions of the lisbon treaty and the commitments they have made in relation to european policies. member states who think they will gain by reducing the national contribution are wrong. the european budget is 95% investment budget. its decline will reduce investment and, by implication, jobs across europe, and the effects will be felt in all member states. the negative consequences will outweigh the relatively positive consequences of the decrease in the national contribution. a budget smaller than the present one would be a step backwards, a failure of the union. there will be other effects besides the direct financial ones; it will be a win for the eurosceptics, for the populists, it will constitute a negative signal for the financial markets and it will cause uncertainties in the chancelleries of third countries. parliament has to vote on an opinion on the mff. the outcome of this vote is not certain at this time. moreover, over 60 legislative proposals are under way under the codecision procedure, where parliament has equal powers with the council. we need to get agreement in these negotiations, otherwise we will be in a situation where we are applying in 2014 policies that were established in 2006. the european council must think before it decides, because a disagreement on the budget leads us to apply, in 2014 and in the years to come, the budgetary ceiling of 2013, which is much better. mr. president, mr. farage was referring to the movement of labor, the romanians and the bulgarians. i would ask him to stop making such populist judgments and to turn more to the internal situation of great britain. it is not the free movement of labour and membership of the union that has created the situation in britain today. (the speaker agreed to answer a question after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card. it is clear that a multiannual budget is much better than an annual budget, but it depends on the value of the budget, because if we have a multiannual budget smaller than the current financial framework, i do not think it is in the union's interest. the rule in the basic treaty says that if there is no agreement on the budget, the 2013 budget ceiling, which is higher than the one currently proposed by the council, will apply in 2014 and in subsequent years. so it might be an advantage for the union if, at the same time, horizontal policies are also approved.
member of the commission. − mr president, colleagues, thank you for this debate, which was predominantly a true and realistic picture of the european budget. but i could also hear things that were not true, wrong and misleading. my job is to tell the difference. therefore, those who say that the european budget is small are right. this is 1% of the national wealth, less than 2% of public expenditure in the european union. but those who say – and i hear it constantly – that we are cutting our national budgets at home while the european budget is growing are wrong. more than 20 national budgets are growing, and we are now expected to finance a larger europe with the accession of croatia – and more duties – with less money. that is true. those who say that the european budget is about investment are right. you cannot find investment money for growth and jobs in the national and regional budgets; these are normally the first victim of savings. but the stability of the mff in the european union has nothing to do with the soviet planning i remember. this was about planning how many shoes or toys you were to produce annually; the european mff is about stability of investment over many years for multiannual projects, which is of great value in this time of crisis. those who say that one euro spent at european level could bring more added value than separate national expenditures are right. you can find the proof in international consortia in research for global competitiveness, in the trans-european networks in energy and transportation, and in humanitarian aid worldwide. those who say that we need to avoid an excessive gap between commitments and payments are right. some difference is normal, but in order to avoid excessive difference we need to go into the new mff without an excessive overhang legacy from this one. therefore, we need the european parliament to find missing money for the 2013 budget. as for what i see is a real witch-hunt in respect of the less than 6% of the european budget which is set aside for administration, i will leave that story to commissioner šefčovič.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, allow me to have the last word before the european council on heading 5 of the mff, on administration. despite the fact that it represents less than 6% of the budget, it is the subject of a huge discussion – i would even say a media campaign – in europe. therefore, i believe that it is absolutely necessary to underline the need for a top professional, independent and geographically balanced eu administration. the eu has to deliver on more and more demanding tasks, and in all 23 languages. this alone represents 15% of administrative costs. we have to deliver on a new task given to us under the eu semester. we will have to issue opinions on the national budgets. in the trade talks we discussed this morning we will have to face the best and finest negotiators from all over the world. this is without mentioning the european court of justice, where our lawyers have to face the best global law firms in the world, and in the overwhelming majority of cases – 90% – they win. fines imposed by the european court of justice have brought more than eur 30 billion into the eu budget over the last few years. member states, law firms and companies send their best people to brussels, strasbourg or luxembourg to cover eu matters. they also need to be of high quality. if you ask them how much they are paid you will not usually get an answer. the president of the european parliament tried to get one. he received no answer, and i do not think he will ever get one. but i can assure you that they are paid at a much different level than they are paid back home in their capitals. but i think this is right, because they are being paid for their quality, language skills and hard work. therefore, i would repeat here the plea i made to european ministers on monday: let us not get carried away; let us not break the eu machine. we have already offered to make almost eur 10 billion in cumulative savings since 2004. our civil servants working for the eu institutions will work longer hours and will retire later than most civil servants in the member states, and we are already proposing to cut 2500 jobs. this is the equivalent of the entire administrative staff of the european court of justice, so these are very significant savings. we know that more is expected, but i would also like to underline that if we overdo this we will create a situation where projects for regional development will be delayed or not be processed with the required quality. this would create a situation where translation will be scarce, thus leading to an even longer backlog of unsolved cases at the european court of justice, creating very serious legal uncertainty. so i would just like to say that, through marginal savings, we can do structural damage where it will be the citizens who will feel it first.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank the members of the european parliament for a very insightful, very fruitful and very helpful debate from my point of view. it is fair to say that we will engage in very intensive and very important negotiations at the european council tomorrow and on friday. different member states have different perspectives. president van rompuy has the unenviable task of trying to bring those different perspectives together to achieve a compromise. i certainly agree with, and i think i can reflect, the desire and the determination of the european parliament to ensure that this compromise is fair, balanced and ultimately ensures that we have a budget which is fit for purpose, so that we can continue to pursue the policies which are so essential to tackle the challenges that we face at eu level. i would like to particularly note and thank the representatives of the committee on budgets, rapporteurs, members of the contact group, particularly mr lamassoure, mr böge, mr kalfin, ms jensen and mr dehaene for the engagement that we have seen over the last 18 months or more, from the polish presidency to the danish presidency to the cyprus presidency and now into the irish presidency. that engagement has been invaluable and has helped to inform the discussions at the general affairs council and at the european council in november. a number of points have been made, particularly by the members of parliament. i appreciate that there are some divergent views here in the chamber, but there a number of common issues that are also of enormous concern to the council. the first of those is youth unemployment. it is clear that all members of the european parliament want to tackle the scourge of youth unemployment and indeed the general challenge of unemployment across the european union. we are all agreed that the budget must be oriented towards trying to tackle that challenge. it is important to note that as well as the european parliament, the council and the commission are working in that direction. we, as the irish presidency, intend to secure an agreement on the youth guarantee at the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco) at the end of february. that is a proposal which comes from the commission and which has been endorsed by the european parliament. president van rompuy announced earlier this week his intention to ensure that several billions of euros within the multiannual financial framework will be oriented towards tackling youth unemployment. so there is a coherence and a consistency in our approach, and i am confident that this will come to bear in the negotiations at the european council tomorrow. a number of meps mentioned solidarity in the debate. i note that mr swoboda and a number of other contributors highlighted the need for solidarity at european-union level. i fully agree with that. there is also a need for responsibility. that responsibility does not just lie with governments or the council; it lies with all of the institutions and individual elected representatives at eu level. it is important that we all assume that responsibility to try to ensure that we arrive at a deal that is acceptable and, most importantly, that serves the interests of our citizens. on the question of solidarity, certain remarks were made about immigration. i just want to say that from our experience in my country in ireland, and indeed across the eu, immigration and free movement across eu member states has hugely enriched the european union. the presence of citizens from all eu member states working, interacting and getting to know each other across borders is extremely important, and something that we should treasure and continue to embrace. i would like to make a point on the negotiations at the european council this week. it is important to say – and a number of members have pointed to this, mr lamassoure, mr kalfin, mr daul and others – that it is not a question of a deal being agreed at european council level on thursday and friday and that becoming a fait accompli or a ‘take it or leave it’ scenario. that is not the case. we have had good consultation with the european parliament to date, but we will have even better and much deeper engagement and negotiation with the european parliament over the weeks and months ahead. if an agreement is reached at the european council on thursday and friday, the commission will then come forward with its proposal and with its proposed interinstitutional agreement. then we will engage in intensive negotiations with the european parliament. so it is the beginning, rather than the end, of the process. we, as the irish presidency, are very much committed to that course of action. there are a number of red-line issues and priorities which have been identified by meps and parliament, and the contact group have made these very consistently and very coherently to members of the council over recent months: flexibility, the need for a mid-term review and the question of own resources. these priorities have been heard and are being heard, and i am confident that they will be reflected in the outcome of our negotiations over the next two days. members of this parliament have identified a range of priorities, from smes, to research and development, to the common agricultural policy, to cohesion policy, and different members lay emphasis on different aspects of those. all eu policies are important. it is essential that they are adequately funded, but there is no doubt that we have a challenge. we have a challenge to ensure, with reduced resources, that we have better, more effective and more efficient spending than we have ever seen before. that will be the challenge: to ensure that all of the policies are oriented towards growth and that we are investing smartly and wisely. that does not mean that one aspect – whether it is horizon 2020 or the common agricultural policy – should trump another. they all have their place, they are all important and we are committed as the european union to ensuring that they can all function appropriately, adequately and for the benefit of our citizens. to sum up i would like to say – and repeat the point – that this is the beginning of the process. i hope and believe, for the credibility of the european union, the credibility of the council and the credibility of the institutions, that we must arrive at a deal this week; that the eu heads of state and government must achieve agreement amongst themselves for a position in the council so that we can take forward our negotiations with the european parliament. over the next weeks and months we can ensure that we put in place a multiannual financial framework that will benefit our citizens, that will help us in the huge challenge of tackling unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, and ensuring the growth and development of the european union for the benefit of our citizens over the weeks and months and years ahead.
in writing. the most important topic discussed at the european council summit on 7-8 february is the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. there is great hope for the completion of the eu budget debate and reaching a consensus is a priority for each member state. another priority for romania at the summit is the republic of moldova. my country will call for the negotiations on the eu-moldova association agreement to be completed as soon as possible so that it can be signed by november 2013, when the eastern partnership summit in vilnius takes place. moreover, during his visit to chisinau last year, jose manuel barroso, president of the european commission, underlined that the eu would continue to support the reform process in the republic of moldova, while expressing his confidence that the signing of the association agreement would be achieved in 2013. in this context, i too would like to underline the importance of the conclusion of the agreement, taking into account the progress achieved so far by the republic of moldova in aligning its national legislation with that of the european union. the eu has also been working to improve the conditions for the entry of citizens of the union into the eu. the objective of completing the visa liberalisation action plan this year therefore remains a priority.
in writing. the difficulty of reaching a consensus on the european budget sends a negative signal not only to international markets but also to european citizens. the european parliament, and president barroso, have repeatedly called for the credibility of the european institutions to be given to citizens who are increasingly alienated from the european project. reducing funding for education, infrastructure and telecommunications, as well as for cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, would cut a vital part of european programmes at a time of crisis, when economic growth should be fostered and social solidarity encouraged. the fact that there is talk of cutting funding for programmes like erasmus or food aid for people in need indicates the lack of a european vision centred on the citizen. last but not least, a european budget that reflects only the interests of large donors would amplify imbalances between them and member states, such as romania, which need solidarity to bridge the gaps.
in writing. with regard to the european council of 7-8 february, i would like to make a few comments on two of the items on the agenda: 1. the european union's relations with its main international trading partners and 2. the european union's external relations, with particular reference to developments in the southern neighbourhood over the past two years, and the situation in syria and mali. as regards the eu's external trade relations, i consider it extremely important to advance the trade negotiations relating to the eastern partnership, in particular with the republic of moldova. in the run-up to the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013, i believe that this european council should send a positive signal to the republic of moldova, given the progress made by this state in finalising the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with the eu. as regards mali, efforts to combat terrorism and organised crime must be continued, involving neighbouring and north african states. for information, the romanian authorities are currently considering the possibility of romanian participation in the future eu mission in mali.
in writing. the european council of 7-8 february 2013 will focus on reaching an agreement on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. parliament encourages an agreement but will only support a multiannual financial framework that will strengthen the european institutions and enable the union's policies to be implemented. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 should provide the necessary funding for cohesion policy, for agricultural policy, for increasing competitiveness through investment in research and innovation, and in trans-european transport, energy and communications networks. i ask the european council to maintain the commission's proposed budget for the food programme for the most deprived, for horizon 2020 and for the connecting europe facility. i also believe that the future multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the common agricultural policy should ensure not only a reduction in the gaps between direct subsidies allocated to farmers in all member states, but even their equalisation. finally, the multiannual financial framework should not allow for a budget deficit for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. after the optimism of 2010, when economic analysts and european leaders predicted a quick end to the crisis, today we have one certainty: the crisis, with all its aspects economic, jobs, european competitiveness will last. the solution to the crisis and its multiple challenges must be found, but we are on the wrong track! the hidden, opaque way in which the european council is trying to build a compromise between national egos, between the duplicity of european leaders who declare their support for the union, then appeal at home to protectionism and anti-european discourse, will not bring a real solution. we have the answer to our citizens' expectations: the eu 2020 strategy and in particular the mff 2014-2020. the new mff must ensure solid financial support for common policies, investment, job creation and equal opportunities for us, the citizens of the new member states, with the old member states in the area of cohesion and regional development policy and the common agricultural policy. the new mff must be adopted in a genuine community spirit, not just in formal compliance with the community method. this week's european council must take account of the ep's opinion before succumbing to the temptation of making hidden compromises against the interests of every eu citizen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it is about the eu's responsibility towards its trading partners. the accession of my country and bulgaria in 2007 led to the customs enlargement of the eu. as a member of the wto, the eu is bound by its rules. in this situation, an adjustment is needed to compensate for the increase in the consolidated customs duties and the related significant losses. the adjustment benefits all wto member countries, regardless of whether the newly acceding countries have lower or higher customs tariffs than the eu. it is the right of the united states to reinstate its previous trade rights following the expansion of the customs union. i therefore welcome the agreement with the us, which demonstrates the eu's commitment to a multilateral rules-based trading regime and the attempt to facilitate trade between the contracting parties.
in writing. − in 2007, the european union extended its customs union with two more countries, bulgaria and romania. in these circumstances, the eu was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto member states, with negotiating rights over the schedules of commitments of any future acceding member, with a view to agreeing on a mutually advantageous adjustment to compensate for the increased consolidated duties and the significant losses associated with them. if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime leads to an increase in customs duties above the level practiced by bulgaria and romania, then these compensations are necessary.
in writing. − the ideal of a customs union or free trade area is to facilitate trade between the territories that make up it, not to raise barriers. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union also meant the launch of tariff renegotiations with the countries that are part of the world trade organization. the biggest winners were wto members and free trade, because at the time of accession both romania and bulgaria had higher customs duties than the eu. in the opposite case, where romania and bulgaria had to increase their duties and tariffs to align with the eu's external tariff policy, thus breaching their wto commitments, it was the eu that had to make up the difference. this commitment has once again shown the european institutions' sympathy for multilateral trade.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the eu has expanded its customs union. the eu was obliged, in accordance with wto rules, to enter into negotiations with wto member states with negotiating rights on the schedules of commitments of any acceding member with a view to agreeing on a mutually advantageous adjustment to compensate for the increase in the consolidated duties and the significant losses associated with it. eu enlargement is a positive factor for wto members. when the countries that joined the wto had higher tariffs than the eu, the wto members were the ones who gained. otherwise, when acceding countries had lower customs duties than the eu and were forced to increase their customs duties, the eu compensates for the difference. the eu-us compensation agreement covers products such as poultry and pork as well as food preparations. the agreement on the new tariff quota for these agricultural products will be implemented by means of an implementing regulation to be adopted by the commission. the us is entitled to re-establish its previous trade rights following their slight erosion due to the expansion of the eu customs union with the accession of romania and bulgaria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the parliament should give its consent to the signing of this agreement. the compensatory adjustment for the us is a natural consequence of romania and bulgaria’s accession to the ue. the agreement adjusts our trade relations to this post-accession reality and follows the procedural rules of the wto.
in writing. − i support the decision to conclude the eu-us clearing agreement as it will have a positive influence and boost trade growth in the medium and long term. the enlargement of the european union, with the accession of romania and bulgaria, made the gatt 1994 agreement require a revision, so that there is a unified policy of all eu countries towards the united states. romania and bulgaria will have the same status as the other eu countries in relation to trade with the us. i believe that this step will lead to a rapid increase in trade between eu member countries, especially romania and bulgaria, and the united states. in practice, this is a matter of restoring market access, of reorganizing the trade partnership between the us and the eu, which is necessary by the enlargement of the customs union of the european community, an enlargement due to the accession of romania and bulgaria. a new agreement is a clear demonstration of the eu's commitment to the multilateral rules-based trading regime with all partner countries, with the wto at its core.
in writing. − the increase in unemployment in the member states of the european union is the most serious problem we are facing today. the high level of unemployment, especially among young people, threatens not only the solidarity that underpins the functioning of european societies, but also the future of the union. the aim of achieving a sustainable, sustainable and inclusive development model by 2020 is becoming illusory if the coordination of employment policies at european level is not to be stepped up. i support the adoption of the commission's report precisely because this coordination of economic policies is contrary to the provisions of the european treaties, which clearly emphasize that these, along with those relating to the promotion of employment, are not matters of national interest but matters which are at the heart of the european project. the adoption of this document is also a concrete step towards achieving the union's long-term objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i consider it important to maintain the guidelines for the coordination of national employment policies in the member states. i think that the europe 2020 strategy must be further supported. this is the only way to achieve the objectives of increasing labour market participation, improving the education system and combating social exclusion. these priorities must remain valid in order to encourage europe's potential for smart and sustainable growth. and member states should focus more on implementing the main guidelines and achieving the objectives mentioned in line with the council recommendations. particular attention should be paid to the european social fund and its effectiveness in projects targeting people with disabilities and youth unemployment.
in writing. − according to the treaty on the functioning of the eu, the promotion of employment is a matter of common concern to the member states and must be coordinated within the council. to cope with the competition from the new emerging economies, i believe that europe must create the jobs needed by a dynamic, knowledge-based society. this requires investment in education and science, as well as in employment policies, so that the eu can keep pace with change and overcome the economic crisis.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides that member states and the union are to develop a coordinated employment strategy and promote a trained, skilled and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are able to react rapidly to economic developments. the employment guidelines should form the basis of any country-specific recommendations that the council may address to member states. they should form the basis for the joint employment report sent annually by the council and the european commission to the european council. member states should make every effort to address the following priority areas in their national reform programmes: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment; developing a skilled workforce that meets labour market needs and promoting quality employment and lifelong learning; improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary education; promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 need to remain stable until 2014 so that efforts can focus on their implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's report approving the commission decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. under the new provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, member states are obliged to coordinate their employment policies, which is particularly necessary in the context of the economic and financial crisis and also taking into account that the europe 2020 strategy sets ambitious employment targets. member states must continue to harmonise their labour policies and ensure that the free movement of labour within the eu is guaranteed. it is also important that all member states continue to fully liberalise the labour market for workers in romania and bulgaria who face labour market restrictions in nine of the 27 eu member states.
in writing. − the interdependence between economic policies at community level and the labour policies of the treaty must be reflected in the national reform programmes of the member states. and so, by 2020, we can achieve high levels of global competitiveness and productivity with a trained, skilled and adaptable workforce. there is certainly more to be done in terms of employment policies. i could only mention a recent example, that of the united kingdom, where campaigns against the entry of romanian employees into the labour market have reached alarming levels, given that, according to the accession treaty, the restrictions imposed on romania and bulgaria expire at the end of this year. beyond the economic value of labour, let us not forget that we are talking about the fate of citizens, whom we can help to achieve financial independence and thus reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion.
madam president, transparency opens the way to integrity and accountability, and we need greater transparency in the decision-making process for the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products. the pricing and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products fall within the member states’ exclusive competence. however, we need minimum procedural requirements in order to ensure the proper functioning of the single market, as well as legal certainty and transparency for national authorities. the names and declarations of interests of the experts involved in the decision-making process should be disclosed – they should be published and made available. moreover, the public should be aware of and have access to all the documents and information relating to a given decision. greater transparency is the key to assessing the level of integrity and independence of decisions taken and to reinforcing citizens’ trust and confidence in their national health authorities.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states are responsible for organising their own health systems and for providing health and healthcare services. within this framework, each member state may adopt measures to manage the consumption of medicinal products, regulate their prices or lay down the conditions for their public financing. thus, a medicinal product authorised under eu law on the basis of its quality, safety and efficacy profile may be subject to additional regulatory requirements at member state level before it is placed on the market or released to patients under the public health insurance system. in view of the above, i consider that the existence of minimum procedural requirements should guarantee legal certainty and transparency for the competent national authorities and promote the production of medicinal products and the entry of generic medicinal products onto the market. research and development of new medicines should be encouraged to facilitate access to affordable treatments for all patients in europe.
in writing. − the primary beneficiary of the health care system must be and remains the patient. the european union must promote a transparent, predictable and coherent health system policy that guarantees all european patients real-time, effective and quality access to both original and generic medicines. the complexity and diversity of national measures relating to the pricing of medicinal products has increased considerably since 1989, when directive 89/105/eec on pharmaceutical transparency was adopted. the european commission has proposed fundamental provisions to update the current legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of member states and to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation, both by avoiding delays in price-setting and reimbursement decisions and by removing obstacles to trade in pharmaceutical products. we need faster decisions on pricing and reimbursement to maintain the dynamism of the pharmaceutical market and to provide citizens with better access to medicines. facilitating faster market entry of generic medicines is also of particular importance for promoting a coherent and more transparent health system and will lead to substantial savings for both public health budgets and patients.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it is vital to support the increase of cost-effectiveness in pharmaceuticals. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the single market, to facilitate patients' access to reimbursements under public health insurance schemes and to encourage trade in these pharmaceuticals, we need a transparent legal framework and a transparent and harmonised system of price regulation.
in writing. − i believe that innovation and research in health bring significant benefits to patients and have positive consequences on the effectiveness and sustainability of health systems.
in writing. − i supported the initiative to improve eu citizens’ access to more affordable medicines. delays in pricing and reimbursements have in some cases reached more than 700 days, which is not to the benefit of eu citizens, especially vulnerable groups coping with chronic diseases. it is essential that member states provide for more transparency in their decisions regarding generic medicines.
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be much more realistic and balanced, a step forward in fisheries policies, but three things led me to do so: the introduction of the principle of consultation of regional interest groups, which i believe gives the professional communities the opportunity to express their views on fishing situations and to strike a balance between the need to protect the environment and their own survival interests; the decisions on the restoration of fish stocks, the blocking of 10 or 20% of fishing waters for three years, which i consider to be an opportunity for restoring stocks and for a sustainable economy, and last but not least the decision to look beyond the mediterranean and other seas, and the big bang regulation, by trying to find a solution to the cooperation that is taking place in non-member countries. as the black sea is still a problem, the professional community needs to be protected against poaching by third countries, and the possibility of regional or bilateral or multilateral agreements is useful.
i voted in favour of the report because the current common fisheries policy has not achieved its objectives. i have advocated setting targets to restore stocks above levels that can generate maximum sustainable production. i also voted for a ban on discarding catches, because i think it is a waste. in the black sea there is a specific problem, as only romania and bulgaria are subject to union rules on fishing quotas. therefore, there is a need for greater decentralisation of decision-making and involvement of the other riparian states. on the other hand, i opposed the creation of an advisory council for the markets, which would make the decision-making process difficult. i also voted against the establishment of structures for inland fishing, as decisions in this area must still be taken by the member states.
in writing. − fisheries are a natural, renewable, mobile and common property that is part of our common heritage. the common fisheries policy was introduced by the treaty of rome. initially, this policy was closely linked to agricultural policy, but over time it became increasingly independent of it. since its reform in 2002, the common fisheries policy has had as its main objective to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and to guarantee stable incomes and jobs for fishermen. i welcome the commission's proposal to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture activities provide long-term sustainable environmental conditions and contribute to the availability of food supplies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it brings some new proposals in terms of the common fisheries policies. firstly, i am pleased that it has been agreed to include the professional groups in a dialogue on fishing situations, environmental protection and fish stocks. secondly, the ban on discarding is a positive thing because it reduces fish waste, which the commission estimates is 23% of all fish caught. another plus of this report is the policies that aim to restore fish stocks and to prioritise sustainable economics in this industry, a good example being the blocking of certain areas of fishing waters for a period of time to provide the necessary duration for the fish fauna of those waters to recover.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because a sustainable policy for the fisheries sector is needed. changes are needed to combat overfishing, to alleviate the plight of fishermen and to reduce the financial difficulties currently facing the fisheries sector. a common long-term policy is essential to preserve the marine environment, both for ourselves and for future generations.
in writing. − i believe that the common fisheries policy must contribute to supplying the union market with highly nutritious food, reducing dependence on the internal market in food, contributing directly or indirectly to job creation and, implicitly, to economic development in coastal areas.
in writing. - i voted against the report. i believe that parliament must support a fair reform, with the conservation of fish stocks as its priority. the correct way to ensure this priority would have been to adopt the solution proposed by amendment no 297, which respects the principle of the landing obligation but also establishes measures to enable the fisheries sector to adapt to this obligation. at the same time, i welcome the adoption of the amendments concerning the establishment of a black sea council, which i have called for on numerous occasions. i also welcome the inclusion in this text of important provisions on aquaculture, a disadvantaged sector in the eu that needs to be encouraged.
in writing. − i welcome this report from the fisheries committee and the efforts of colleagues to strengthen the commission’s proposal on the reform of the common fisheries policy. the amendments adopted in committee would bring the cfp into line with the 2020 objectives of the marine framework strategy directive because of the legal requirement for member states to adopt measures to rebuild fish stocks to healthy levels by the end of this decade. this would represent a significant step on the road to repairing our damaged seas, replenishing fish stocks, and protecting fishing industries in the long-term. this is just one of a series of amendments which would bring improvements, along with those banning discards and ensuring the establishment of marine protected areas. i would like to thank those colleagues who have worked hard to improve the commission’s proposal, and i wish them every success in the negotiations with council.
in writing. − i totally support a strong cfp reform, therefore a more sustainable fisheries policy. the preservation of biodiversity, and not least of endangered species, is of great importance. the current fisheries policy has led to a big number of wasted fish, and now parliament had a great opportunity to vote for a long-term supply of sustainable seafood in europe, as well as for a more secure future for our fishermen.
madam president, noise pollution is an annoyance with adverse health effects that has plagued people for a long time. a leading cause of this form of pollution is transportation. the noise from planes, motor vehicles and trains is a disturbance to citizens especially at night. just because noise pollution is unlike other types of pollution and cannot be seen, tasted or smelt does not mean that it deserves less of our attention. i voted for regulating certain types of motor vehicle because action must be taken to diminish this growing problem. i truly believe that the transportation industries – and i mean the big industries – must invest money here in responding to citizens’ wishes and to their need to live in a healthy environment.
in writing. − the european authorities have noted in recent years the increasingly significant impact of noise pollution on the health of european citizens. the fact that no less than 20% of european citizens, especially in urban areas, experience health problems as a result of exposure to high levels of noise pollution is a signal that both national and european authorities need to take into account. in this context, i support the proposal to amend the regulations in this area in the interests of protecting public health, both as regards the approval procedure for motor vehicles and as regards the reduction of noise levels. i believe that any european policy in this area must strike a balance between protecting the health and lifestyle of european citizens and supporting the automotive industry, which remains one of the pillars of european development and competitiveness. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − noise pollution is the bane of big cities, where it affects the environment not only during working hours but also during leisure time. in general we can talk about an extension of noise pollution to the global level of the environment. although car engines are quieter than in the past, noise on the streets and especially on the highways is continually increasing not only because of increased traffic but also because of increased vehicle speed. currently, on some modern highways the noise level has exceeded 80 db during peak traffic periods. in view of the above, i welcome the commission's proposal to introduce a new test method for measuring the sound level of motor vehicles and new noise limit values for the different categories of light, medium and heavy vehicles.
in writing. - noise pollution has a major impact on the health and, at the same time, on the well-being of european citizens; i believe it is our duty to do everything we can to reduce the effects of this type of pollution as much as possible. cars are responsible for a large proportion of noise pollution; therefore, measures must be taken to reduce the noise they emit. this must be done without putting too much pressure on the car industry, which is already in an economic impasse on the european market.
in writing. − sound pollution is one of the biggest problems facing europeans today, and it must be tackled with all responsibility, given the clear negative effects it has on public health and the environment. in this context, the regulation of traffic noise as the main source of noise pollution is a key element of a responsible policy to protect citizens and the environment. romania is one of the noisiest european countries. over 60% of the urban population is affected by noise due to heavy road traffic, and bucharest, the country's capital, has the highest percentage of residents exposed to noise, 85%, at noise levels above the sound pollution standards accepted by the world health organization. this is the situation in many other european cities. if we also take into account that road traffic is accompanied by air pollution, then the risk factors are even more important. it is therefore important that the european union has an ambitious and realistic strategy on vehicle noise, one which carefully strikes a sustainable balance between a high level of protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the competitiveness of the automotive industry on the other.
in writing. − i consider that for some heavy vehicles the suggested noise reduction levels are not feasible even if the latest technologies in the field were applied. i think new materials need to be developed to improve the sound insulation level.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's initiative to update the limit value for noise emissions from motor vehicles in view of the increase in traffic in europe, especially in large urban centres. but i think that in the future we should also consider proper maintenance of the streets which can lead to a reduction of more than 5 db (a). the use of special asphalt could also reduce road traffic noise by up to 10 db (a). significant reduction would also be achieved by decongesting traffic with by- roads, preferential lanes, and intelligent transportation. we must have an integrated approach to this sector, because this is how we can achieve results that are meaningful and visible to the citizens.
in writing. - i do not ignore the importance of this report and i think we should be concerned about the comfort of citizens, especially those in large cities or near high-traffic arteries. but i voted against all the amendments which set unrealistic targets for the car industry. i therefore voted against amendments nos 51, 61, 67 and 68. the european automotive industry already has, in all respects, particularly high standards. unrealistic standards will make automobile production more expensive, which means higher prices for car buyers.
in writing. − today i voted to improve the restrictions on sound levels from motor vehicles. we know that noise pollution is a serious public health issue which disproportionately affects those living in urban areas and near busy roads. we must therefore encourage the car industry to make quieter engines in order to help achieve lower levels of noise pollution, but without imposing unreasonable costs in what are already difficult economic circumstances, and bearing in mind that traffic noise depends on a number of factors, such as engine noise, tyres, and road surface. paradoxically, very quiet cars, namely electric cars travelling at very low speeds, can present a particular risk for children, cyclists and blind people. that is why i also voted in favour of mandatory electric-vehicle warning sounds, so that very quiet engines can still be heard.
in writing. − i welcome the awareness-raising and action on health issues related to environmental noise. however, i voted against amendment 51 and 68 because of the large-scale impact on the automobile industry in a time of crisis. i consider that amendment 51 would have set unrealistic objectives for the automobile industry. regarding amendment 68, not only do tyres already have to comply with the general safety regulation that already sets minimum requirements for noise, but also, testing conditions for tyres proposed in this am would have created a discrepancy throughout the regulation in discussion.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis has affected european countries to a great extent and, in many circumstances, has called into question the viability or even the completion of several european projects vital to the union. managing migration flows and the refugee problem is one of the levels at which the implementation of national and european policies is facing increasing difficulties, against the background of the application of austerity policies or the reduction of public expenditure. in these circumstances, i support increasing the european union co-financing rate under the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european integration fund for nationals. the adoption of the decision is also justified by the fact that it does not impose additional pressure on the eu budget. the measure is also justified not only by the need for solidarity between the member states but also by the very special position which the european union takes in its foreign policy, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the effective management of migration flows is of great importance to the eu. the economic crisis has had a different impact on each member state. thus, while most countries have taken comprehensive measures to reduce debt levels and budget deficits, others have had to resort to eu financial support mechanisms. it is essential that member states facing significant economic challenges can continue to assume the burden of managing migration flows. i therefore support the proposal to change the co-financing rate for the countries concerned. i would like to stress that it is in the interest of all member states that the commitments made on migration should not suffer as a result of economic difficulties in some member states.
in writing. − public finances in several countries have been severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. although most member states have had to take comprehensive measures to reduce debt levels and budget deficits, some countries have been so affected that they have resorted to eu financial support mechanisms. as a consequence of the severe economic difficulties, these member states have encountered difficulties in meeting the co-financing requirements associated with eu funding. these difficulties are also evident with regard to funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. i believe that a functional management of migration flows is of great importance for the european union as a whole, because the failure of a member state to ensure the effective management of migration flows will not only affect that country but also other member states.
in writing. - i voted for a twenty percentage point increase in the co-financing rate for the migration and asylum funds. many member states are facing serious difficulties with their financial stability, but this should not affect the management of migration flows. i regret, however, that in some member states the use of funds is abusive and creates long-term problems. i therefore ask the commission to implement rigorous management and control systems, followed by permanent and appropriate checks and monitoring.
in writing. − as more and more european countries are facing the adverse effects of the international economic and financial crisis, the european union's border protection systems are being significantly affected by austerity policies or by increasing the efficiency of public spending. increasing the share of european union co-financing in specific projects to develop border surveillance is one of the measures that can ensure the functionality of this sector without necessarily entailing additional pressures on the european budget. while the imperatives of economic recovery must guide member states' policies at this time, the major importance of maintaining a flexible and effective border protection system should not be overlooked. many of the social or security problems facing member states can be exacerbated by inadequate management of migration flows in the context of a global, and not just a european, crisis. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i consider it necessary to amend the co-financing rates of the external borders fund for member states facing serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability. the economic crisis has had a severe impact on public finances in several member states. they have had to resort to eu financial support mechanisms. i would stress the particular importance of effective monitoring and evaluation systems for the use of resources. it is also important to mention the solidarity of member states facing major fiscal challenges. romania, as part of a macro-financial assistance agreement, will benefit from the increased co-financing.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has had a severe impact on public finances in several member states. i welcome and support the proposals to increase the co-financing rate for the member states receiving financial support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that good management of borders and migration flows is essential for the european union. the additional union co-financing rate of the european border and coast guard fund up to 70% and 95% respectively is intended for those member states experiencing significant difficulties in terms of public finances and national budgets. this will allow member states to continue to comply with community standards and acquis in the management of borders and migration flows, while respecting the rights of migrants. this increase in the co-financing rate will however remain temporary and limited and will not apply in the next multiannual financial year 2014-2020.
in writing. − in a period marked by continuing economic and financial uncertainties, one of the main consequences has been the significant reduction in member states' budgets. however, managing migration flows is a particularly important issue affecting the union as a whole and that is why we need to ensure that member states facing serious funding difficulties are able to cope with future challenges. as i am very aware of the situation in these member states, i strongly supported the increase in co-financing rates when it came to the cohesion and structural funds and now, in the same way, i believe that these countries should be supported through the four funds established as part of the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. only then can we ensure that these funds achieve their intended objectives and that we overcome all the important problems in the field of migration, asylum and external borders.
in writing. - i voted for a twenty percentage point increase in the co-financing rate for the migration and asylum funds. many member states are facing serious difficulties with their financial stability, but this should not affect the management of migration flows. i regret, however, that in some member states the use of funds is abusive and creates long-term problems. i therefore ask the commission to implement rigorous management and control systems, followed by permanent and appropriate checks and monitoring.
in writing. − for the conservation and good management of fisheries resources, technical conservation measures have been adopted applicable, inter alia, to the size of nets, the authorised size of fish that can be caught and restrictions on catches in certain areas, periods or by certain types of vessels. however, i believe that the european union will have to accept the challenge in the coming years to establish and maintain a sustained and economically viable balance between conservation and exploitation. this is fundamental to the survival of the fishing industry and at the same time to the maintenance of jobs and the future of the sector as a whole.
in writing. − fisheries resources must be conserved to ensure a sustainable marine environment and to maintain fish stocks. mr gallagher's report sets out some technical measures which will create a long-term management plan for the fishing industry. a good example is the regulation of the size of the fishing nets in the black sea, which has not been covered by any legislation so far and which will lead to the protection of young fish and the development of marine fauna in these waters. at the same time, the interinstitutional dispute must stop, otherwise it will lead to a delay in the adoption of the necessary policies, which can have quite serious consequences for the whole industry.
in writing. − i support this project because a regionalised approach to fisheries management is needed. technical conservation measures must be respected by all fishermen to protect the ecosystem and to allow the development of a sustainable activity.
in writing. − i believe that in order to ensure the conservation and proper management of marine biological resources in the black sea, the minimum landing size and the minimum mesh size for the cod fishery should be established.
in writing. - welcomes the adoption, by final vote, of the gallagher report, after several months of delay, in the absence of agreement with the council on the powers. the report adopted two important amendments to the black sea fisheries regulation, which is a real legislative vacuum. the measures approved regulate the size of the fishing nets used and thus make a significant contribution to the protection of juvenile fish in the waters of this sea.
i voted for this report, of course, because it is a resolution of the european parliament, as usual, on a united nations meeting on women. it seems to be a slightly formal one, and while we're all convinced that this phenomenon with its social costs, with its serious economic costs, needs to be eradicated, the steps we've taken as a society to eradicate it are often formal and very often insignificant. two things stand out to me in this report: that it calls for greater financial support from member states to fund un women programmes and that the european union is motivated to support that global implementation plan for the eradication of violence against women by the united nations in 2015. although there is relevant legislation, there are no levers to induce states to exert pressure to actually implement the appropriate legislation.
madam president, nine out of ten victims of intimate partner violence are women and around 25% of all women have experienced physical violence at least once. the union’s efforts to reduce domestic violence through legislative measures have failed. poor implementation of criminal laws and poor imposition of sanctions are major reasons for impunity. this is why a solution could be for member states to recognise domestic violence as a form of gender-based violence in their criminal codes and implement protection orders and impose sanctions. non-criminal measures, such as shelters and real and long-term protection for victims, including putting distance between those aggressing and their victims, could be more efficient than any punishment. also we need to focus and think that the objective is protecting the victims and reducing domestic violence; i therefore insist on, and lobby for, these non-criminal measures.
in writing. − violence against women is a worldwide phenomenon. according to the world health organization, between 15 and 71 percent of women between the ages of 15 and 49 have been beaten, forced to have sex, or abused by their partners in their lifetime. despite the adoption of several strategies to protect women, the problem of violence against women remains acute every day one in five women in the 47 council of europe countries is subjected to violence. in addition, violence against women also has a negative impact on the european economy. the cost of violence against women in europe is estimated at eur 34 billion per year, or eur 555 for each european. as regards the above elements, i believe that an eu strategy to combat violence against women is needed, including a directive setting out a set of minimum standards for the member states of the european union.
in writing. − violence against women and girls has serious consequences for the physical and mental health of the victims and for social development in general. the main causes of this phenomenon are poverty, traditions, religious values, political instability, armed conflict, the media. the consequences of large-scale violence extend beyond immediate bodily injury or material loss. there are often serious and long-lasting health effects, as well as social and psychological consequences that affect victims of violence, their children and their families. despite the evolution of society, the increase in the level of education, we see not only the maintenance of traditional forms (beating, insulting, rape), but also the revival of special forms of violence: blocking women's access to income, genital mutilation, slavery, forced labour, prostitution. the eu must therefore give a comprehensive definition of violence against women, identify the factors that contribute to its proliferation and continue to prevent and control this social scourge at international level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 57th session of the unfccc: eliminating and preventing all forms of violence against women and girls, to highlight the need for the eu to engage in coordinated efforts to reduce the multiple forms of violence against women and girls. physical, sexual, emotional or financial abuse, harassment, female genital mutilation, forced marriage and honour killings are extremely serious and systematic violations of human dignity that continue in all states of the world and for which there is no justification. i strongly condemn all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls and call for a rethinking of political priorities in favour of respect for women's rights and also for support for ngos, coordination and monitoring of existing and newly created strategies and programmes.
in writing. − violence against women and young girls is the most widespread form of human rights violation. studies indicate that the main causes are economic and power disparities between the sexes, customs, traditions, religious values, political instability, and armed conflict. although the european union has been and is a promoter of gender equality, the eu 2020 strategy contains few indicators that mention gender equality as a priority at european level. starting this year, the eradication and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls will be one of the priority themes of the 57th session of the united nations commission on the status of women. i also consider it of major importance that development aid be linked to a continuous fight against all forms of violence against women in developing countries.
we all talk about the need for dialogue when it comes to peaceful resolution of conflicts outside the eu. we are asking the same thing today when we are debating the kurdish question in turkey. but are we doing everything we can to have a serious debate in europe about the needs of national minorities? is it credible in the eyes of the european union's international partners to ask them to engage in dialogue on the minority issue, while in our own territory the commission does not feel competent to put the issue of minority violations, the needs of indigenous national minorities, on the agenda? i believe that the problems of national minorities require a european solution and that the european institutions should therefore also address the issue in the context of the european year of citizenship. all eu citizens have the same rights, not only when they settle in another member state but also when they want to live out their eu citizenship in their home country. if we make progress in this area, perhaps we will be taken seriously when we stress the need for dialogue on similar international issues. today, in my country, my national minorities are discriminated against, they are not allowed to use their symbols. there are countries in the european union where minorities are not only denied the right to speak their own language, but are also deprived of their citizenship.
that's a two-card answer. thank you very much for asking. there's a long line, and i'm just going to name a few. there are still measures in place in the eu countries that have been hitting communities since the second world war, fascist laws, so to speak. i'm not a decretum. citizens are being deprived, not that one of our mp colleagues mentioned that kurds can use their mother tongue in court. please, not in romania. bureaucratic measures, or in the eastern half of romania, intimidate the child to dare to do the three hours of optional mother tongue education per week. there are many, many examples. the solution would be to avoid fearing that there would be a national framework law for the protection of national minorities, such as the roma, and to take the copenhagen criteria into account afterwards, not just before accession.
i too believe that the situation of the kurdish minority can be further improved by the turkish authorities, in line with the recommendations of the commission's enlargement report. i welcome the recent adoption by the turkish parliament of a law which gives kurdish defendants the opportunity to defend themselves in court in their mother tongue. similar measures could be taken with regard to mother tongue education and other aspects of civil life. the restoration of trust between the two sides will require the pkk to cease its activities in turkey and to respect its commitments. a cessation of hostilities would be a historic achievement and a good basis for discussion for the future. the negotiations could materialize through a consensus on changing the constitution.
the adoption of the strategic framework and the action plan on human rights and democracy provide the basis for the union's action on global human rights, but our efforts are not enough. i continue to be concerned about the use of child soldiers in some countries, especially in africa. estimates range from tens of thousands to over 250,000 children involved in military operations by governments or military groups in africa. shocking cases have even been reported where children were forced to kill family members to demonstrate their loyalty to the military leader. i believe that the issue of child soldiers should be tackled more firmly by the union when establishing economic or trade relations with states suspected of such practices.
the doha conference marked an important step in the adoption of a global framework on climate change. this framework is a major objective that will define a new way of sustainable development globally. with the kyoto protocol failing to reduce emissions globally, it is clear that we need a stronger instrument. in addition to renewable energy sources, i believe shale gas could also help reduce carbon emissions. i'll give the example of the united states, where shale gas exploitation has reduced carbon emissions, causing power companies to replace coal-fired plants with gas-fired ones. that's why my country is pursuing diversification of energy supply sources, in order to ensure energy independence and reduce emissions.
in writing. when it comes to climate change, member states must maintain a common position and a long-term perspective in warsaw, as they did at the last unfccc conference in doha at the end of last year. the eu must take a global leadership role in combating the effects of climate change and continue to push for an ambitious climate change agenda. europe must lead by example and honour its commitments to reduce co2 emissions and reduce global temperatures. that is why the eu must continue to invest in alternative energy. at the same time, the eu needs to play an active and decisive role in the new climate policies set for the post-2020 period, and this can be facilitated in particular by the fact that this year and in 2015 the unfccc conferences will be held in poland and france respectively.
in order to complete the area of freedom, security and justice, common rules should be established for the training and education of those who work in the courts. furthermore, persons practising law in the member states should have a minimum set of knowledge of european law. including european law among the compulsory subjects studied in law schools may be a solution. that is why i too believe that the pilot project proposed by the european parliament should be implemented as soon as possible. this could lead to coordination between the training provided by the judicial training schools in the member states. in the context of judicial reform in romania, magistrates in my country could also benefit from such an exchange of experience. this could further improve the functioning of the courts and reduce the length of judicial proceedings.
i would first like to welcome the commission's proposal for a rapid reaction mechanism to improve tax collection and taxation at european level. i also congratulate my fellow rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs on their work on this report, which is so important in the fight against vat fraud. the current vat legislation clearly needs to be improved so that member states can have mechanisms to enable them to deal quickly with particularly serious fraud, in particular the carousel fraud, as my colleagues have said, or the fraud resulting from the use of shell companies. unfortunately, the lack of firm action in this direction causes annual losses to national budgets of several billion euros. moreover, not only member states suffer, but also european businesses, which face unfair competition in certain sectors contaminated by fraud. the fact that we do not currently have accurate data on the extent of tax fraud in the european union speaks for itself of the difficulties in identifying and combating this worrying phenomenon. immediate solutions to vat fraud are absolutely necessary, especially in the context of the fiscal difficulties we face and the dramatic impact of austerity measures on european citizens. i therefore support the european executive's proposal to set up a rapid reaction mechanism so that member states wishing to introduce special measures such as reverse taxation can do so without first requesting a derogation at european level. such a derogation now has to be considered by the european commission and voted on unanimously by the council, which puts national action on hold for several months. however, while the benefits of such a mechanism are undeniable, i would like to draw attention to the possible additional costs for businesses resulting from the decision to apply this measure. the internal reverse charge mechanism must remain exceptional in order to avoid any harm to taxpayers. i also share the rapporteur's view that the commission's proposal must be accompanied by a long-term strategy in this area, which encourages structural changes to vat systems. i therefore welcome the proposal for an own-initiative report and wholeheartedly support it.
fraud in the vat system, especially cross-border fraud, is very easy to detect, given that the european single market allows many products to circulate without being taxed. tax and vat fraud also cause significant distortions of the internal market. they constitute obstacles to fair competition and cause significant losses in public services at national level, generating billions of euros of losses annually at union level. companies that comply with the law are also affected. the member states must therefore cooperate as closely as possible to counter this phenomenon and it is beneficial to launch the rapid reaction mechanism. i support the rapporteur's proposal that the launch of this mechanism should be followed by a long-term strategy to combat fraud, which should also allow for the harmonisation of the vat systems in the member states, without which evasionists will always find opportunities for fraud.
in writing. both the eu budget and national budgets lose several billion euros annually due to vat fraud. in some serious cases, losses occur in a very short time, due to the speed with which fraud mechanisms are currently developing. at this point, member states may, within one month, implement a reverse charge mechanism that makes the recipient, not the supplier of goods and services, liable for vat. this measure became necessary because fraudsters became faster and more ingenious in developing ways to defraud the public purse. this rapid reaction mechanism thus ensures that the system is better equipped to combat vat fraud. in view of the above, i consider that the most effective solution to combat vat fraud is reverse taxation.
on behalf of the s&d group. in a difficult social context, with unemployment at alarming levels and a large proportion of young people having difficulty finding a job, the european union urgently needs economic growth. the european investment bank can play an important role in this context, enabling the union to overcome the effects of drastic austerity measures and to enter the path of economic recovery. key areas in which the eib can operate include innovation, education, health, research, transport networks, agriculture and renewable energy sources. that is why i, like my colleagues, would like to welcome the decision of the member states to approve the bank's capital increase of eur 10 billion, which will allow it to lend up to eur 60 billion between 2013 and 2015. however, it is estimated that the investment generated by this increase will not represent more than 0.5% of the eu's gdp annually. therefore, i consider that an additional increase in the capital of the institution would be welcome. i also welcome the start of the pilot phase of project bonds and believe that their issuance will be an important step in relaunching the financing of major european infrastructure, transport, energy and information technology projects. in this process of designating the projects to be financed, the bank must, however, pay particular attention to supporting the least developed regions, thus contributing to reducing imbalances and strengthening economic and social cohesion. at the same time, special attention must be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the backbone of the european union's economy. unfortunately, many of the difficulties they face in trying to obtain funding contribute to rising unemployment and the union is missing out on a valuable contribution to competitiveness and innovation. initiatives dedicated to sme financing, such as jeremie, are important, but i would also like to mention the problems that the intermediation of funds can cause. the european investment bank believes it has a duty to ensure that money reaches medium-sized businesses and does not get stuck in banks acting as intermediaries. the eib is wholly owned by the european union. citizens, non-governmental organisations and the other european institutions must therefore be able to analyse the bank's activities in full. its transparency policy is an important step in this direction, but further efforts are needed, in particular with regard to the timely publication of the detailed description of the projects under way. when we talk about transparency, we also think about the bank's obligation to help combat fraud and tax evasion. the european commission has recently launched a set of criteria to identify third countries that do not meet minimum standards of good governance and taxation, and the eib must comply with them. at the same time, and i am addressing this to you, commissioner, i believe that the european executive can do more to enable this type of jurisdiction to be identified quickly, in this case, i suggest you complete a list of tax havens. finally, i would like to draw attention to another obligation which derives from the statute of the european investment bank: its duty to contribute to the strict observance of international law and the principle of the un charter. therefore, the projects the eib and the actors involved choose from and choose to participate in must also respect international law. finally, i would like to congratulate all the other rapporteurs on their work and their excellent cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, on 4 february the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) adopted a resolution rejecting two of the delegated acts adopted by the commission relating to technical standards supplementing regulation eu no 648/2012 (emir) on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade depositories. having carefully examined the reasons for such rejection the commission, in the spirit of compromise, is prepared to make sure that when it adopts its decisions on mandatory clearing for specific classes of otc derivatives, the obligation for non-financial firms to clear will be phased in over an appropriate period of time. the commission also fully shares with parliament its attachment to the principle of legal certainty. therefore the commission would like to make the following statement:‘the commission decided that the regulatory technical standards in question should be strictly based on the draft technical standards prepared by esma. our responsibility is to take all measures to ensure that financial risks are appropriately supervised and mitigated and thus to protect our economy. ‘ the commission understands some of parliament’s concerns. the commission is prepared to make sure that, when it adopts its decisions on mandatory clearing for specific classes of otc derivatives, the obligation for non-financial firms to clear will be phased-in over an appropriate period of time. such a phased-in period could be similar to the one proposed in the technical standard for bank guarantees. this would allow non-financial firms sufficient time to fully adapt to the new landscape. at the same time it preserves a sound and solid financial regulatory approach. taking into account the provisions of emir, the commission is also willing to clarify the application of the confirmation deadline standards referred to in article 11(1)(a) of emir in the future. ‘the development of technical standards is terra nova for all institutions. the commission is sure that the process will be developed and refined over time. the commission stands ready to work together with parliament to ensure an open dialogue and transparency about our planning for forthcoming technical standards and ensure that parliament has enough time, in the framework of the relevant inter-institutional agreement, to assess them. in particular, as regards the procedures relating to the preparation of delegated acts and with a view to developing good practices in that matter, the commission will promote a clear understanding on working relations including for instance meetings and planning, and regular exchanges of views between the commission and econ on regulatory standards, taking full account of existing inter-institutional agreements on the timing of sending legislative acts to parliament.’
recent statistics show that by 2060, the number of elderly people will have increased by a whopping 79 percent. and yet, in the european union, at the moment, only the city of fredericia in denmark is showing social innovation and promoting the ability to live independently among older people. to implement such successful models in as many member states as possible, i believe that: european funds should be allocated to develop a european network on age-friendly environments; a european convention should be organised to give local, regional and national authorities interested in the concept of the third-age economy a better chance; and, last but not least, the objectives of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations should be integrated into all relevant funding instruments of the european union, including the structural funds.
mr president, in 2010 the number of union citizens aged 65 and over was around 87 million. by 2060 it is expected to reach 148 million. public spending on health already accounts for 7.8 % of gdp in the eu and by 2060 this percentage is expected to reach over 10 % of gdp due to ageing. we adopted the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing, and this could be a good intervention at eu level with a view to improving the quality of life of elderly citizens and reducing pressure on the health system. the commission must now strictly and constantly monitor and assess the implementation of this partnership in each of the member states.
i voted in favour of the report because active ageing is of interest to all member states and the union has the resources to provide innovative responses to this. i welcome the initiative to put into practice the strategic plan for implementing the european partnership for the creation of better living conditions. it is important that the younger generations are also involved in promoting a whole-life perspective. romania, like other european countries, is going through a significant process of population ageing. by 2050, the age pyramid is expected to have a considerably reduced base due to the accelerated growth in the number of pensioners. a step forward to redress this situation was the launch in 2012 of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations in romania.
in writing. − the report highlights the significant potential of the european innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing, both socially and economically. the partnership aims to promote and stimulate innovative solutions that give older people the opportunity to improve their health and quality of life, that meet their real needs and, at the same time, that provide them with the opportunity for social interaction. i believe that promoting a healthy lifestyle throughout life is a key component in developing the mechanisms and strategies needed to achieve the goal of increasing healthy life expectancy. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union's population is in the midst of an ageing process. this demographic change is the inevitable consequence of the considerable progress made by our society. demographic ageing poses a number of challenges for the labour market, for health systems, and for the quality of life after retirement. active ageing means growing old in good health, playing an active role in society and achieving professional fulfilment, but also being independent in daily life and engaging in civic activities. regardless of our age, we can play an important role in society and enjoy a good standard of living, even in old age. the challenge is to make the most of the enormous potential that older people have. i believe that any initiative to identify the solutions needed to build a better society for both the elderly and the young is welcome.
in writing. − the important role of local and regional actors in modernising, improving and rationalising the delivery of health and social care services to create models for better outcomes for people in the labour market should be emphasised. older people need an income, a home, access to all types of appropriate health, social and cultural services, and strong social networks to enhance their quality of life. older people also need opportunities to continue to contribute to the labour market without age-discriminatory restrictions. it is necessary to create the right conditions for people to work longer hours and be more productive, both by increasing flexibility in the labour market by introducing work opportunities through record keeping of working hours and part-time work, and by making available modern forms of employment contracts, including temporary contracts. the adequacy of pensions should be strengthened by tackling discrimination between women and men in the labour market, in particular by reducing career and pay gaps.
in writing. − europe needs a strategy to enable towns of all sizes and in all areas to adapt to the demographic and spatial changes the eu is facing due to an ageing population and to adapt them to the requirements of older people. on the other hand, thorough assessments of the actual needs of the ageing population and regular monitoring of the needs and requirements (current and future) of older people, as well as close collaboration with regional and local policy makers, are needed to meet these requirements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it contains essential measures in the development of a strategic plan for the european partnership for active ageing. in a time of demographic transition, with the population of urban areas aging rapidly, there is an urgent need to re-adapt these areas to the new types of needs and capacities of their populations and to create a society for all ages by 2020. the report supports the european commission's initiative to increase the involvement of older people in policy-making and decision-making for better local and regional governance. this participatory approach allows the assessment and monitoring of the ageing population, which is necessary to assess progress towards the target of increasing average healthy life expectancy by two years by 2020.
in writing. − over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora, unsustainable trophy hunting, overfishing, significant increase in poaching, illegal wildlife trade, climate change and deforestation are the main causes of the disappearance of endangered species such as sea cats, polar bears, elephants, corn rhinos and some ornamental plants. cites is the main global agreement on the conservation of these species and aims to prevent the overexploitation of wild fauna and flora due to international trade in wild animal and plant species. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 16th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) as i believe that the extinction of known threatened species must be prevented and their conservation status must be improved and maintained.
in writing. − the conservation of biodiversity is one of the major international issues of our time. the european union, as one of the most important markets for wildlife trade, has a particular responsibility to ensure that this trade, as well as trade in derived products, is sustainable and does not lead to the endangerment of the species concerned. since 1984, the european union has been implementing the provisions of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) through the european commission's regulations on trade in wild fauna and flora. in view of the 16th conference of the parties to the cites convention (cop 16) to be held in bangkok in march 2013, the envi committee asked the council and the european commission to set out the main strategic objectives of the european union and tabled a motion for a resolution urging the european union to take a leading role in protecting endangered species by actively participating in the cites convention negotiations. the resolution addresses the main issues to be discussed at cop 16 and suggests ways to increase transparency in cites decision-making.
in writing. − i believe that continuity of funding in the context of european development aid is necessary to achieve the main objectives of cites.
mr president, the organisation of plenary debates, cuts in travel-related budget lines, a reduction in the length and number of missions, increased use of videoconferencing, and optimised translation and interpretation services, all these structural reforms implemented in parliament have led to annual savings of approximately eur 29 million. however, i do believe that we can do more. translation and interpretation services could be used and paid for only on demand. this would permit savings in hours of non-needed translation, a lot of paperwork, and interpretation services as well as tonnes of paper, while continuing to ensure the multilingual principle. when we speak publicly and we want our constituents to hear us and to be accountable to our constituents, i can understand we want to use our languages. however, when we work internally between ourselves, among ourselves, on different dossiers i think we should limit the official languages to one or two and save a lot of taxpayers’ money.
the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy cannot be achieved without the private sector, without companies, without enterprises. it is obvious that they must be given facilities to develop and create jobs. but now i would like to turn to a specific issue, namely, the tendency of some businesses to mislead consumers. i therefore ask the commission to present clear measures to eliminate misleading and false information provided by companies on the environmental impact of products and services, their impact on consumers or on the social commitments and obligations of these companies. one way to stamp out this false information is to give the public clear and accurate information, so that they can judge what and how to use these products.
in writing. − the concept of social responsibility is essential both for the efficiency of the european social model and for achieving the sustainable and inclusive development objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the objective of achieving an employment rate of 75% depends essentially on the ability of national and european authorities, together with industrial entrepreneurs, to initiate social responsibility actions and campaigns. corporate social responsibility is not only an essential element of the 'european way of producing and building' but also a starting point for increasing the competitiveness of the european industrial sector. actions undertaken under the idea of social responsibility bring workers and consumers closer to producers, build relationships and social networks of extended solidarity and contribute directly to the development and cohesion of communities in the member states. i also support the amendment tabled by the commission which leaves open the possibility of adopting possible binding or regulatory measures on social responsibility.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility is more than a programme or a campaign. it is a philosophy, a way of behaving ethically and responsibly that touches on all aspects: from business, to the relationship with one's own employees, with customers, with shareholders, with suppliers, with the environment and, of course, with local communities. in recent times, more and more companies have realised that this approach can benefit them both by creating a competitive advantage and by promoting a positive image and ensuring a good relationship with all partners. at the same time, i believe that there should be coherence between social programmes, attitudes towards business, employees and the environment. if all these issues are dealt with discontinuously, there is no social responsibility at all.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's view that there is a need for greater visibility and an appropriate level of awareness of the contribution of small enterprises to corporate social responsibility (csr), because the responsibility of smes is not reduced compared to that of large ones simply because they do not have a separate csr infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i welcome the european commission's initiative to develop a csr strategy to support businesses in integrating fundamental social, ethical and environmental rights into their business strategies to ensure better consumer protection. i believe that this report helps to raise the visibility of csr practices and to disseminate them. this will improve the transparency of companies with regard to social and environmental information, which will increase the trust of citizens in companies. 90% of european enterprises are smes, which, by their characteristics of operation, become strategic in disseminating csr practices. the involvement of smes in csr is a political priority of the european parliament supported, inter alia, by this report.
i believe that in a period marked by the economic and financial crisis, which has caused significant social impacts both globally and at the level of the european union, the strategic approach to corporate social responsibility is becoming increasingly important for the competitiveness of companies. in this respect, i recommend that the development of csr be fully supported by local public administrations and thus create all the necessary conditions for cooperation in csr. also, providing appropriate tools and facilities, such as incentive schemes or ways to promote existing successful csr initiatives, will lead to significant benefits for both businesses and european society as a whole.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that corporate social responsibility is a catalyst for sustainable economic recovery in the union. we need to realise that, in addition to the benefits to society, csr actions also help companies to improve their image in the eyes of potential consumers. they can thus increase their competitiveness and be economically viable in the long term, providing more jobs. although smes play a very important role in the romanian economy, it is generally the large companies that conduct socially responsible business. there are a number of opinions that smes do not practice csr or are not familiar with the concept of responsible business. therefore, i believe that we need to raise their awareness of the importance and benefits of adopting responsible entrepreneurial behaviour.
in writing. − the most serious problems raised by the economic crisis are not confined to this sector of european societies. the most important issues raised by the prolongation of the recession are those relating to the impact of joblessness or prolonged unemployment on the living standards of european citizens. the situation is all the more dramatic for young people, the social group most affected by longterm unemployment. social responsibility measures can directly reflect on reducing unemployment at member state level. as the medium and long-term objective of the european union is to generate sustainable, sustainable and inclusive growth in european economies, a hard-hitting approach to social responsibility is inevitable. in these circumstances, i support the creation of a legal framework that allows both voluntary and mandatory actions to define the social responsibility of european entrepreneurs. i also believe that direct involvement of public authorities in the member states at this level is welcome. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility should respect fundamental principles and rights, such as those mentioned by the international labour organisation, in particular freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the prohibition of forced labour, the elimination of child labour and the elimination of discrimination at the workplace. businesses should also be involved in addressing social problems aggravated by the economic crisis, such as homelessness and poverty, and in developing the communities in which they operate. businesses are responsible for adopting proactive principles and policies to combat discrimination and social exclusion, promote gender equality and respect the fundamental rights of all. at the same time, member states should encourage undertakings to develop policies and measures on the need to respect the private and family life of all employees. such policies and measures should respect the principle of equality and should extend to negotiations on the duration and organisation of working time, the level of pay, the provision of practical facilities to workers and the establishment of flexible working conditions, including the nature of employment contracts and the possibility of interruption of professional activity.
in writing. − the rapporteur's proposal to integrate the notions of corporate social responsibility (csr) into the curricula of traditional management schools is welcome, in order to be able to use european and global best practices. in addition, i welcome the proposal for a new 'covenant' with civil society to achieve the objective of improving corporate social responsibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the latest communication from the european commission integrates the concept of csr into european thinking. my vote is in support of the european support for long-awaited csr initiatives in the context of the current economic crisis. i am convinced that r & d represents an opportunity for industrial competitiveness and that through the active engagement of enterprises, a series of actions can be initiated in the field of creating jobs for young people, sustaining pensions, promoting a 'minimum living wage' and combating exploitative practices of workers in enterprise supply chains. i would also like to stress the strategic role of public-private partnerships, which can make smes' efforts to disseminate csr policies more effective through sectoral framework cooperation agreements and a collective approach to social and environmental issues.
in writing. − i voted for the report on corporate social responsibility because it is all the more important now, in the context of the current economic and social difficulties facing member states, to support and encourage small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), because they can bring about sustainable economic growth by creating new jobs and, by implication, solve social problems. in this context, it is useful to propose the creation and implementation of a framework of guidelines which is not a legislative norm but which is appropriate to the needs of smes, supports their development and at the same time harmonises, with optimal results, environmental protection needs and those relating to social issues. it would be useful for the commission, in cooperation with national authorities and multilateral platforms, to develop a sectoral cooperation mechanism between smes, leading to an integrated approach to existing problems, including those relating to social and environmental aspects. this framework of guidelines should in no way replace, but only complement, the applicable legislation, collective bargaining and dialogue with trade union members.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe it brings viable solutions in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, which the union economy is currently facing. measures to combat these phenomena can improve tax collection and thus play an important role in increasing tax revenues. the commission's proposal to create a rapid reaction mechanism can bring real added value at european level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the level of tax collection in romania is much lower than in other eu countries. i therefore stress the need to stimulate the collection process, in particular by simplifying tax rules.
mr president, i had requested to speak on the casa report and i see i was not on the list. i gave up my turn to speak on the previous one but i am due to speak on the casa report.
in writing. − as vat fraud is evolving rapidly, many member states are left with no legal basis in existing eu vat legislation for the countermeasures they wish to take. combating vat fraud often has an international dimension, which is another reason why member states are not able to tackle fraud rings linked to new forms of trade involving several countries at the same time. these reasons, together with the fact that vat is one of the main sources of revenue for member states' budgets, force us to increase the efficiency of vat in the context of fiscal consolidation. i believe that this is the only way to improve tax collection and tackle tax evasion and thus give member states the chance to increase public revenue.
i voted in favour of the report because the european semester has proved to be a strong system of economic and fiscal coordination. support its continuation to provide member states and the union with effective guidance on the implementation of their policies. i also welcome the fact that a consensus has been reached on the report in the econ committee. as each member state is in a different fiscal and economic position, i believe that a differentiated fiscal consolidation effort, appropriate to each country, is needed. i think that's how we're going to break out of the vicious circle of slow economic growth, weaknesses in the financial system and tensions in the sovereign debt market. the pace of reforms must be maintained and even accelerated. we must not only focus on restoring growth, but also on ensuring its sustainability.
in writing. − coordination of economic policies is a necessary step towards achieving the objectives enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. coordination is essential, particularly in the field of fiscal, budgetary and employment policies. one of the procedures applied in this respect is the open method of coordination, which allows the identification of best practices applied in one member state and their application in other member states. means should be developed to ensure that elements of sustainable tax discipline are accompanied by concrete proposals for growth and job creation. it considers it appropriate to encourage private investment that generates growth elements.
in writing. - i voted against this report because its content has been distorted by right-wing political groups who continue to irresponsibly insist on harsh austerity policies that are suffocating the european economy. in a context where even the international monetary fund has accepted that austerity policies have been a failure at eu level, the report originally wanted to send a message of responsibility towards rebalancing macroeconomic policies at european level towards boosting economic growth and job creation. unfortunately, the conservative right has once again shown itself to be irresponsible, insisting on continuing its harsh austerity policies and thus acting against the interests of european citizens.
the economic and financial crisis is a fundamental challenge for the eu. the alarming rise in unemployment and the significant fall in living standards show that the impact of the crisis on the social situation has become more acute. measures to counter the effects of the crisis must focus on an active employment strategy, promoting investment in education, training, research and innovation. the use of the structural funds should also be made more efficient in order to increase the capacity for vocational integration. taxation and social benefit systems are also an important factor in employment, especially for vulnerable groups. i therefore believe that the member states must put forward concrete measures to promote job creation, such as reforms to taxes on labour. to minimise the social impact of the economic crisis, european policies must be adapted to the specific situation of each region and to the population groups most at risk.
mr president, we cannot turn away from the alarming unemployment figures in the european union that have risen due to the current economic crisis. in november 2012 roughly 26 million citizens of the eu 27 were unemployed and, of these, a staggering 5.7 million were under the age of 25. so young people in particular are being hit the hardest. one in five people between the ages of 15 and 24 is unemployed. it is essential that this problem be tackled head-on so that we do not look back and consider this to be a lost generation. in addition, of the 26 million eu citizens unemployed, 11 million have been unemployed for more than 12 months. therefore i urge the member states to adhere to the europe 2020 plan in a timely manner and not consider these goals as objectives but as human lives.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that its provisions make a significant contribution to the improvement of the unfavourable situation on the labour market. in the last 12 months alone, the number of unemployed has increased by 2 million. young people have been hit hardest, with unemployment rates among them rising to over 50 percent in some countries. in romania, too, the situation is very difficult, with about 24% of young people affected by unemployment. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to launch a youth guarantee scheme which can ensure that young people are quickly integrated into the labour market. at the same time, member states need to better adapt their education provision to labour market requirements. in romania, the reopening of vocational and apprenticeship schools can help reduce unemployment.
in writing. − the current crisis is a social and employment crisis and social governance must therefore be improved at eu level, alongside economic governance. the european semester is the most appropriate process to achieve this objective. member states must adopt measures to promote job creation, promote and support self-employment and start-ups, improve the business environment and facilitate access to finance for smes. at the same time, member states should take the necessary measures to transform informal and undeclared work into regulated employment, reform labour markets to make them more adaptable, dynamic and inclusive, and harness the high employment potential of the green sector to create jobs. all employment contracts should give workers access to a fundamental set of rights, including pension rights and social protection and access to lifelong learning programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it proposes a set of principles and directions for viable action on social and employment policies at european union level. it is therefore important that the policies promoted by the eu are in line with the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to create new jobs through growth-oriented investment and structural reforms. in times of crisis, it is important that social policies, especially those relating to job creation, be better coordinated at european level and compete to combat the effects of the crisis and the austerity curves promoted in many member states. in this context, the fight against undeclared work, the appropriate use of european funds and the reduction of unemployment, especially among young people, must be the main lines of action of the member states and the european union.
in order to have a fully functioning single market, the 500 million europeans should enjoy all the rights they deserve. unfortunately, reality has shown that our citizens still face many obstacles to transnational activity, unacceptable obstacles which can undermine the very idea of a single market in the european union. that is why i ask the commission, following in-depth territorial impact studies based on local and regional specificities, to ensure that member states will take all the necessary measures to implement the actions proposed in this communication. better coordination and cooperation between member states' administrations will thus lead to the removal of all transnational obstacles and the harmonisation of national rules, which are so necessary for citizens and their businesses.
mr president, the creation of the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european union and has promoted a european integration that only 74 years ago could not have been imagined. to ensure the stability and prosperity of the single market we must continuously maintain and update to function properly in our ever-changing world, especially in the midst of these uncertain times. the people rely on us to effectively deliver economic growth and this cannot be done without improved efforts to make the single market work better for businesses and for citizens. in addition to the single market another success of the european union is the single currency – the euro – and i would say it is very difficult to imagine that we can manage a single market and a single currency without a single political will.
i voted in favour of the report and congratulate the rapporteur on the position adopted and the new proposals put forward. both the member states and the union as a whole need to take concrete measures to fully implement the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital within the union. but for the single market to be fully defined, we need freedom of movement for workers. the restrictions on work for romanian and bulgarian citizens are a significant impediment to this. that is why i take this opportunity to appeal to the authorities and to my fellow meps in the uk not to impede access to the labour market for romanian citizens from next year.
in writing. − the single market guarantees the free movement of goods, capital, services and people within the european union. but many people do not really take advantage of it because of the complicated rules that govern it. i believe that efforts to achieve the single market must focus on the concerns and rights of citizens, consumers, users of public services and businesses and must bring concrete benefits to them in order to restore their full confidence in the single market and to raise awareness among them of the opportunities it offers.
in writing. − i believe that a functioning and efficient single market, based on the concept of a highly competitive social market economy, is needed more than ever to stimulate growth and competitiveness, but also to create jobs in order to revitalise the european economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the recommendations to the european commission on the governance of the single market because we need a strong union, characterised by cohesion and competitiveness. good governance of the single market and continued development of regions complement each other, with the immediate effect of improving local and regional growth prospects. local and regional authorities carry out a wide range of tasks covered by eu legislation in the field of the single market, in particular in the field of public procurement, state aid, services of general economic interest or concessions; the european commission and national governments must therefore ensure that local and regional actors are involved in the decision-making process from the pre-legislative stage. i welcome the proposal that, in addition to the procedures for consulting and stimulating dialogue with local and regional authorities, the european commission should also carry out in-depth territorial impact studies, based on local and regional specificities, in order to have a solid case for adopting the single market regulation before adopting a legislative proposal. and last but not least, i would like to reiterate the need to link the governance of the single market with cohesion policy and the union's key priorities, in particular those related to the eu 2020 strategy.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree with the main points of the report. however, as the epp shadow rapporteur for the european instrument for democracy and human rights, i would like to refer to one aspect in particular, and this is the protection of human rights defenders, which in my view must be one of the union’s key priorities. external action in support of human rights worldwide means spending money in order to help people. this help must come swiftly, meaning quickly, and it must be effective. human rights defenders, as we call them, are brave people, people who often face an incredible amount of political pressure, abuse and injustice. this is my understanding of human rights support and i appreciate that the report mentioned this issue. the union must take bold steps to protect the lives of people fighting for its values. we have the money to do it. we must also show that we have the courage to act.
in writing. − i consider it very important to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, as this is the first time the eu has ratified a un convention as a legal entity, and therefore i believe that the eu should also sign and ratify the council of europe convention on violence against women.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. we must give full support to the idea of integrated judicial training for european lawyers. by creating a european judicial culture and common ethical standards, we will increase the level of mutual trust between national courts and decrease the burden of the court of justice. i agree with the rapporteur that we can make more use of modern technology. we should use the internet and other computer-based applications for pcs, ipads and iphones in order to create digital networks of judges and legal professionals. at the same time policymakers and lawyers must work together to develop a proper professional code applicable across the european union. i am happy to see that we are finally discussing this issue and i believe that this is not yet over.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on judicial training as i believe it is important that the role of court coordinators be strengthened so that european law is better understood and better applied. national judges are also european judges, and it is therefore essential that they are aware of their role and responsibility in the interpretation and application of community law. at the same time, the role of the national coordinators for european law in the courts is to contribute to the popularisation and better understanding of community law, while at the same time achieving de facto harmonisation of the day-to-day functioning of the judicial system in accordance with community law.
mr president, in 2011 the european investment bank launched the danube region strategy and supported some 89 projects with a total of eur 10 billion in loans in the danube region, including in romania and moldova. the european investment bank is a driving force to foster development, growth and employment within and outside the european union. in 2011 the bank financed 454 projects in 70 countries. it is therefore crucial for the bank to keep its aaa credit rating. in addition, given the current financial crisis and the budgetary constraints involved, we must make sure that each euro is spent efficiently. the implementation of the eib-eu financial instruments should be based on ex-ante policy objectives and criteria combined with the transparent and efficient ex-post reporting system. the eib should also contribute to the fight against corruption and lack of transparency, and this could be done by collecting relevant information on beneficiaries and financial intermediaries.
i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that the decision to increase the capital of the eib should be confirmed. that is why i believe it is necessary to ensure that the eib maintains its aaa credit rating in order to maintain its access to capital markets worldwide. i welcome the support provided by the eib to smes in romania. an example of this is the eur 45 million loan granted last year to raiffeisen bank and raiffeisen leasing to finance projects initiated by smes. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. such practices are evidence of the importance of eib support to the business environment and to the economic recovery.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib) has a key role to play in achieving the union's objectives. i welcome the major contribution that the eib has made in areas of action such as growth, the transition to a smarter, greener and more sustainable economy, innovation, the fight against climate change, employment and i share the rapporteur's view that we need even more involvement from the eib. i support more effective cooperation and coordination between the eib and the other european institutions, as i believe that to emerge from the current crisis, europe must act globally in a coherent manner, taking into account both political and financial aspects as well as trade.
i would like to begin by welcoming the concise and clear resolution we are discussing today; it is rare to have a text with such qualities. the text is about a country trying to transform the kind of rural communism for which it was known into a kind of commercial communism and it is about, as my colleagues have said, the concern we all have about the disappearance of sombath somphone, a defender of farmers' land rights. i would also point out that just days before his disappearance, anne sophie gindroz, who was also involved in the same cause, was deported from laos. i would like to ask the vientiane authorities, as my colleagues have done, to conduct a transparent investigation into the disappearance of sombath somphone and i would like to note, in conclusion, that, in addition to the interventions of the united nations and the united states, there has been an intervention by asean members of parliament, which i would like to welcome.
mr president, for too long the disappearance of human rights activists has plagued developing countries, and sombath somphone is no exception. we must take a more active role in investigating mr somphone’s abduction and make his case a priority in the 22nd session of the united nations human rights council. more pressure needs to be placed on the laotian authorities to aid his safe return. given the video footage, the government response has so far been unacceptable. we all know the horrible prison conditions and corruption of the authoritarian states, and it is our responsibility as stewards of democracy and human rights to ensure sombath somphone is immediately returned to his family.
human rights continue to be violated in laos, and the forced disappearance of sombath somphone is the latest evidence of this. through his work, he laid the foundations for a model of rural development capable of ensuring food security in a very poor country. in laos, more than three quarters of the population live in rural areas, and most make their living from farming. that is why his work in combating hunger among the rural population is all the more important. i think the authorities should quickly identify the circumstances in which this man disappeared and ensure his immediate release. it is also very important that laos ratifies the international convention for the protection of persons from enforced disappearance.
my speakers have reported extensively on the situation in zimbabwe; i therefore believe that the european union, as a promoter of human rights in europe and the world, must support the proposal to send a significant group of european and international observers to monitor the elections in zimbabwe. to remove any suspicion about the conduct of the electoral process, international observation teams must remain on the ground before and after the elections to ensure that electoral campaigns are conducted in accordance with internationally recognised standards. i also stress the need for the zimbabwean authorities to respect their commitments to guarantee respect for human rights principles and legislation. otherwise, the european union will maintain the suspension of development cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for bringing the issue of the imprisonment of human rights activists in zimbabwe to the fore. despite noticeable improvements in the general human rights situation in zimbabwe since the signature of the global political agreement and the creation of the government of national unity, 2011 and 2012 saw sporadic arrests of human rights defenders and activists. the recent arrest of the zimrights director, okay machisa, has triggered a new wave of concerns amongst civil society organisations that this could be the sign of a closing of democratic and electoral space. the eu has been following this case very closely and is in regular contact with the lawyer representing mr machisa. the eu is actively working to support a large spectrum of civil society organisations and human rights activists in zimbabwe through its various financial instruments. in 2011 the delegation committed eur 9.8 million in support of civil society organisations alone. last year eur 5.5 million were committed and the figure will probably exceed eur 10 million in 2013. we have also acted promptly through statements and declarations in response to prolonged and unjustified detentions of human rights activists and against unfair treatment of not only human rights activists, but also journalists and civil society. the eu is also coordinating closely with international and, as was mentioned, regional key partners to strengthen civil society and improve the political space in zimbabwe. zimbabwe’s civil society is competent and as far as groups of human rights defenders and democracy advocacy are concerned, it is remarkably cohesive. i believe that the eu has an important role to play in supporting a peaceful and democratic future for zimbabwe.
in writing. – unfortunately, the unlawful detention of numerous human rights activists in zimbabwe is nothing new. however, the presidential election supposed to take place this year has triggered an increasingly vicious crackdown by president mugabe, who might be removed from power. i support any action that has the ability to stop any further politically motivated prosecutions and call for the release of those activists already in custody. it is essential that the people of zimbabwe be allowed to have open elections free of harassment, unlawful detention and the threat of torture.
on behalf of the epp group. attacks on medical personnel in pakistan are jeopardising the efforts of international organisations to provide aid to people in need. in 1990, there were over 20,000 cases of polio in pakistan. however, thanks to the efforts of the world health organization, in recent years, there have been fewer than 100 cases reported on average. however, the vaccination of children in pakistan must continue, as the country risks becoming the only place in the world where the virus still exists. the authorities should ensure the safety of medical personnel, regardless of the area in which they operate. support will also be needed to improve the quality of the vaccination campaign, increase immunisation coverage, and address social and cultural constraints.
the european union supports the efforts of the authorities of third countries to respect women's rights and is concerned about the threats posed by extremist groups to women and young people in pakistan who work in various non-governmental organisations, and about the security of international medical staff in the country. we also hope that the pakistani authorities will take all necessary measures to ensure the safety of representatives of humanitarian organizations, especially those involved in the continuation of the national plan for the eradication of polio, launched in 2012, because only in this way will we avoid an increase in the number of infections, especially among children. i also think it is useful to organise awareness campaigns, especially in rural areas, to raise awareness of the essential, independent and humanitarian role of medical staff in providing assistance to the population, especially when it comes to developing access to basic preventive health services.
reporting for an opinion of the committee on development. - austerity measures, as you said, have put millions of women out of work in the european union, especially in the health and education sectors, which is seriously affecting society as a whole. more than a third of women are employed part-time, reducing their access to social services and pensions and pushing them into poverty and misery. the disparities in pay and representation in decision-making at public and company level also reflect the degree of discrimination that persists in the european union. equal opportunities is, as you said, a fundamental right and that is why i am also calling on the european commission to review the directive on reducing the gender gap and to impose sanctions on member states that do not implement it. the difficulties caused by the crisis have created new suffering and exacerbated tensions and domestic violence. i would like to reiterate in this context the need and the call to the member states and the commission to ratify the convention on the elimination of violence against women.
i welcome this debate, but i already consider it a stereotype in political and parliamentary practice. i would have liked this debate to take place in a completely different context, and not as an effect of the celebration of 8 march, when we are trying to analyse how a fundamental principle of the european construction, namely gender equality, is implemented and respected. gender equality, in fact, is the standard of civilization of some communities, and that's what we should be talking about, and what the three reports are trying to talk about. i welcome the report on the crisis, i consider it realistic. without a doubt, if someone pays the bill for this crisis, in terms of gender, women pay an extra vat, because they are the first beneficiaries, in the negative sense, of the crisis, they are the ones who are dismissed faster than men, they are the ones who receive lower salaries than men, they are the ones who do not always have the chance to reconcile their professional and private lives. but as far as stereotypes go, i think the issues here are much more nuanced. a report should have defined what a stereotype is in its legal value and in the possibility that, in terms of subsidiarity, many member states already have definitions and are trying to avoid these stereotypes. it is very difficult to draw the line between a fundamental right, that of free information, which is a matter of rights and freedoms, but also a matter of culture, and the criminalization of this as a sexist insult.
the reality of gender stereotypes is one that many women still face. the impact of these stereotypes is exemplified by the quasi-segregation of many sectors of activity, as well as the persistence of discriminatory situations such as double working hours or the unequal sharing of tasks and responsibilities. the maintenance of these divisions in fact contributes significantly to the permanence of social status differences, as well as to the persistence of a significant income gap between men and women at the level of the european union as well as at the level of the member states. at the same time, in the absence of stronger policy action, the maintenance of these stereotypes blocks the achievement of equality in the labour market. last but not least, it should be stressed that gender stereotypes are one of the factors responsible for the still high level of violence against women in the european union. in these circumstances, i believe that proposals for action in the education and training process are essential to combat gender stereotypes.
the right to work is an essential precondition for women to be able to be economically independent, enjoy equal rights and professional satisfaction. unfortunately, austerity imposed by the economic crisis is affecting women's employment and may lead to increased exploitation of women in both the legal and the illegal economy, with longer-term consequences for women in atypical careers, precarious, low-paid or part-time jobs. in all these cases, the pension contribution will be incomplete and the percentage of women exposed to poverty and social exclusion will increase. i believe that reliable common indicators are needed to have comparable european statistics, to allow correct assessments of different situations and needs, to formulate appropriate responses at european union level and to reduce differences in pay for the same work or work of equal value.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as the rapporteur on the connecting europe facility (cef) i warmly welcome the forthcoming vote on the energy guidelines. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr correia de campos, on this occasion. as we know, the energy guidelines are a crucial element of the cef and need to be launched without delay in order to make the most of the seven-year budget. for a long time now we have acknowledged that the need for substantial investment in the european energy infrastructure is a precondition for the completion of the single european market. this will, in turn, improve the eu’s competitiveness and bring economic recovery in europe as well as more growth and jobs, while better connecting people and businesses. all these points have been acknowedged and agreed by parliament, by the commission and by the council. this is why parliament was surprised and disappointed at the severe budget cuts decided by the european council on the cef during the negotiations on the mff. while i agree that savings are necessary in the current context, i wonder how the council plans to relaunch the european economy by undermining its only growth instruments and, even worse, by reverting to the same old formula of grant-only allocation. the cef is an opportunity to be innovative and can maximise scarce resources thanks to the leverage effects of this financial instrument. i deeply deplore the member states’ conservative approach of capping the use of such instruments, thereby stripping the cef of all innovation and effectiveness. this will mean fewer projects that will be financed with less money; this is not what we really want. in any case, with a 60% cut in the energy part of the cef we will have to rethink our priorities accordingly when allocating these funds. we cannot pretend that all projects in all member states will be financeable. parliament intends to take its responsibilities as co-legislator seriously, and to stand united on its prerogative to negotiate with both the council and the commission on these priorities.
the new regulation is a notable initiative, as it aims to unify and simplify the framework for financing trans-european energy infrastructure. the connecting europe facility financial instruments are of particular importance in this context. romania will thus benefit from european funds for the promotion and implementation of national strategic projects. for the application of the new regulation, my country will be eligible for european financial aid for projects of common interest. nabucco and agri are two strategic projects in which romania is involved, and are also projects of common interest for the whole union. we are looking to ensure energy independence. in this regard, i hope that in june, the shah deniz consortium will choose nabucco to transport gas from the caspian sea basin to europe.
in writing. the ten-t regulation is important in achieving the objective of all member states having a level of interconnection equivalent to 10% of their installed generation capacity. the drawing up of the lists of projects of common interest according to the contribution of each project to the implementation of energy corridors should take into account the member states whose territory is affected by the project. it is important that if a proposal for a cross-border project meets the criteria but is supported by only one of the member states involved, the decision is delegated to the commission. the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) has an important role to play in electricity and gas projects, but i believe that acer should take into account the results of the analyses carried out by entso for electricity and gas. the entso shall assist in market and network modelling, cost-benefit analysis of projects of common interest, taking into account the socio-economic benefits of energy infrastructure at regional level. when financial support is granted to a project of common interest, it must be verified that there are no harmful consequences for other commercially viable projects. all of these should contribute to security of supply, including through diversification of sources, partners and supply routes.
i would like to recall a few conditions which i consider to be a priority for the union's energy perspective. first, energy regulations in the member states must take account of the provisions on the liberalisation of energy markets and aim, as a matter of priority, at removing the obstacles to the integration of energy markets. we need to put more value on regional energy capacity. a concrete example: in the western region of romania there are important geothermal energy resources, unused due to bureaucratic obstacles. i call on the commission and the competent national authorities to jointly examine the possibility of overcoming the obstacles to investment in geothermal energy. the development of own generation capacity and regional and cross-border transmission networks can ensure low energy consumption costs. imported gas energy resources can be diversified both by continuing investment in the south european corridor and by creating the complementary lng tron in the black sea.
in writing. the draft resolution refers to the need to accelerate investments in biofuels from agricultural waste. the potential of this field is huge. agricultural crop residues, usually left in the field, could generate over €30 billion a year for the european economy. the benefits would not only be in the supply of energy but also in the revitalization of the agricultural sector, with this waste representing a real source of income for farmers. it could also create almost a million jobs over the next ten years. the union should draw inspiration from the system in place since 2009 in the united states of america, where under the assistance programme payments of up to usd 45 per tonne of harvested dry biomass are provided. the reform of the european agricultural policy, on which we will be voting for the first time on wednesday, also deals with the use of farm waste for energy production, which i consider to be particularly important.
in writing. i welcome the european union's firm stance that european energy policy must respond to the need to prevent the negative effects of climate change. to prevent european firms' competitiveness from being damaged by the increased costs of this european energy policy, the european union must act with the same energy so that the world's major economies - china, india, russia, brazil - adopt policies in the same direction.
in writing. given the context in which the stress tests were carried out, i consider the questions raised by amalia sartori to be welcome. we need clear commitments from the commission on the nuclear industry. the public needs more security and confidence that the authorities are doing all that is necessary to prevent nuclear disasters. in addition to the disastrous accident at fukushima in japan, stress tests last year found that, to date, some countries have not implemented the nuclear safeguards agreed after the three mile island and chernobyl accidents. it is clear that we need binding legislation in the union on nuclear insurance and liability and that this legislation needs to be implemented as a matter of urgency. even though the legal responsibility for the nuclear safety and security of nuclear installations lies with the member states, the commission must ensure that national authorities take all necessary measures to protect the public.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is one of the main elements of the european initiative. the union shall regularly monitor emissions and removals for those gases through its monitoring mechanism. i welcome the commission's proposal to improve the union rules on this mechanism. the development of climate change instruments should also be facilitated. one such instrument is the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme. after six years of romania's participation in the eu ets, the scheme covers almost 12 000 carbon dioxide-emitting installations. it is an important step towards achieving the ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020.
in writing. the european union has committed itself, in the eu 2020 strategy and through the energy and climate change legislative package, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. the establishment of common european rules on accounting, monitoring and reporting of land use, land use change and forestry will also be an important step towards achieving these objectives, and i support the rapporteur's position on the consideration of land use practices in the union's climate change policy. by implementing these provisions, europe seeks to take into account the positive contribution of greenhouse gas storage in wood and wood products to the wider use of forests as a resource in a sustainable forest management framework, and to increase the use of wood products.
in writing. land use change is a potential major source of carbon emissions, but effective monitoring of this process can provide ways to adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change. a welcome development is that this agreement clarifies the absence of any obligations imposed on private operators and, in particular, farmers. the agricultural sector is already facing a complicated administrative burden related to the cap and it is important that no additional obligations are imposed on farmers. farmers should be paid fairly for their work and their essential role in food production, and not waste their energy and time filling out forms. this agreement follows the international negotiations on land use change. the european union is committed to supporting developing countries in their efforts to adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change. a continuous evaluation mechanism is needed to verify the performance in reducing emissions. by developing a comprehensive monitoring mechanism, we can improve international cooperation and encourage an effective global climate change policy without subjecting those working in agriculture to unnecessary additional effort.
romania has received a roadmap for joining the schengen area. it has met those demands, investing both european money and its own budget of over 1.3 billion euros. by 2012, romania also made efforts to respond to political demands from some member states. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to the beneficiaries. unfortunately, the government of that time, the same one that exists today, through political actions directed against the rule of law, showed that the reforms implemented can be reversed and cancelled that solution. the non-european attitude of some leaders of the socialist-liberal governing coalition has put romania in a situation without a clear perspective on joining the schengen area. the december 2012 european council requested the jha council to resume discussions; meeting last week, it postponed the resumption of discussions to december 2013. the reasons given are: the level of corruption, deviations from the rule of law, the situation in the judiciary, the existence in the government of ministers under criminal investigation. i believe that it is necessary to involve the european commission, through the means made available by the cvm, in order to normalize the situation in romania, so that in december 2013 a decision is taken for the benefit of the romanian citizens.
in the recent period, several romanian politicians have argued that romania has a well-developed system for the protection of minorities and that therefore the guarantee of the rights of national minorities in the country cannot be expected. allow me to contradict the government's propaganda of success in this regard. progress has been made over the last 20 years, but there is a wide gap between the normative situation in the legislation and the reality. thanks to the persistent work of the rmdsz, among other things, the right to use the mother tongue has been enshrined in law, but it is still lacking in its relations with public institutions. in recent times, several of our mayors have been punished by the state authorities for trying to enforce the law and for requiring knowledge of the hungarian language. in the western half of europe, the demands and rights of indigenous national minorities were addressed through a system of autonomy, and this would be the example to be followed in the new member states. then perhaps we, the people concerned, could report on the exemplary minority policy.
romania and bulgaria have fulfilled all the criteria laid down in the treaty for accession to the schengen area. the technical reports have proven this. unfortunately, unfavourable conditions in advance are standing in the way of the fundamental right to free movement. the double standard that some states use to stir up populist sentiments among voters is extremely dangerous. firstly, because it causes distrust in the union's ability to respect its own rules, and secondly because it makes romanian and bulgarian citizens the scapegoats of europe. we all remember the horrors of the last dark period of extremism in europe. the members of the council should act responsibly, not seek to divide the union between first-class and second-class citizens. romania and bulgaria want to cooperate for a european future, but to do so, they need real dialogue partners.
the romanian government is currently working on a draft law to reduce the support scheme for the renewable energy industry. in the context of today's debate in the european parliament on greenhouse gas emissions reductions, i strongly urge a prudent and balanced approach in the formulation of this proposal, given the impact that the formulation of the scheme to support investment in renewable energy may have on the energy system. predictability and legal certainty for investors are needed so that the change does not have the effect of stagnating the sector or stopping investments. at the same time, the loss of competitiveness of romanian industry and the energy poverty of consumers must be counteracted. the estimates show that in 2016-2017 final consumers could pay up to 30% more for energy. the objective must therefore be to make green energy self-sustainable and to help the final consumer to benefit from green energy. the revision of the legislation is a necessity. there is also a transparent public debate on this issue.
the union remains the largest donor of assistance to poor countries. however, unfortunately, the budget allocated to the european development fund for the period 2014-2020 has decreased by 11%, which will hamper the union's efforts in this area. eradicating poverty and achieving the millennium development goals must remain a priority in the union's external action. in the current context, more efficient use of the european development fund and the use of aid for the world's poorest countries will be needed, and the allocation of 20% of the total for health and education infrastructure is very important. the inclusion of the fund in the union budget as from 2021 may also lead to greater consistency in the use of aid and to a reduction in administrative expenditure.
although formally not part of the union's territory, the overseas countries and territories are of particular strategic importance. the renewal of the association framework is essential for both sides. this will help to strengthen competitiveness and reduce the vulnerability of the territories. in cooperation with the union, the focus will be on sectors that generate economic growth in those areas, such as tourism and agriculture. strong support will also be needed for the fisheries sector in the territories concerned, in particular in the fight against illegal fishing and coastal management. last but not least, the aid provided should ensure better integration into regional economies, but also promote cooperation with other partners. however, all measures will have to be adapted to the specificities and diversity of these areas.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on legal affairs. - i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, ms róża thun and, in particular, mr louis grech, with whom i have cooperated very effectively. i would also like to thank the council for its efforts to adopt this extremely important directive as soon as possible. in order to guarantee consumer confidence in alternative dispute resolution procedures, we need minimum standards at european level. first, the persons responsible for adr need to have the necessary expertise and experience. secondly - and this is one of the most important aspects - the independence and impartiality of the dispute resolution personnel must be ensured. in my view, the compromise reached with the council is a pragmatic one, because it sets out clear criteria of impartiality and independence, strict obligations of transparency, and allows the maintenance of the existing alternative solution bodies. i hope it will have the unanimous support of parliament and that the member states will transpose it as soon as possible in the interests of european consumers.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, please first of all allow me to welcome the irish presidency initiative, which i personally consider to be the boldest i have seen in recent years. it is already a truism that populism has spread in the european union and that such discourses are spread and promoted by political parties – extremist political parties that have got into parliaments, and sometimes also into government and can influence governmental policies. the eu seems to have not enough or not proper antibodies to fight this and to fight discrimination, and there is too much tolerance of hate speech and of crimes motivated by hate. i think, therefore, that instruments are absolutely necessary, particularly when we see that in the member states we have better legislation and better mechanisms to combat discrimination than at eu level. that is not acceptable. therefore, it is a matter of urgency to revise the framework decision against racism and xenophobia and to enlarge it. also, on religious issues, on intolerance against gypsies and on homophobia, the council must adopt the anti-discrimination directive which has been blocked for quite some time now. it is time to do this as it is one of the main instruments to fight discrimination and violence. it is indeed time to stop roma expulsions and discrimination, including in france, where these days this policy continues the policies promoted by mr sarkozy. we need instruments to monitor infractions and violations of fundamental rights in hungary, but not only in hungary, in other member states as well. it is interesting that parliament has been asking for this for several years. now we have a few member states that are also calling for this, so i think it really is time to act in this direction. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – it is actually rather easy, mr brons. if crimes are committed, they are not committed by race, they are committed by individuals, so whenever you want to penalise, you penalise the individual. at the same time, when another individual commits a crime because he or she does not agree with the fact that a person is different, this must be penalised and of course it must have an even bigger penalty.
in writing. since the beginning of the financial crisis, the attention of national and european authorities has been focused on economic and austerity policies, while the defence of the union's core values, such as fundamental rights, solidarity and social peace, has been neglected. today we can see the disastrous effects of this neglect. racist, xenophobic, anti-semitic and nationalist rhetoric and demonstrations have proliferated and have been promoted not only by extremist parties but also by leading political figures and movements. by far the ugliest and most discriminated community in europe is the roma. the european strategy of 2011 has not produced any results. therefore, i believe that it needs to be revised and improved, especially to address and recognise the phenomenon of racism against roma and to strengthen the role of local authorities in inclusion policies. i also want to point out that xenophobia and racism affect not just certain ethnic groups but entire nations. i am referring in particular to the romanians and bulgarians, who continue to be treated in many european countries as second-class citizens, who should not have access to basic rights such as freedom of movement and work, which is unacceptable.
in writing. − one of the major challenges facing europe today is the provision of sustainable, competitive and secure energy. despite recent progress, rising energy prices and dependence on imported energy, insufficient integration of the internal energy market, energy isolation of certain geographical areas and limited access to diversified energy sources still pose obstacles to a secure and competitive energy market. the new regulation on guidelines for trans-european energy infrastructures proposes to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market and the achievement of eu energy policy objectives, in order to reduce emissions and combat climate change by modernising and interconnecting energy networks. i believe this initiative is important in establishing a solid and ambitious framework for designing an energy policy adapted to our future needs.
in writing. − each eu member state has an energy mix that is determined by geographical, technological and energy policy conditions as well as national needs. it consists of a core load sector, which is continuously fed by fossil, nuclear and hydroelectric resources and a part of renewable energy. since the share of electricity from renewable sources could more than double between 2007 and 2020, i believe that it is no longer enough to think in national categories. the construction and expansion of transnational networks is imperative to meet the growing demand for electricity, to promote market integration, to maintain the security of the networks, to transport electricity produced from renewable sources and to compensate for fluctuations. it can also make an indispensable contribution to achieving energy efficiency objectives.
in writing. − trans-european energy infrastructure plays a key role in meeting the climate and energy policy objectives set by the commission. i believe that this proposal will lead to the modernisation and development of crossborder energy networks within the eu, which are necessary to ensure the future and energy security of the continent and to be able to deal with new challenges in this field. these challenges are associated with increasing demand for electricity, finding new ways to secure the transport of electricity produced by natural renewable processes and compensating for energy fluctuations. increasing energy efficiency depends on overcoming these challenges.
in writing. − europe needs faster, more decisive and concerted action to ensure a global perspective and a considerable level of interdependence between member states on energy infrastructure. better integration of the internal energy market, the removal of the energy isolation of certain geographical areas, better access to diversified energy sources are needed to ensure energy security and with tangible effects for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a key step in accelerating the completion of the internal market and in achieving the energy market and climate objectives. the european energy policy sets clear targets for 2020: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% share of energy from renewable sources in final energy consumption, a 20% increase in energy efficiency. for the european market to provide energy in a sustainable, safe and secure way, we need to move beyond the false national context of 'self-sufficient' and 'independent' and create synergies. i believe that this report fulfils this mission by defining nine geographical corridors and three priority thematic areas and by establishing rules for identifying projects of common interest, and by establishing the 'single national framework' for project acceleration and monitoring. on the basis of the proposal, projects of common interest will be allocated on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis. the same will apply to the allocation of investment costs according to the cross-border area where the benefits arise, thus providing incentives for high-risk projects and establishing eligibility conditions for financial assistance through the connecting europe facility.
in writing. − the european union must act as soon as possible to secure its energy future and protect its interests in this area. to this end, the role of trans-european energy infrastructures is critical in ensuring that the energy targets set are achieved to the highest standards. i therefore believe that the european union must make every effort to support the member states in complying with the guidelines set at community level and, most importantly, provide substantial financial support for the development of large-scale crossborder projects. that is why i want to express my dissatisfaction with the council's decision to reduce the budget allocated to the connecting europe facility from eur 50 billion to eur 29 billion. this mechanism, designed to replace the current ten funding regulation, was to be a very important resource for the member states, but with this budget, i doubt we will ever be able to achieve the objectives proposed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the current environmental impact assessment (eia) directive is flawed and needs to be improved. the case of vienna airport proved this. the approach to dealing with complaints from complainants about breaches of community law needs to be reviewed and the shortcomings identified by the ombudsman need to be addressed. therefore, an appropriate ex-post eim is necessary to allow a full evaluation of the implemented projects. the review of the directive should also include requirements relating to the objectivity and impartiality of the competent authorities in order to avoid any conflict of interest. the inquiry should serve as a model for similar cases or procedures that we may face in the future.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the land use sector needs to be gradually but effectively integrated into the union's climate policy. i support the rapporteur in her decision to bring the report into line with the conclusions of the durban convention. the sector absorbs the equivalent of 9% of greenhouse gases emitted in other parts of the economy. in line with the europe 2020 targets, my country has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. romania also agreed to increase the share of renewable energy in the national energy mix to 24%. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the romanian electricity market is in a situation of serious difficulties.
in writing. − land and forest management can mitigate or exacerbate climate change. forests and agricultural land make up over three quarters of europe's landscape. while the eu's greenhouse gas emissions come mainly from energy production and other anthropogenic sources, some emissions are offset by the uptake of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through photosynthesis and storage in trees and other plants, soil, biomass and timber. in view of the above, i believe that there is a need for appropriate land use and management practices in forestry and agriculture that can lead to both the limitation of greenhouse gas emissions and the enhancement of removals from the atmosphere.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to include lulucf (land use, land use change and forestry) in the eu's climate policy. accounting for emissions from lulucf is a key step in supporting the european union's efforts to mitigate the effects of climate change and to meet the targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy, as well as to meet commitments made to the international community under the kyoto protocol and the united nations framework convention on climate change. the european union must 'lead by example' in tackling the effects of climate change, and this report can help to build such an example.
in writing. − the way we use land and forests is certainly contributing to climate change mitigation or exacerbation. the application of appropriate land use and management practices in forestry and agriculture can help to limit greenhouse gas emissions and enhance removals. therefore, the lulucf sector (land use, land use change and forestry) needs to be increasingly integrated into the european union's climate change policy. the proposed accounting rules for lulucf cover a significant gap in greenhouse gas inventories at the level of the european union, thus strengthening the environmental integrity of the eu's climate change policy. all economic sectors must contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. solid accounting standards for emissions and removals from lulucf activities are the first step towards achieving this objective. rigorous and harmonised accounting within lulucf will certainly contribute to biodiversity conservation, soil protection and adaptation to climate change.
in writing. − tackling climate change is crucial for development, avoiding natural disasters and eradicating poverty. that is why we need to increase monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions from land use, land use change and forestry. in this respect, i support the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on accounting rules and action plans for greenhouse gas emissions and removals, because it is necessary for member states to account for emissions and also report them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on accounting rules for land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) because it is a coherent and necessary measure in efforts to make sustainable use of natural resources. the achievement of the objectives set by the european union in the framework of the eu 2020 strategy and of energy and climate policy cannot be achieved without a robust system of accounting rules for emissions and removals from lulucf activities. as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol, member states and the european union have obligations to comply with the convention. the report puts these obligations into practice and ensures that climate policy is consistent with existing eu legislation, namely the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive.
in writing. − i believe that there is a need for rigorous accounting rules applicable to the lulucf sector. however, as with any new administrative burden, we have an obligation to keep bureaucracy to a minimum. member states have a wide range of administrative obligations, which arise from regulations adopted at european level, and we need to balance the benefits of these obligations (in this case, accounting and reporting activities) with the costs they impose.
in writing. − tools to monitor the impact of climate change mitigation actions are a prerequisite for effective greenhouse gas emission reduction strategies. the unequivocal identification of the environmental status at a given time can provide the directions for action that can lead to the achievement of the emission reduction targets set at national, european and international level. i welcome the proposals to optimise and improve eu rules on reporting and monitoring of emissions, as they will strengthen the union's negotiating position in the international conferences concerned and reassert its role in the field of climate change. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to improve the existing legislation on the mechanism for reporting and monitoring greenhouse gases. the proposed legislative changes will lead to more accurate data reporting, which means that a more accurate assessment of where member states are in achieving the barometers set and assumed by international climate change agreements will be possible. at the same time, i support the commission's proposal to keep the reporting requirements at national level and not to collect additional data from industry and smes. another positive aspect of this proposal is the increased transparency of the data reported.
in writing. − the challenges of climate change require ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. achieving these objectives requires new monitoring and reporting requirements that provide reliable and accurate data in a timely manner. the union and the member states should endeavour to provide the most up-to-date information on greenhouse gas emissions, in particular in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. the existing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions monitoring and reporting system (gems) needs to be improved and updated to support the effective implementation of the european union's climate change policies. the monitoring and reporting system shall ensure the transparency, accuracy, consistency, comparability and completeness of greenhouse gas inventories. but in order to have an effective monitoring and reporting system it is important to avoid adding to the administrative and financial burden already borne by member states. the european environment agency has an important role to play in developing and implementing coherent methodologies and in supporting member states in the transparent and accurate monitoring of actual and expected progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to reassure citizens that the european union is delivering on its commitments to combat pollution. to this end, it is necessary to improve the existing mechanisms for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions. rapid, reliable data and transparency in reporting greenhouse gas emissions are useful in the process of developing sound climate policies.
in writing. − member states need to improve the timeliness, transparency and comparability of their greenhouse gas emissions reporting. this is a key condition for seeing that the union and its member states are on track to meet the proposed targets and to develop new sound policies to address climate challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is an improved version of the current legislation on reporting and monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions. the proposals aim to optimise and improve the legislative framework and ensure timely and reliable data on eu and member state developments in the timetable for achieving climate objectives. the provision of transparent and complex information will increase the union's credibility vis-à-vis its developing partners. i welcome the inclusion of the shipping sector in the eu's emissions reduction targets and, not least, the retention of the provisions in the old mechanism on the collection of data from smes and industry.
in writing. − i welcome the report by mr eickhout as it definitely brings us one step nearer towards achieving our targets and living up to the international commitments regarding climate change.
a european platform for out-of-court dispute resolution of disputes between consumers and traders arising from the cross-border sale of goods and services online can have beneficial effects for consumers and traders, who will be able to resolve conflicts with speed and minimum costs, for online transactions as a modern form of trade, and for the european union, which can thus provide safeguards at european level, which is likely to increase the confidence of european citizens in europe and in the efficiency of european mechanisms. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
i voted in favour of the report, given that european citizens often prefer not to report disputes because of the difficult settlement procedures. by buying goods and services cross-border and online, european citizens can get good prices, but there have been multiple reports of problems with the quality of products or their delivery. in 2010, one in five union consumers experienced problems when purchasing goods or services in the single market and this situation has not yet improved substantially. i support the rapporteur and believe that the online dispute resolution platform is an effective way to address the shortcomings. with its help, we will be able to avoid difficult and costly legal proceedings and consumer compensation will be facilitated.
in writing. − the establishment of a free european platform for online dispute resolution, available in all the official languages of the union, is a key instrument for the efficient resolution of disputes between consumers and traders arising from the purchase of goods and services online. this platform has the potential to ensure that all consumer complaints can be submitted to an adr entity and thus consumers will see their complaint resolved much faster than before a court of common law. i believe that the possibility of online dispute resolution will encourage european consumers to buy goods or services online and in other member states than their own, thus ensuring that they can take full advantage of the free movement of goods and services in the eu.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the european single market needs transparent alternative solutions to resolve consumer disputes and litigation. this system will make it possible to solve problems involving the sale of goods or the provision of services throughout the european union in a simpler, cheaper and faster way. i support this report because the eu must continue its efforts to ensure a high level of consumer protection throughout europe.
in writing. − the development of the single market at european level has allowed eu citizens to travel, shop and pay without restrictions, and the digital dimension of the internal market is now vital for consumers and traders alike. in order to have a complete digital internal market, existing barriers need to be removed and consumer confidence needs to be increased. i believe that the establishment of a reliable and efficient online dispute resolution system can contribute greatly to this increase in consumer confidence in the union.
in writing. − i salute this report as it represents an important step forward to encourage e-commerce and to make both consumers and traders more confident of developing transactions online. it is especially reassuring for small traders and consumers to know that they will find support in the event of a problem through an online dispute resolution system.
unfortunately, we find that many consumers and traders are not aware of, or do not have sufficient information about, the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. i too argue that ensuring access to simple, efficient, fast and inexpensive ways of resolving disputes, at national and crossborder level, arising from the sale of goods or the provision of services would benefit consumers and therefore strengthen their confidence in the market. this access should exist for both online and offline transactions and is particularly important when consumers shop abroad. in this context, providing citizens with accurate and clear information on how to access adr entities is of crucial importance.
i voted in favour of the report because many consumers face problems when buying goods or services in the single market. the regulation on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes should increase their confidence. today, the use of the internet for shopping is increasing, but many consumers and merchants are hesitant to buy or sell online because of fears that disputes will not be resolved. although they exist in several member states, salw still present shortcomings. therefore, all member states must ensure that such entities exist in all business sectors and that they are accessible and effective. it is estimated that this could save consumers some eur 22.5 billion a year.
in writing. − alternative dispute resolution offers citizens the opportunity to have their complaints resolved more quickly, cheaper and in a simplified manner than if they had to go to the ordinary courts. when it comes to the purchase of goods or services, it is essential that all consumers benefit from those benefits and therefore have the possibility to bring complaints before alternative dispute resolution entities for consumer disputes (adr entities). that is why i support the proposal for a directive. it has the merit of ensuring that, throughout the european union, all citizens will benefit from a high degree of protection when they shop online or offline, nationally or across borders. i believe that the introduction of safeguards for the independence and impartiality of the persons responsible for these entities adds value to this directive, because it gives credibility and therefore encourages consumers to use their services. a significant improvement on the current situation is that traders are required to inform consumers about the adr entities to which they can turn, both on their websites and in the general terms and conditions of contracts or in other applicable areas.
in writing. − i support the creation of a european-wide online dispute resolution platform for consumers and traders, which will allow for the resolution of disputes in an effective and fast manner, thus avoiding the difficult and costly legal processes. this platform will also increase the confidence of our citizens in e-commerce and help reduce online fraud.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal on alternative consumer dispute resolution. more and more eu citizens buy their goods online and many of these transactions take place across borders. the increased numbers of consumers that experience problems when buying online justifies the development of an improved mediation mechanism; a mechanism that will help to fill the gaps in coverage for consumers and help to regain consumer confidence in cross-border e-commerce.
the european union and the overseas countries and territories can cooperate to exchange good practices for active labour market policies to have strong social dialogue, high-standard employment and social protection, to protect workers' rights, to fight against forced or child labour and to combat undeclared work. they should also exchange best practices and cooperate on investments in services such as affordable and quality childcare and care for the elderly. they can help to promote gender equality, work-life balance and reintegration into the labour market. the european union and overseas countries can cooperate to promote decent work, in conditions of freedom, equality, security and human dignity, facilitating poverty reduction and contributing to sustainable development.
in writing. − the overseas countries and territories play a particularly important geostrategic role for the european union. i support this report because the eu needs to be more actively involved in the sustainable, social and economic development of these countries, and also in combating climate change. the eu must also support the competitiveness of these regions, as well as the promotion of tourism and agriculture.
in writing. − regional cooperation at the level of the outermost regions plays an important role in their relations with the european union on the one hand, and with neighbouring third countries on the other. i support the proposal that the union improve its coordination and synergies between cooperation programmes supported by various eu financial instruments, in order to programme joint projects that associate the countries neighbouring these regions.
in writing. − ensuring high standards of drinking water quality has in recent years taken on an increasingly important role in eu policy-making, due to the close link between water, the environment and human health. consistency of legislation in this area is essential to meet the challenges of water pollution, which is why i believe radionuclides should be treated like any other carcinogenic contaminant and therefore monitored accordingly. in order to make this possible, i support the rapporteur's proposal to amend the legal basis of the commission's proposal. the adoption of the 'polluter pays' principle to determine who bears the cost of sampling and monitoring in the event of contamination from human activities is an appropriate choice in this context. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for the report because i believe it is extremely important to ensure the quality of drinking water and to protect people's health. contamination of water with radioactive substances should be monitored. even if there is a council directive that imposes requirements in relation to the control of the titrate and the total indicative dose, this is not implemented by the member states. therefore, it is necessary to amend the legal basis and the proposal must contain all sources of natural and man-made radioactivity, as well as all types of exposed groups, in particular by age. the 'polluter pays' principle should also be introduced in the case of man-made pollution and the methods of controlling pollutants should also be strengthened. and information on water quality must be transparent and accessible to citizens.
in writing. − radioactive contamination of water is to be considered, mainly as a result of internal exposure due to absorption and fixation of radionuclides in the body. alongside natural sources of radioactive contamination, massive human-made sources of radioactive water pollution have emerged over the last 60 years, from atmospheric and underwater nuclear testing to the systematic dumping of radioactive waste into seas and oceans, radioactive waters, and nuclear reactors with an expired life. all of this poses a risk to european citizens and i believe that for legal certainty and the coherence of union legislation on drinking water quality, radionuclides must be treated in the same way as any other carcinogenic contaminant, in order to take into account the cumulative impact of the adverse effects of the different contaminants.
in writing. − ensuring safe drinking water for european citizens is a key concern of human health and environmental protection policies. it is important for the consistency of union legislation on drinking water quality that radionuclides are treated in the same way as any other carcinogenic contaminant in order to take into account the cumulative impact of the adverse effects of the different contaminants. in order to ensure a high level of protection of public health, it is necessary to establish common quality standards for water intended for human consumption with indicator function and to ensure monitoring of compliance with those standards. it is also necessary to distinguish between radioactivity from natural sources and radioactivity from the normal operation of nuclear installations (artificial radiation and/or radiation from human activities) in order to protect public health in europe. natural radiation levels and contamination from human activities need to be managed differently according to different criteria. member states should ensure that nuclear activities do not lead to contamination of drinking water resources. the polluter pays principle should also be respected in relation to the cost of sampling and monitoring in the event of artificial contamination and the monitoring of contaminants should be strengthened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report to guarantee the citizens of the european union access to drinking water free of radioactive contamination. the authorities responsible for monitoring water must be as careful as possible in their controls, both to protect the environment and the health of the european consumer. in addition, the public should be informed as soon as possible in the event of contamination.
in writing. − the commission proposal defines clearly and explicitly the basic safety rules for the protection of the health of the general public against the dangers of ionising radiation, with reference to radioactive substances in drinking water. i support this proposal because it provides certainty as to the radiological quality of the water supplied by the distribution systems. i would make one comment: in my view, the long-lived radionuclides of polonium (po-210) and lead (pb-210) should be included in the definition of the total indicative dose (tid). this suggestion should be re-examined in the light of future technologies.
in writing. − i totally supported this report given the importance of monitoring radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety we agreed to make this legislation more consistent with the objective of protecting public health, and therefore we decided that it is necessary to change the legal base from the euratom treaty to the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − this unprecedented crisis has put the economic and financial stability of the european union to the test, with serious social consequences. however, we can learn from this experience to avoid such a situation in the future by taking early, clear and rapid action when a euro area member state is facing or is likely to face serious financial disturbances. the enhanced surveillance procedure of a member state will allow preventive action to be taken, which is always preferable to corrective action, which sometimes comes too late. i support this draft regulation, which, together with the regulation on the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and ensuring the correction of excessive deficits of euro area member states, strengthens the european economic governance package adopted by the council and parliament in 2011 to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area.
in writing. − given that funding for innovative start-ups in europe is five times lower than in the us and investors prefer to invest in unlisted companies over venture capital, i believe that the rules on the categories of investors that can be targeted by a venture capital fund should be harmonised as soon as possible, a set of solutions to the tax problems that can prevent these funds from making cross-border investments should be developed and measures to guarantee and promote investments in venture capital funds should be adopted to provide confidence to potential investors. these measures will increase the role of venture capital in sme financing - 2% in the eu compared to 14% in the us - and, by implication, will increase the competitiveness of european companies on international markets.
in writing. − at european union level, social enterprises are a growing sector that will make a valuable contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. due to their contribution to addressing the social consequences of the financial crisis, it is necessary to facilitate access to the financial support they need to develop. it is essential to establish an appropriate legal framework providing for uniform rules applicable to the different types of investment funds eligible for the status of 'european social entrepreneurship fund', which will also allow for the development of a more transparent investment market and increase investor confidence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, in order to support innovative solutions to combat poverty, access to housing, assistance for the elderly or disabled, childcare and access to employment and vocational training services. it requires equal treatment of investors, reduction of red tape, but also a more rigorous audit to avoid money laundering.
in writing. − it is good for europe that there are so-called social enterprises, which use profit to achieve social objectives, and that they are run by workers, customers and stakeholders. their main objective is to generate social outcomes rather than profit for their owners and shareholders, to provide social services or goods to vulnerable or marginalised people that contribute to poverty reduction, access to housing, healthcare, assistance for the elderly or disabled, childcare, access to employment services and vocational training.
in writing. − although they represent some 2 million enterprises, with 11 million employees in the eu, social enterprises have underdeveloped financing systems compared to those of traditional enterprises. in this context, i believe it is absolutely necessary to step up support for enterprises in the social economy sector by promoting additional financial means both at national and european union level. one solution is to simplify access to the relevant structural funds in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and to include in the european social fund the european regional development fund, the horizon 2020 programme and the programme for social change and innovation, specific axes for microfinance and social entrepreneurship. only then will we be able to guarantee adequate support for social enterprises that promote high quality jobs, combat poverty and social exclusion and invest in the education and training of european citizens.
in writing. − the european union is currently facing major challenges arising from the economic and financial crisis. i believe that the basis for economic recovery, job creation must be solidarity and political unity, but also the development of innovative methods that respond to the needs of society. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that one of the solutions to these desires is to encourage social entrepreneurship and social enterprises. the creation of a common european framework for investment funds for social enterprises will simplify the rules for attracting funds and strengthen investor confidence. at the same time, the establishment of a european social entrepreneurship fund not only represents a new brand of the european union, but also creates a considerable margin of safety for investors. facilitating access to finance for social enterprises to develop and scale up at all levels: local, regional, national and european is also a priority. and last but not least, the new financing instrument must be accompanied by a common eu framework to provide information to investors.
unfortunately, studies show that only 10% of policy initiatives announced or implemented in national reform programmes have taken into account the consequences of this measure on gender equality. moreover, the european economic recovery plan makes no mention of gender, women or equality. the absence of a gender mainstreaming perspective demonstrates the low sensitivity to gender equality in the recovery process from the economic crisis. i suggest that the european commission constantly monitor the risk that a tax consideration will erode social assistance and gender equality infrastructure and increase monitoring and awareness of breaches of statutory rights to maternity leave and parental leave. breach of the right to maternity and/or paternity leave may be more frequent in small or medium-sized enterprises, due to higher organisational costs.
the consequences of the current crisis have a negative impact on women, as acceptance of, in particular, precarious, low-paid, part-time jobs, driven by the need for income and the traditional assumption of family responsibilities, ultimately leads to lower pensions than men. the increase in women's poverty not only leads to a lower standard of living, but also increases women's dependence on men, which has a negative effect on europe's hopes for gender equality. in this context, i support the call for the european institute for gender equality to carry out a permanent monitoring of the impact of the financial and economic crisis on gender equality, to provide policy makers with a real picture, and an annual report to the european parliament and the european commission, using accurate and reliable indicators.
i have supported this report by mrs morin, which i consider to be a realistic report. it correctly identifies the impact of the crisis on women in the european union, although perhaps more emphasis should have been placed on the labour market, where the first bill of this crisis is already being paid by women, the first to be laid off, the first to receive pay cuts, the first to have flexible working hours and, certainly, the first to have a very difficult time reconciling their private and professional lives. but what i find wrong with this report is that it does not aim at proposing solutions. it is certainly easy to monitor the situation in all member states through the european institute for gender equality in vilnius, but solutions are not forthcoming. i think it was time for parliament to propose a series of positive actions to the member states.
i voted in favour of the report because it is important that we act quickly to lessen the impact of the economic crisis on women. while unemployment among women in general has not increased significantly, unemployment among young women reached an alarming 20.8% in 2011. in romania, too, unemployment among young women has risen. the impact is particularly felt among women belonging to ethnic minorities. in this connection, i would like to stress the situation of roma women. in romania, only 23% of roma women are employed, compared to 36% of roma men. i believe that the main levers of action are education and training. the needs of roma women must be addressed by applying a gender perspective in all roma integration policies.
in writing. − the european union is currently facing the worst economic crisis in its history. the visible decline in living standards is compounded by uncertainty and uncertainty about the ability of the european economy to cope, in terms of reliability and competitiveness, with the new global economic and financial context. it should also be stressed that the impact of the economic crisis has been markedly differentiated. in the face of the persistence of important gender stereotypes and evident imbalances in both employment and income, combating discrimination becomes one of the implicit imperatives in the fight to overcome the economic crisis. the exposure of women to additional risks such as poverty or unemployment in the current economic crisis must be addressed by a gender policy package that requires close cooperation between national and european authorities.
in writing. − gender equality is not only morally based, but in the current socioeconomic context, it is an economic imperative. the european union must make the most of all its human resources and skills. i therefore support this report to provide additional support for occupations occupied by women, which are likely to be affected by the crisis, as well as support for childcare, training and access to employment. i reiterate in this connection the need for a proposal for a directive on measures to reduce pay differentials for the same work or work of equal value and on measures to encourage mothers to access the labour market.
in writing. − given that the gender perspective is not sufficiently taken into account and that it is important that women, who are generally highly qualified in almost all areas, are fully integrated into the political, economic and financial decision-making process and into the agreements between the social partners, i believe that the commission should consider the possibility of a new adaptation of the european structural funds in order to provide additional support for occupations occupied by women affected by the crisis, as well as support for childcare, training and access to employment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to support the inclusion of gender equality in the anti-crisis measures taken by member state governments. the social crisis of recent years has been overshadowed by financial and economic crises, but the consequences have not been long in coming. women's rights were severely affected by budgetary austerity policies, as women were already suffering from poor employment conditions and much lower wages than men. the cuts to budget staff, family allowances, maternity leave, social benefits and budgets for social infrastructure, education, childcare and health have increased the risk of poverty for women and have upset work-life balance. i believe that women have played a vital role in resisting the crisis and that they also represent a considerable potential for improving the competitiveness and performance of european enterprises. i believe that the resources of the european social fund should be mobilised alongside all other european programmes to enable greater social inclusion by guaranteeing the right to work and gender equality.
gender stereotypes still exist at all levels of society and across all age groups, deepening gender inequality, further limiting women's labour market opportunities in specific male-dominated sectors, but also perpetuating violence against women, sex-objectifying women and influencing gender inequality from an early age. i support the rapporteur's proposal to use the european social fund by the european commission and the member states to combat gender stereotypes through lifelong learning and to encourage girls to choose studies in areas that are not traditionally considered feminine. i also believe that continuing education for equality at all levels is a way of eliminating, over time, the consequences of gender stereotypes on today's children, tomorrow's adults.
as shadow rapporteur on this report, both i and my group abstained from the vote on this report. now, we certainly recognize gender stereotypes, we recognize that they exist in education, in public life, in private life, including family life, they exist in the labor market, but we think it's a mistake to treat gender stereotypes in the same way that we treat the whole gender issue. there are a number of areas where subsidiarity is relevant: i am referring to the very clear link with the media and the transposition of the image of women in the media, in art and in other fields and in education. we believe that gender stereotypes should be attacked as an educational project, as a civilization project and as a cultural project. we don't think that anything can ever change, as long as we pass a law that prohibits gender stereotypes, but as tradition, as history, as culture, every community has a certain kind of approach to social relations and relations between the sexes.
before we have the pretence and the imperative to be supported by our male colleagues, we should be supporting each other as women, but that's not happening, and i'll give you an example. the leadership election for the party i'm in is at the end of this month. two women from two different generations and one man entered the race. the moral, in my opinion, would have been for the rest of the women in office in the party to support one of these two candidates, but the president of the women's organization and the first vice president, who, by the way, have fiery feminist speeches, support the only man in the race. i wonder what kind of women's organization this is. she supports the one who vehemently opposed the implementation of the party's statute that provides for a 30% quota of women in all elections. i also wonder how it is possible that the epp vice-president, who has been nominated for this position thanks to the strong support of a woman, is also supporting the only man in the race.
in writing. − gender stereotypes continue to influence the distribution of roles between women and men at home, at work and in society in general. they support the need for long-term strategies to target women's access to labour market sectors where they are underrepresented, and stronger work-life balance measures for both women and men. the commission and the member states should also ensure that gender equality is respected in relation to labour market requirements and the employment potential of women in different professions, and at the same time ensure the exchange of good practice on gender equality as an educational tool.
in writing. − as the notion of equality can be cultivated in children from an early age and education based on the recognition of equality can teach them to combat gender stereotypes, i believe that the commission should support member states' actions to eliminate stereotypes and promote access to education and jobs for all, without being conditioned by stereotypes.
in writing. − conserving the environment and promoting sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy, are measures that underpin a union that looks to the best balance between the needs of people and the environment. the report on optimising the benefits of eu environmental action underlines that member states must continue to implement eu environmental legislation properly and fully, as non- or incomplete application of existing rules is not only illegal but also costly for society in the long term. i believe that ensuring a high level of environmental protection is one of the fundamental objectives of the union, which can bring benefits such as better living conditions through improved air quality, less noise and fewer health problems for european citizens. i argue that we need high standards of information and transparency on environmental legislation so that citizens have a better understanding of eu environmental policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because one of the fundamental objectives of the union is to ensure a high level of environmental protection. we need to focus on improving air quality, reducing noise and health problems. however, i regret the lack of data on the activities that are carried out at national, regional and local level. clear and coherent environmental legislation is needed. i would like to stress the extremely important role that the european environment agency can play in monitoring the environmental information collected in different areas of the union. i urge member states to take all necessary measures to conserve the environment and promote sustainable development.
in writing. − the european union has set itself an ambitious agenda for the transition to a robust, resource-efficient and low-carbon economy by 2050. to achieve this, we need clear, coherent and non-redundant environmental legislation, and commitment at all levels to its effective and timely implementation. the environment is the area where most breaches of european law have been found in the eu, and existing legislation has often been transposed ineffectively, either through late or insufficient implementation or through 'over-application'. there are many benefits to be gained from the proper implementation of eu environmental legislation and i therefore welcome the commission's concern to optimise the benefits of eu environmental action, to increase confidence by improving knowledge and to improve responsiveness. the transposition of environmental legislation can be optimised by intensifying dialogue between all stakeholders with a view to disseminating best practice among member states, regional and local authorities, and by raising awareness and engaging public opinion in order to generate a higher level of acceptance and understanding of the objective of european union legislation.
in writing. − i believe that the union will only achieve the desired results in environmental protection through the timely and correct implementation of community legislation by the member states and by regional and local authorities. the effective implementation of these policies can bring benefits to industry, for example by reducing administrative burdens, ensuring security of investment and, consequently, creating more jobs.
in writing. − i support this report as it underlines very well the need for more effective implementation of the eu’s environment measures. member states, respectively regional and local authorities are key actors in the development and transposition of eu environmental laws. a full and appropriate implementation of the laws can not only lead to savings for the eu, but it can also generate jobs.
in a european union with a diversified agriculture, a common dimension applied to all member states was tried. but in order to be able to talk about competitiveness, about support for agriculture for all member states, to be able to respond to the current challenges of food security and food security or climate change, we must support a convergence mechanism that better reflects the principle of fairness in the level of payments per hectare, to impose a fair and objective redesign, accepted by all member states, that allows the reduction of the discrepancies in direct payments at european level. a fair, fair, greener common agricultural policy, attractive to those who want to invest in agriculture, favourable to young people and women, a common agricultural policy which supports the rural dimension, covered by an appropriate budget, which does not tolerate a reduction, is part of what millions of farmers are waiting for. the vote on the negotiating mandates tomorrow shows that the european parliament is capable of providing solutions, that we are prepared to support agriculture at european level.
there's an agricultural expression that says, "where there are four farmers, there are five opinions". and on the reform of european agriculture, there are, indeed, divided opinions. i prefer to see the positive side first. simplified schemes for small farmers will support many households. secondly, support for young farmers is essential: without young people not only agriculture will disappear, but the village world itself. in romania, for example, a third of farmers are over 70 years old and only 1% are under 30. last but not least, i would add as another positive aspect, the strengthening of farmers' organisations. however, the texts we are voting on tomorrow are disappointing in terms of the convergence between subsidies granted in the eastern european countries and those received by farmers in western europe. parliament started this reform with generous principles, such as the principle of fairness or objective criteria. unfortunately, those principles were lost along the way. budgetary constraints are one argument: new member states receive more money, but the gaps are still too wide. however, i am optimistic about the future of agriculture in romania and the development opportunities offered by the new common agricultural policy.
tomorrow we will vote on a reform with very ambitious goals, but unfortunately with a budget far below what we expected. i hope that these budget cuts will not lead to a renationalisation of the common agricultural policy which will maintain the so-called two-speed european agriculture, because the stronger states will have more opportunities to support their own farmers. remarkably, however, for the first time, more attention is being given to small farmers, who are being relieved of bureaucratic burdens by a special program. i also appreciate that the new cap promotes more sustainable farming and that organic farming enjoys more substantial support. i would like to thank commissioner ciolos for his support and attention to these matters. the common agricultural policy must ensure that the vitality of rural areas is maintained by facilitating the generational change so necessary at this time. that's why the young farmers program should be mandatory in all states.
in writing. the common agricultural policy has played and continues to play a key role in the european union's policies and budget. the cap reform will introduce new elements that will support and lead to the creation of a fairer, more sustainable and more open model of agriculture for the diversity of our rural areas. the cap reform examines, among other things, the distribution of the agricultural budget equally between new and old member states, reducing red tape, a fair distribution of direct payments, increasing transparency on aid to farmers, encouraging farmers to adopt green methods, ensuring a fair price for farmers and the eu's position in the global competitive market. a valuable aspect of this proposal is the encouragement of young people to take up farming and to open a farm, given that youth unemployment has reached as high as 50% in some member states. at the same time, this proposal will lead to a strengthening of the position of farmers in the supply chain. all these measures will lead to greater stability for farmers and food security for the general public. the vote by parliament is a first step towards an agreement on a reformed, ambitious and pragmatic common agricultural policy.
unfortunately, this solution penalizes only some of the member states, including romania. i would point out that my country is discriminated against by the larger states of the union. such a reform should have proposed a sustainable system of distribution of mandates to each state. the number of mandates would thus not change each time a country becomes a member of the union. in the future, a formula will have to be identified that no longer affects only certain countries. also, the verification of demographic data will be very important, especially since in romania, in the 2011 census, many people were not even censused. thus, there was a difference of over 1 million people between the statistical estimates and the preliminary census data.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, good evening to everybody. i have the honour to address you in the name of the commission and in particular in the name of my colleague, algirdas semeta, who is responsible for this file. the objective of the proposed regulation on esa 2010 is to revise, update and improve the current european system of accounts, esa 95, in line with the recently updated international system of national accounts. it reflects the need for comparable high quality and up to date macroeconomic aggregates for the member states. this revision is a major project which will set up the national account standards for many years. at a european level, the esa is an essential tool for national accounts data used for major administrative purposes such as own resources, excessive deficit procedure and structural funds, and for the analysis of the coordination and convergence of member states’ economic policies. the revision of the esa has been based on a wide consultation of the national accounts experts and of users and producers of statistics in europe. we consider that the proposal is well-balanced in terms of user data needs and of the burden put on respondents and administrations. following fruitful discussions, a compromise text was agreed between the european parliament and the council with the aim of reaching agreement at first reading. we definitely support the compromise text, because it enables the commission to obtain the required data for its policies and to exercise its monitoring tasks, even if recital 16 includes elements that we consider as deviating from the common understanding of the european parliament, the council and the commission on delegated acts. the commission would therefore clearly state that it is of the view that article 290 of the treaty is to be interpreted as meaning that it is autonomous in the preparation and adoption of delegated acts. the standard recital on expert advice contained in the common understanding agreed between the three institutions is a reflection of that interpretation. the commission therefore regrets that recital 16 deviates from the common understanding. i would wholeheartedly like to thank the rapporteur, ms sharon bowles, for her deep involvement and a constructive approach to the proposal. thanks to an excellent cooperation between the three institutions, i believe that we have reached our common objective of setting up a very robust framework for harmonised and reliable national accounts data on which european union institutions, governments and economic and social operators can base their decisions. the commission will now concentrate its efforts on preparing the application of esa 2010, monitoring the full implementation by the member states of the agreed new framework so that the required statistical data are truly available and fulfilling its own reporting obligations to the european parliament and the council in this context. the commission is also very much looking forward to pursuing a fruitful dialogue with the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the european parliament, which is essential for the availability of high quality, transparent and trustworthy national accounts and other macroeconomic statistics for the benefit of sound policy making and of society at large.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank ms bowles for her excellent work on this report. we know very well what kind of problems we had with essential macroeconomic data reported by several countries: distorted budget deficits, hidden liabilities and lack of rules for reporting contingent liabilities. we need more transparent and accurate data and rules that are more harmonised with those of the major trading partners. the report which we discussed today is the result of long but successful trialogue work and it responds to our request. therefore, my political group will support this report.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and welcome the report, especially at a time when we find chemicals all around us in most of the goods we buy. as this report also points out, and as the world health organization supports, chemical pollutants affect the endocrine system, being one of the potential causes of the various diseases of this century - cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. there are hundreds of substances in our environment, but we have insufficient information about them. real measures are needed to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, including children and pregnant women. we should not ignore the negative impact of these substances on biodiversity either. i hope that together, by supporting this report, we will call on the commission to develop an ambitious and adequate eu strategy on endocrine disruptors.
researchers point out that endocrine disruptors are found in most of the items we use, from plastic items, tin cans, water bottles, clothing, cosmetics, to baby bottles and medical equipment. exposure to such substances increases the risk of birth defects in pregnant women. i consider that protecting women against the possible risks presented by endocrine disruptors to their reproductive health is of the utmost importance. on the other hand, there is a need for long-term monitoring studies of women's health at european level to assess the long-term and multi-generational effects of exposure to endocrine disruptors. as such, i support the rapporteur's proposal to give priority to funding research into the effects of endocrine disruptors on women's health.
the number of endocrine diseases has increased considerably in recent years. they mainly affect the reproductive system. one of the major causes is endocrine disruptors, which can be found in the composition of many materials and products that we use every day. it is important to identify the disturbances that affect human and animal health. however, animal testing should be kept to a minimum. we also need to focus on protecting groups more sensitive to external factors, such as children, young people and women of childbearing age. therefore, i support activities to reduce exposure to disruptors and to manage chemicals that are harmful to health. i believe that horizon 2020 will be able to facilitate research in laboratories and promote innovation in this field.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you to everybody who participated in the debate. i should maybe start by addressing the issue of the timing, which mr jo leinen mentioned. i fully agree that timing is crucial to defining the next steps and, as he rightly said, the 7th environmental action programme is one area in which this discussion should go on. i should also point out that we have recently adopted the road map for putting substances of very high concern onto the candidate list, and we have the plan that we would phase them out until 2020. of course, the work cannot stop at 2020, because we will always learn something new, but with the knowledge of today it is our belief that this should be our target to follow. on the question of the threshold, the issue at hand is whether endocrine disrupters should categorically be seen as having a safe level or not. that is the question. this is clearly one of the issues which i am looking into, not least because i am obliged to do so in the so-called reach endocrine review. the who-unep report recognises that the jury is still out on this and the question of scientific certainty has not yet been established, but it does conclude that, based on current knowledge, the answer is that it is likely that no safe threshold can be established. the endocrine society, a society of medical professionals specialised in the human endocrine system, also says that from a psychological perspective, endocrine disputers cannot have a threshold. however, research should certainly continue, and we should continue investing also in increasing knowledge on those issues. on the issue of criteria, you probably know that developments are still ongoing. we are expecting the technical reports from jrc and efsa by 15 march, and shortly thereafter we aim to finalise the criteria. based on the ongoing discussions, the who-ipcs definition seems to be a good starting point. after the criteria have been developed, the testing and information requirements of the relevant legislation will have to be reviewed as to whether they provide for identification of endocrine disrupting properties. the next comment which i would like to make is that mr zanoni nicely captured where the topic is actually going: on the one hand research, which we should continue and focus on, and on the other hand legislation, where it is absolutely seen at this moment that we have acquired enough knowledge for us to go in that direction, following, of course, the precautionary principle which is, by the way, a principle which is part of our treaties. to conclude: the report is really good. it strengthens my conviction, together with your discussions today, that on the basis of an overall assessment of the state of knowledge, the precautionary principle requires the commission and the legislators to take adequate measures to reduce human exposure to endocrine disruptors and to step up research efforts to further improve scientific knowledge on the impact of endocrine disrupters on human health. i can also reassure you that we are at full speed in the preparation on many areas which i mentioned. i would like, finally, to again thank the rapporteur, åsa westlund, for the excellent work which she has done.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much welcome the report. it is realistic and positive in its approach towards the migration and integration of third country nationals living in the eu. i would like to thank the rapporteur and everybody who has collaborated with her to make this a very excellent report. this is of course a very difficult topic to discuss today. we have an economic crisis with very high unemployment and people who see no future and are outside the labour market. at the same time, we have many migrant people living in the eu who are overqualified for the jobs they have or who do not manage to get into the labour market at all. however, as mrs hirsch rightly pointed out, despite this very difficult situation, we hear also employers from all over europe complaining that they cannot find skilled people. so it demands a great deal of pedagogy and political leadership to explain and handle all these issues. we should not balk at that. we should try to look at it in a constructive and pragmatic way. as mrs hirsch says in her report, integration is a challenge and it is a very difficult process both for migrants and the host society. it requires commitment from both sides. her report identifies some key considerations, as well as some areas where we can further develop policy at national and european level. on integration we agree, of course, that much more can be done. we can do more at local level, national level and at european level. basically, of course, integration occurs at local community level. the local actors know about local conditions and they have the contacts and skills. we cannot – and we should not – sit in brussels and integrate people. but we can of course put forward ideas, unite people, spread best practices and so on, and that is what we do. the focus must, very rightly, be on a bottom-up approach, encouraging and working with the key players, civil society, and the scientific and business communities at local level. instruments for knowledge exchange are very important. the commission is preparing an interactive map to be launched on the european web site on integration early this year which will show the work being carried out at local and regional level, hopefully in a user-friendly way. we will involve local authorities in the european integration forum, together with ngos and, as a proposal for the asylum and migration fund – the one we propose in the new mff – part of the funding will go directly to local and regional authorities. in the area of labour migration, the commission has launched an eu skills panorama, a website presenting qualitative and quantitative information on the short and medium-term skills needed, skills supply and skills mismatches. we have also taken initiatives to attract highly qualified and qualified migrants to the eu based on economic needs through the blue card directive and – as you know, this is currently being negotiated in parliament – the intra-corporate transferees. i will very shortly present to you a proposal for a students and researchers directive. the proposal on seasonal workers is also being discussed between the two co-legislators. this aims at improving the matching of labour market needs. mrs hirsch proposes in her report to set up a migration and mobility resource centre in partner third countries. that is a welcome potential tool for well-managed migration and for matching jobs and skills. we are also happy to see that the report welcomes what we are doing in the commission to establish a mechanism to exchange information and practice between the member states when they are concluding bilateral agreements on social security. i also very much welcome the report’s call for a more coordinated and coherent approach to the external dimension of social security coordination. this is in line with our communication. social security rights are very important for the successful integration of third country nationals. an important package of reciprocal social security rights is contained in the association agreements that we have with third countries in the neighbourhood. i would like to thank mrs hirsch once again for the report. it is a valuable contribution to the debate on integration and the social security aspect, both for third country nationals living in the eu and for eu citizens working outside. i believe that we can greatly benefit from the diversity brought to our societies by those who come to europe from elsewhere. as she also pointed out, europe has become statistically less attractive in the last year so we must make sure that we can attract the people who we want and who we need to come to europe. this does not mean ignoring the challenges, which are sometimes very difficult, in creating cohesive societies and living together, but it is a spur to greater efforts to create conditions for well-integrated societies, which are the basis for maximising the social, cultural and economic advantages of that diversity where every individual can fully fulfil his or her potential.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − i drafted the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs on the integration of migrants. the opinion highlights the impact of the integration of migrants on the union's relations with its external partners. we have thus underlined the need to standardise migration and mobility dialogues, recommended the establishment of mobility partnerships with third countries and, where this is not possible, common agendas for migration and mobility. i also said that it was essential to introduce a standard social security clause. the opinion encourages the european union to set an example in the portability of social rights and to promote the coordination of social security with other regions of the world within the wto. moreover, the opinion highlights the benefits that circular migration can bring when it comes to relations with third countries and especially in post-conflict situations, when the diaspora can support the reconstruction of the home country. finally, we stressed the need for cooperation with third countries to help them implement the common european asylum system.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms hirsch, and all the other shadows who worked on this report. today we know two facts very well: the union needs stability, growth and jobs, but the union is also ageing and it needs migrants. we need the best talents from everywhere to boost our research capabilities, innovation and competitiveness. if we need migrants, we also need a coherent immigration policy consistent with other european policies. our first goal is integrating migrants. the main pillars of this integration are giving migrants access to education and health programmes, and fair competition for obtaining jobs. there are a few concerns that i need to raise regarding the report. firstly, there is the convergence between the legal requirement of the posted workers directive, immigration policy in asylum-seeking, and the present subject. as long as the revision of the posted workers directive is still under discussion at this point in time, it is risk-avoidance to insert requests for legal modifications with respect to equal pay for the same job. this house is still deliberating the approach to be taken for the revision of this directive. additionally, one needs to consider the cost and benefits of linking immigration and asylum-seeking with the requirements presented by the hirsch report. we support a fair and competitive environment. however, we cannot forget the existing community clause, as well as the existing requirements for transitional barriers imposed on european workers. secondly, the immigration of migrants needs to be gradual in order to be effective and to counteract negative spillovers. i do not agree that migrants arriving in a host country should be granted all of the same rights as a citizen from the very beginning.
i welcome the interest in integrating migrants from third countries into the union's labour market, especially in the context of an ageing european population, but i think that before we think about the situation of workers coming from outside the union, we should be concerned about european workers, because there is an external dimension to migration, but also an internal dimension. i would like to draw attention to the fact that romanian and bulgarian citizens continue to face restrictions on the labour market in several member states, even though six years have passed since accession. the european commission has shown that the impact of labour market liberalisation on member states is small. despite this, romanian workers need a work permit in nine member states. in addition, the uk is trying to find ways to prevent romanian citizens from accessing the labour market, even after 2014.
the ageing process at european level will cause a significant increase in labour force shortages in the coming decades. this shortage of more or less qualified staff can also be covered by integrating migrants, a large segment of whom are women, into the labour market in their countries of residence. they can play a very important role, because migrant women not only offer great potential for the labour market, but they often play an important role in educating children and transmitting standards and values. i believe that the member states and the commission must develop education and communication programmes to inform migrant women of their rights and responsibilities and take measures to significantly strengthen their legal and social position, to prevent any discrimination and to use their potential contribution to economic and social development.
i want to express my total disagreement with the cheap populism by which some parties, especially in certain countries, seek to gain political capital by adopting a political discourse based on the denigration of immigrants. how can we talk about their integration into the labour market when even immigrants from within the european union are treated with such contempt in the member states where they work? at a time when we have serious demographic problems and external economic competitiveness is suffering more than ever, i recommend that european governments take all necessary measures to integrate migrants and improve the coherence of economic, social, educational and healthcare policies, do their utmost to attract skilled workers to correct the labour market deficit, show wisdom by putting aside these political discourses that promote hatred of migrants and, instead, make known the positive effects of them on the european market.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is indeed a very important debate. mr preda from the committee on foreign affairs mentioned the external dimension. this is of course extremely important as well. we have mobility partnerships already with cape verde, moldova, georgia and armenia. just last week i went to morocco where we reached political agreement on a mobility and migration partnership with morocco as well. talks are ongoing with tunisia and jordan. so discussing with these countries too the items we are discussing now is, of course, an important way of increasing our relationship with these countries. as the debate has shown, migration and integration are not easy topics, especially in the current economic context. but it is important to exert greater efforts for a better coordinated policy in order to make europe more attractive, a better place to come and work, but also a place where human dignity is respected. migrants can contribute to growth and development, to our society and, as we know, our societies are ageing and people are turning elsewhere to other more attractive continents and we need to address this. we must keep in mind that migrants are not a moveable asset responding only to economic incentives. that would not be effective, nor is it humane. when evaluating the attractiveness of the european union, labour market migrants evaluate the wages, the working conditions, social security, tax regimes, educational systems, administrative burden and the societies’ attitudes towards migrants as a whole, as well as security and long-term career and residence prospects. also, those who are already living in our countries are, of course, seeking access to work and to language – which are key components of successful integration – as well as a generally welcoming society. all this is extremely complex, and the report shows this in a very clear and transparent manner. that is why i would encourage the plenary to adopt this report as a basis for a better discussion, and for better cooperation and understanding on how we can advance in this area.
in writing. economic globalisation is accompanied by social globalisation, with employees more willing than ever to change their country of residence. although europe defines itself as a continent of tolerance and proclaims the right of citizens to work anywhere on its territory, romanian workers are not treated equally. but we recognize the shortage of labour in the union and, to counter it, we are opening the doors to workers from third countries. i would remind you that in 2013, several member states still impose restrictions on the employment of romanian citizens, while romania offers highly qualified employees. the fact that we have a shortage of workers in the eu, but at the same time a rising unemployment rate, should cause us to rethink our education systems, to adapt them to the projected demand of the labour market. there is therefore a need for greater coordination between eu countries. personally, i support the introduction of a common european system for identifying labour demand and objective criteria for assessing qualifications, to better manage the migration of workers. i also call for a clear distinction between the concepts of migration and immigration, favouring in particular the mobility of eu citizens, before opening the labour market to third-country nationals.
the integration of migrants into the european labour markets represents a solution for the future of economic and social developments of the eu. the gains that the eu can achieve through a better integration of migrants and on our labour markets can fully overpass the negative effects of labour demand and supply mismatches. our employers need well-qualified human capital, and the increased number of individuals in search of a job can satisfy that job offer. immigrants need to be granted fair possibilities to job competition in order to avoid a social burden on national governments. additionally, migrants need to prove willingness for embracing the laws and culture of the host countries before they are granted the same rights as the citizens. a fair balance is needed between the efforts of the host country for better integrating the migrants, and the efforts of migrants for becoming integrated into that country. the integration process is a two way street. both the national authorities and the migrants need to work together to obtain that aim. ultimately, if correct measures are taken, the integration process can become beneficial: migrants can find a better life standard and employers can find a suitable workforce.
austerity measures introduced to mitigate the negative consequences of the economic crisis usually affect the most vulnerable and powerless social groups. i would find it useful if the commission could encourage member states to promote greater social inclusion and labour market participation of people with disabilities by developing recommendations and best practices. i think this is important because i am well aware that the new member states have even greater problems in this area than the european average, and that is why the commission's guidelines and increased vigilance are even more necessary. we must not allow the needs of the disabled to be overlooked in the name of the urgent need for crisis management.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the eu disability strategy – which you know very well as it has been in place since 2010 – helps member states to promote social inclusion. even if it is the member states which are basically responsible for delivering on health and social services, the commission helps them move forward on this. for example, take the level of employment where there are actions such as the employment of persons with autism spectrum disorders. we have a special programme to help member states integrate this very specific disability into normal working programmes. the commission is trying to provide the member states with solutions and best practices on very specific issues, but of course the commission also has to make its own contribution. that is why my colleague commissioner andor has presented the social investment package which the commission uses to guide the member states to invest the funds which are available in a much more efficient way towards human capital and social cohesion. to answer mr kósa’s question, the strategy will be reviewed this year and there will be a report on the application of the strategy put before this house, covering both the positive elements and what we have not managed to do. when i say ‘we’ i mean the european union and the member states. but of course what we are doing is rechannelling the structural funds – not only today’s structural funds but also tomorrow’s – because we have identified in the regulatory package for structural funds for 2014-2020 several measures addressing the needs of disabled people, among others. one of the members of this house asked about the transition from institutional to community-based care. this is a problem in many of our member states, as is accessibility, and here i have told the house that there will be a proposal on the table. the eu structural funds help member states in these areas. the needs-tailored models of care and access to personal assistance are within the structural funds and can be utilised to finance these actions. i have also said – and i really do mean it – that we must look differently at boosting services in those areas. with the ageing population we will be in great need of services and a whole new development of jobs can be generated too. i count on parliament to help us and the member states to ensure that these jobs are for the good of growth and are not jobs considered to be minor jobs. they are very important jobs. i would like to thank the rapporteur for drawing attention to a very difficult problem and also to thank all colleagues in this house who have spoken in the debate. the commission will continue to work on this with your help.
in writing. the current fiscal consolidation measures that member states are implementing will help to overcome the crisis and restart growth. but public spending cuts should not affect people with disabilities. member states should ensure that persons with disabilities receive care that enables them to integrate as fully as possible into society. equal access to the labour market is also very important at a time when unemployment is rising in many countries. by further integrating persons with disabilities, member states could contribute to the employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in romania last year there were almost 700 thousand people with disabilities. however, numerous cases of fraudulent obtaining of disability certificates have been uncovered. national authorities must therefore assess cases of persons with disabilities as accurately as possible in order to prevent possible fraud.
in writing. the agreement reached in the council on the long-term budget of the european union is deeply disappointing and sets a dangerous precedent. this is the first time in the union's history that member states are calling for spending cuts, and this is happening in a period of recession, when unemployment is at an extraordinary high and economic growth is lagging behind. it is legitimate to reject a multiannual financial framework, which would be a heavy legacy for future generations, both by imposing long-term austerity and by potentially producing a structural deficit. the union budget means creating jobs through investment in development, infrastructure, research, education and health. we cannot abandon the flagship programmes of the european union, which have brought significant benefits to our citizens, such as erasmus. the renegotiation of the financial framework is therefore a necessity.
in writing. the european council of 14-15 march 2013 has as its main objectives: to analyse the progress made by member states on the country-specific recommendations and commitments under the euro plus pact, as well as recommendations on the national reform programmes and the stability and convergence programmes. the european council will also discuss and propose guidelines for the implementation of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that the main concerns of european citizens are related to the alarming increase in unemployment, with no immediate prospects of recovery, and to the deterioration in the quality of life and, above all, in social conditions. member states and the eu need to invest in the revitalization of european industry. without a strong european industry capable of providing high quality products and jobs across europe, the eu's competitiveness is threatened. the union needs investment in industry, innovation and the use of new technologies, investment that can create jobs in europe and ensure its international competitiveness. the dominance of financial markets has led to the pursuit of profit, often to the detriment of final consumers and the quality of products and services. we call on the commission and the member states to adopt measures to encourage the industrial and social development of the union and to regulate more strictly the role of financial markets.
the situation in egypt was discussed in plenary exactly three months ago. i was warning then that the egyptian revolution was in danger and that society had never been so divided. unfortunately, we have to admit that things have not changed and that we are talking about a steady deterioration of the human rights situation as well as a deepening of social divisions. the death sentences handed down in the port said trial a year ago, the brutal repression of the demonstrations in recent days, the cancellation of the legislative elections, the declaration of a state of emergency in several localities, the worsening situation of women, the pressures on civil society organizations, all of this is deeply worrying. two years after the fall of the mubarak regime and nine months after the election of president morsi, egypt's political transition is in question, as it is marked by violence, contestation and polarization. at the same time, the signals we are receiving from civil society organisations are that europe should not abandon egypt. on the contrary, we must be present and use the tools at our disposal to ensure that an inclusive political process, based on genuine national dialogue and the involvement of all democratic political forces, finally begins. it is time to talk less about more for more and to put it into practice.
the aggressive statements by north korea, culminating recently in the announcement of the termination of the armistice agreement with the republic of korea, the breakdown of communication between the two states and the threat of nuclear attack are deeply worrying. the dprk must temper its bellicose tendencies and avoid a deterioration in its relations with the international community. at stake is the well-being of its citizens, who suffer from hunger, poverty, depend on international aid to survive and are economically and politically isolated. the solution to the impasse facing north korea lies in dialogue and peaceful conduct. it must resume the moratorium on missile tests and give up nuclear weapons by joining the nuclear nonproliferation treaty. as my predecessors have said, it is in china's interest and responsibility as a permanent member of the un security council and north korea's principal partner to pursue the maintenance of stability in the region. it must convince pyongyang to resume the six-party talks essential for a peaceful settlement of the situation on the korean peninsula. at the same time, i believe that the european union must also maintain channels of communication with the dprk.
i'm sorry the vice president is no longer with us. i want to bring to the debate the problems facing the more than 525 000 palestinian refugees currently in syria. if, before the conflict began, they were one of the poorest communities, now palestinian refugees are among those who suffer the most. available figures suggest over 1,000 of them died, another 200,000 palestinian refugees were displaced within the territory. the relevant un agency is actively responding to the needs of palestinian refugees, but needs additional funding. since the beginning of the syrian violence, lebanon has so far received over 20,000 palestinian refugees from that country, making the situation extremely difficult to manage. any steps to resolve the humanitarian crisis in syria must also take into account the palestinian refugees. let's not forget that these people are twice refugees: once from their own country, and now from the countries that have welcomed them.
mr president, i did not expect this, because there was someone else before me. i do not want to forget that the malian crisis was first and foremost a political and security crisis. it was only then that it became a military crisis. but it is true that all these aspects are combined. as far as the military phase is concerned, it seems that a certain lull is still approaching. the french minister of defense said it would take three more weeks to secure the northeast. it is obvious that we must ask ourselves the question of security in the medium and long term. my colleague mr danjean has already touched on this subject and talked about the need for real european cooperation. the possibility of replacing the misma with a un mission was also discussed. i saw the ad yesterday. i'm a little disappointed to hear that the mandate for this mission won't come until april. i think we can speed things up. the political question is also raised. my colleagues have already spoken about it. i agree with them that the elections must be held as soon as possible, in july if possible, as originally announced. the elections should give priority to the ambition of genuine reconciliation, including, of course, the tuaregs. the union, as the commissioner has said, can help this electoral process, with technical assistance and also an election observation mission.
mr president, i believe the only real urgent issue at present in our relations with ukraine is bringing to fruition the association agreement we have negotiated with that important neighbour who is not yet a member. it is a well-known principle of diplomatic negotiations that nothing is agreed before everything is agreed. in this case, either we have an agreement and that means that everything is included in it, or there are things which were not yet agreed and we have to go on with the negotiations. but to attach to a bilateral agreement unilateral extracontractual conditionalities is unprofessional, arrogant and counterproductive. this is not policy, but politics. we cannot promote our values in ukraine by interfering in the petty management of the country or by encouraging the internal opposition’s blockage tactics. to that end, we must first build a deep political partnership allowing for the harmonisation of our strategic interest. otherwise, we might eventually learn that ukraine did not fulfil our conditionalities but it signed another agreement with another partner which does not cherish our values. that would be a geostrategic disgrace.
late last year, hillary clinton was afraid of the resovietization of eastern europe. the intimidation of the opposition in ukraine and the treatment of yulia tymoshenko confirm this. also, last summer, the socialist alliance in romania trampled on the rule of law, without taking into account the fact that we are an eu member country, and not an ex-soviet republic. by a strange coincidence, on the other side of the prut, the socialists and the communists have succeeded in overthrowing the pro-european government in chisinau. they thus jeopardised the conclusion of free trade and association agreements with the union. the filat government was a successful government, the only one that managed to complete the long series of reforms needed to bring the country out of isolation and towards the eu. the costs of stopping the integration process will be borne by the bessarabians. dear politicians, at the 12th hour, continue the pro-european path.
mr. belder, i must congratulate you on your balanced report. sure, i understand and support our aspirations, i understand and promote our values, but i fear, my fellow citizens, that they will be crushed, once again, by the great wall of china. i don't want to talk about what divides us, we are two different worlds and two different cultures: neither confucius is aristotle, nor deng xiaoping is václav havel, but i want to talk to you about what connects us. it links us to the silk road, it links us to the commercial interest in history, it links us to a vision of modernity and globalization that goes back to deng xiaoping. he launched the first agenda 2020, and we took it over in the european union. it is important that this economic and strategic partnership is viable, because as long as we are talking and regulating in brussels the thickness of the glass from which glasses are produced in our countries, the european union, our citizens will also drink the water and wine from glasses produced in china. these are the things i think we should talk about and on the basis of these things we should think about a strategic partnership and regulate it. because, in fact, herein lies the great challenge: how viable are we as individuals in the face of globalization? i believe that if we work together in a good faith partnership, we will have a chance together, beyond the geographical dimension and beyond values and aspirations. but i would like to talk about a second thing that connects us: the security situation in which china has engaged and supported a global security project. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner füle, this report comes at a very important time for relations between the eu and china. today these relations are probably at their most significant level ever, and it is absolutely necessary to continue this trend, but also to engage the new european leadership, which will probably be elected next year, with the newly elected chinese leadership. i believe the eu must have at the heart of its relations with china a position which is driven by pragmatism, and by this i mean that we need to keep in mind that we are two different powers, with different cultures and systems, but with a lot of common challenges for which cooperation can offer greater benefits than any differences might offer. we also need to have a coherent approach. i think it was a slip that, according to the last paragraph, the resolution should be sent to the taiwanese government and to the taiwanese legislative yuan, because, as rightly stated in the resolution, the eu adheres to the one china policy. i therefore ask the rapporteur to correct this and make sure that the resolution is coherent from that point of view.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur first of all. i also want to thank ioannis kasoulides, who was the shadow rapporteur of the group. i worked very well with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, and i was able to amend a few points in the report. i think it's important to point out that china's recent economic development is positive in that it has allowed a significant part of the population to have a higher standard of living. at the same time, let's not forget, china is still a party-state controlled society, where freedom, including economic freedom, is never fully guaranteed. i am glad that the resolution states that human rights are universal, inalienable, indivisible and interdependent. as you know, from beijing, we sometimes learn that there are different ways of looking at human rights, depending on the culture. during my current term, i have participated in the drafting of five emergency resolutions on human rights in china, and i regret that issues such as the death penalty remain extremely sensitive for beijing. finally, i welcome the support expressed by china for the extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti). it's a matter i've dealt with. for this initiative to be successful, it needs the support of all states.
china is now the third largest economy in the world, behind the european union and the united states. the european union is china's first trade partner and china is the union's second trade partner. on the other hand, europe is one of the top five foreign direct investors in china: €17.8 billion in 2011. conversely, chinese investment flows into europe increased significantly despite the crisis, reaching eur 3,1 billion in 2011. it is only right that we at union level should pay particular attention to relations with this country, relations which must be in accordance with the principle of partnership based on reciprocity. given the huge potential in china for agriculture, it is beneficial for both sides that there is an eu-china agreement in this area, signed by commissioner cioloş in 2012, which is intended to strengthen cooperation in agriculture and rural development.
china's growing role in the global economy and politics is the most talked about issue, but it seems that we must continue to speak out on human and minority rights issues to make sure that the chinese society undergoing major changes is sensitive to abuses and that the chinese leaders hear the voice of their own people. i would like to emphasize the findings of the report which relate to tibetan autonomy. the chinese government will not achieve lasting stability through forced assimilation, cultural destruction, or repressive police and security methods. and it's not going to create good relations between the chinese, tibetan and uighur people, but only if it takes seriously all the grievances of the indigenous people in order to really establish a shared responsibility for the well-being of the two autonomous provinces. i think this idea applies not only to china's policy towards tibet and the uygur autonomous region, but also to some european countries.
the eu-china strategic partnership strengthens good cooperation based on common interests and mutual understanding. we need to establish long-term cooperation so that we can coordinate the eu 2020 strategy with china's five-year plans. the eu-china summits have made a significant contribution to the readjustment of the 1985 china-europe agreement on trade and economic cooperation to the new conditions. but there are still steps to be taken. chinese investors complain of the obstacles they face due to the diversity of european markets. on the other hand, although the chinese market has strong potential, european investment in china is very scarce. the eu remains an important and indispensable partner of china in economic relations. china is also a challenge and an opportunity for the eu. in conclusion, i believe that european unity in diversity and the new ecological civilization promoted by china have many common points which can strengthen our relations.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you on behalf of president barroso, under whose remit the cooperation and verification mechanism falls, for this opportunity to set out the commission’s approach to this measure. when romania and bulgaria joined the european union in 2007, the council recognised that certain weaknesses remained in the areas of judicial reform and corruption and – in the case of bulgaria – organised crime. the concern was that these weaknesses could prevent an effective application of european union laws, policies and programmes, and that they would prevent romanians and bulgarians from enjoying their full rights as european union citizens. the council therefore decided to set up the cvm: four benchmarks for romania and six benchmarks for bulgaria were set out to help the commission to chart progress. the commission has regularly reported on progress, making recommendations setting out where further measures are needed in the two member states. last summer, in the fifth year of the cvm, the commission decided to produce a longer-term assessment. these reports concluded that some of the key building blocks were in place, particularly in terms of laws and institutions, so the focus has shifted to filling the gaps: implementation and the ownership needed to maintain the momentum of reform. around the time of the july report, important questions were raised about the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary in romania. the commission made a number of specific recommendations to romania and undertook to look again at these issues at the end of the year. the report adopted in january made clear that romania had implemented several – but not all – of these recommendations. it made other recommendations on points where further progress is needed. the commission believes that the cvm has proved to be an effective driver of reform. it has had a tangible impact in supporting reform and many of its recommendations have inspired the positive steps taken in the two member states over the past five years. however, it has to be recognised that this is a process which often needs deep societal change. it is not realistic to expect quick results. of course, there have been some misgivings expressed in bulgaria and romania about the cvm process. this has not been helped by the tendency of some member states to make a political link between schengen and the cvm. i would like to underline here, once again, that the commission does not support this link. the schengen process has its own tools to assess readiness. the cvm is not designed to duplicate or replace these. i am pleased to know that the council has once again this week welcomed the commission’s methodology, its analysis and its recommendations. the commission’s conclusions on the cvm are firmly in the mainstream of european opinion; for example, many of the issues raised in the commission’s report have been echoed in the venice commission of the council of europe. most importantly, this work is recognised by bulgarians and romanians themselves. last summer the eurobarometer poll showed that clear majorities in both member states thought that the european union had an important role in addressing these issues and had a positive effect. over seven out of the ten in both also believed that the european union action should continue until they reached a standard comparable to that of other member states. the commission remains in close contact with the bulgarian and romanian authorities. we will produce our next reports towards the end of this year. we will also continue our close monitoring and ongoing dialogue to reinforce the process and the reforms, and to help the two member states to meet the objectives of the mechanism.
on behalf of the epp group. the introduction of the cvm allowed romania to join the european union in 2007, not in 2008. the monitoring and reporting by the commission has had positive effects on the justice system and on the fight against corruption. the reports were objective and had a positive trend. in early 2012, a point was reached where the discontinuation of the mechanism could be discussed. the events of summer 2012 have cancelled this possibility and brought into question, in addition to the attack on the rule of law, the idea that the reforms in romania are reversible. the 2013 report presented, alongside progress, negative elements: ministers under criminal investigation, the appointment of the people's advocate, the non-implementation of court decisions. the general affairs council, in its conclusions of 11 march, speaks of the responsibility of ministers and parliamentarians to set an example in respecting integrity. four member states have recently called for a mechanism to ensure that fundamental values are respected in the member states. the request mentions, as a last resort, the suspension of european funds, which, if it happened, would be an economic catastrophe for romania. to avoid such reactions, the only solution is for the current government to stop its statements against the european institutions and to take a responsible approach to eliminating the shortcomings mentioned in the latest reports. in the future, i hope the effects of cvm will only be felt in the areas monitored. the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr. member, just a few moments ago, commissioner füle said: the commission does not support, does not accept, rejects linking the schengen accession mechanism to the cvm. you just came in and confirmed that you support this position. i take it that the pdl, which you represent, has an anti-european commission attitude?
reply to a question submitted under the 'blue card' procedure. mr boştinaru, i spoke in romanian - i hope you understand this language - and i said, finally, in the future, i hope that the effects of cvm will only be felt in the areas monitored.
the cooperation and verification mechanism for romania has recently been politicized and diverted from its true objectives by disinformation in the european public space, by members of the liberal democratic party and even by the president of romania. i want to assure, once again, both this parliament and the european commission, that the current romanian government aims to increase the independence of the judiciary and to respect all cvm conditionalities. there is no doubt about the romanian authorities' commitment to respect and strengthen the rule of law, as demonstrated by the measures promoted by the usl government. if the european union is a community of law, the commission, which defends this legal order, should promote an objective approach to cvm, based on a set of clear rules and conditionalities, so that this instrument can no longer be hijacked, depending on political contexts.
on behalf of the alde group. i am pleased that this statement was made by commissioner füle, who stated in a previous debate that he is not a supporter of selective justice. we are not in favour of selective justice either, commissioner, and i am not saying this to you, but to those who are in favour of this type of justice, mrs reding and mr barroso. we are not dealing with a real cooperation and verification mechanism, because in the case of romania, this mechanism is called the 'verification mechanism'. we are not dealing with a legal mechanism, which is sui generis, because it has no deadline between the contracting parties, it has no methodology, which you are now talking about being fine-tuned, it has only a discretionary, partisan political vision, generated by the interests of a political group in power in romania. in these circumstances, we believe that we should be talking about a democratic deficit in the european union, not about the situation in bulgaria and romania. we are equal partners in the european union, democracy means common rules and standards for all member states, not privileged partnerships where some dictate to others. because this is happening in this cooperative mechanism. how do you explain, commissioner, that we are asked to incriminate the fact that the press dares to present publicly situations that put judges in difficulty? it is against echr practice, against any european rule, against any democratic rule. but that is what the european union is asking us to do. and i think we need to talk about our own democratic deficit, not the two states we're monitoring. how do you explain, commissioner, and i would like you to tell president barroso, that we are always judged by criteria which have no basis and no viability in the treaties? we are always judged by practices that are not common to european standards of justice and the administration of justice. we do not have a common acquis, we are culturally different, we have a totally different legal and legal tradition and this is an area of real subsidiarity. we cannot be forced to dictate a formula unless we accept it. but we will not accept it for much longer, commissioner, and you must convey this to president barroso. that's enough! the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mrs norica nicolai if the party she represents has no replacement for the investigated minister of criminal affairs, mr fenechiu, who is currently in the government of romania and who was incriminated by the mcv report.
reply to a question submitted under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to remind mr preda of what jean monet said: european integration is not for governments and ministers, it is for european citizens. this mechanism is not addressed to the government of romania, but to the romanian citizens. and from that standpoint, i consider the question absolutely out of place, as is the assertion in the report, and i refuse to answer.
mr president, at the birth date of the cvm, romania and bulgaria had reasonably improvable judiciary systems. six years later, the rule of law in romania is in jeopardy, if not in ruins. the cvm is illegal since it has no base in the treaties or in the acquis communautaire. the cvm is discriminatory since it is only being applied to two member states. it will not even apply to the future member state of croatia. the cvm is structurally abusive, since it does not have a fixed time frame, a firm list of objectives, clear criteria for measuring progress, a fair and effective system of sanctions or any means of correcting incorrect assessments. moreover, the commission has used it to press for the replacement of ministers, and to impose specific chief prosecutors and even the national ombudsman. the cvm lacks transparency: the commission has constantly refused to disclose the sources of the misrepresentations circulated in its reports. the cvm was misused by the commission to discredit the parliament, to strip parliamentarians of their seats, to limit the freedom of speech, the freedom of the media, the right to a fair trial and even the independence of the judiciary. the cvm was used to push certain judiciary decisions in particular cases. the cvm inflicted heavy structural damage. the judges went on strike to protest against the politicised supreme council of magistrates and the parliament is in open conflict with the judicial authorities. all candidates under judicial accusation won this year’s parliamentary elections overwhelmingly. this is not because romanians are casual about corruption, but because they do not trust the judiciary shaped by the cvm. therefore the cvm is dead; romanians’ and bulgarians’ rights in the european union should no longer be limited, but this is not only about romanians and bulgarians, it is about the credibility of the european union project. one has to acknowledge that and move forward. this is my last sentence, mr president: when a patient does not respond to treatment, one does not change the patient, one changes … (the president cut off the speaker)
my colleague probably wanted to ask mr. arlacchi if it's true that he's mr. ponta's advisor. i too would like to welcome the fact that we are having this debate in the european parliament's plenary, although at a much too late hour, and i would also like to welcome the fact that together all the romanian meps have made a common front to force this subject onto the agenda. the cvm is a support to those countries that need to make progress in order to align with european standards. for romania, a country that lived 50 years under communism and a long period of transition, the mechanism of cooperation and verification was like a medicine given to a sick patient who wanted to get well. a country cannot develop without an independent and healthy judiciary! a country cannot prosper without the trust of its citizens and external partners! and that trust comes when the institutions of the state are not corrupt and work for its citizens. as the latest cvm report says, romania has made progress. unfortunately, these advances have only been made in the institutional area: dna, ani, csm, iccj. the political area hangs like a millstone, with major problems still to be solved. this is also clear from the general affairs council conclusions, which were adopted by consensus by all the member states and with the participation of the representative of the romanian state. and i would quote: "it is the responsibility of ministers and parliamentarians to set an example in matters of integrity". but in romania, some of them defy public opinion and common sense. they are very well known (...) (the president interrupts)
it is clear that the cooperation and verification mechanism is an exception to the rules of the functioning of the union, because it concerns only two states, romania and bulgaria, and the criteria by which they are judged are increasingly relative. the objectives of the mechanism have expanded over time and from cooperation to a mechanism with strong political connotations. i believe that this discrimination must end and that all member states must be treated equally. real progress requires a genuine partnership between the european commission and romania, which makes sincere efforts to meet its commitments. i ask the commission to be more transparent, to consult the romanian side and to return to the strictly technical objective for which the cvm was designed. it is time for bilateral clarification of the objective of the mechanism and the evaluation criteria, and for the establishment of a timetable leading to the termination of monitoring. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for pointing out that the cvm cannot be linked to schengen, as some countries are trying to do for internal political reasons.
every romanian citizen has asked himself, at least once, the question: why was the cvm created? the answer is known here in parliament: for the rule of law to become an effective reality in romania. it was a hope, but also a commitment, in january 2007 when romania joined the union. unfortunately, even today, six years later, we cannot speak of such an actual reality. the rule of law has many opponents in bucharest, and the toughest is the prime minister of the government. the socialist victor ponta does not want to assume the requirements of the rule of law. he described the demands in the last mcv report as partisan attacks, unnecessary, inaccurate. these requests are, in fact, all in favour of romanian citizens. it is good, not bad, to have a government without corruption; it is good, not bad, for mps to be equal to other citizens before the law; it is good, not bad, for constitutional debate to seek the broadest consensus; it is good, not bad, for prosecutors to investigate acts of corruption. i've just quoted some of the requirements of the cvm report, which was confirmed by the general affairs council on monday. victor ponta prefers to treat it, however, as an attack by foreigners, aided by traitors to the homeland. the specter of nationalism haunts, here it is, romania. in fact, to understand the situation, you have to know that the romanian prime minister has a personal war with the principle of the rule of law, according to which the laws govern, not the people. indeed, when victor ponta was accused of plagiarism, the minister of education in the government he was leading at the time dissolved the commission that indicted the head of government. then, after the university of bucharest decided that ponta's thesis was plagiarized, another education minister refused to revoke the prime minister's doctorate. the other day, the current minister of education proposed that the rectors should no longer be able to decide anything about plagiarism. when the rules are changed to cover up a politician's fraud, we have jungle, not law. since the installation of victor ponta as prime minister, unfortunately, the rule of law in bucharest is under government siege. this justifies the maintenance of the cvm. the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149 (8)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. commissioner, you said that in the cvm there are four objectives for romania. i want to ask my colleague, cristian preda, if he wants to introduce a new objective for romania, which should be called victor ponta and if he thinks that, by the statements made, he brings added value to his country and is, in fact, the voice of the citizens and not of the party he represents.
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. i think we do have a big problem in romania, and that is the problem that mrs. dancila summed up by quoting the prime minister's name. because unfortunately, we have a blind majority in bucharest, self-confident, because it is very large and who thinks they can afford anything, including giving loyalty ratings to citizens and members of other parties. it's a totalitarian culture, which makes me personally think that we need an alternative to bucharest.
i regret that the socialists and liberals see the european institutions as their enemies. the question, though, is, why? because the european commission wants to be the guarantor of democracy and the guarantor of respect for the principles of the rule of law and because they fail to respect the principles of the rule of law as a member country of the european union? i regret that mrs. reding has become the number one enemy of the ponta government. i regret that 11 measures were taken at the meeting with mr barroso, president of the european commission, and only four were implemented. such a competence cannot guarantee the introduction of democracy in a state governed by the rule of law which has been accepted on the last hundred metres, without respecting all the criteria related to justice, in the european union. as for the cvm, i would like to say that it cannot be linked to romania's entry into the schengen area.
from the content of the last report, we must note, commissioner füle, a few things. first, we must agree that the role and purpose of the cvm has been substantially altered from its launch to the last report. to prevent this in the future, i would suggest that you reflect on: 1. remaining within the initial, or technical, framework of a mechanism for measuring the progress of the functioning of the judiciary in romania and bulgaria; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary and financial resources allocated to the community are used to finance the necessary measures. 3. establishing a framework and timetable for the elimination of the cvm for the two countries. any delay, any extension of this mechanism turns it into a discretionary mechanism, which is detrimental to their interests as member states of the european union and to the credibility of the union in my country.
an important debate, a debate that should have been held a long time ago but better late than never! we are talking about a mechanism that has no deadline, that has no working methodology, we are talking about a mechanism that has modified in the last six years the four conditionalities, adding new areas, and which has introduced new conditionalities. because we do not have european standards in the legal system, it can be prolonged indefinitely, which in my opinion is profoundly unacceptable. i therefore ask the european commission to provide a working methodology and, above all, to provide a clear timetable for the closure of this mechanism, which has become, as has been well said and i repeat to reinforce this, more of a verification mechanism and much less of a cooperation mechanism, an intensely politicized mechanism, a source of political attacks, as was also proved tonight by the unacceptable and shameful attacks by mr preda on the prime minister of romania.
i too am concerned about the tendency to make a mechanism of cooperation and verification, which is intended to be technical and apolitical, permanent, but which, as my colleagues have said, does not contain a precise working methodology either in the cooperation or in the monitoring aspects. in practice, cooperation with national authorities proves difficult, as there is no common denominator for monitoring democratic progress. at the same time, during the six years of monitoring, the european commission's conditionalities have undergone major changes, extending to new areas. thus, the cvm has become an instrument of internal political pressure and a pretext to justify the populist and anti-european decision to block romania's accession to the schengen area. i find it regrettable that romania and bulgaria are found to be the main culprits for the problems caused in the european union by the effects of the crisis and the incompetence of some governments to manage it. that's why i'm asking the european commission to stop monitoring romania so that my country can join, de facto, the european union.
maintaining the democratic and open character of european societies is not a step-by-step task. the democratic slide in romania last summer shows that monitoring compliance with the rule of law is an ongoing effort, in which we all need to be directly involved. it is not just the new members of the union; practice shows that the abandonment of democratic norms and the departure from the rule of law are possible at any time. equally important is the maintenance of an effective formula for combating corruption, one of the most important factors leading to the degradation of democratic systems. the report on justice presented by the commission at the end of january is an objective one. if we are determined and committed to our path towards normality and to meeting the criteria set out in the cooperation and verification mechanism, i ask you: how much does it help us, from the point of view of credibility, to keep in public leadership positions by the current government people whose integrity is called into question?
mr president, i have some observations. firstly, if there were doubts related to justice and the fight against corruption in romania, it would have been natural for them to be addressed during the accession negotiations before the treaty was signed, and not in a subsequent document. secondly, the verification mechanism was conceived in such a way, with no date for its validity, that it soon became an instrument used for political purposes both internally and externally, thus condemning the country to perpetually incomplete eu membership. moreover, the commission’s request to romania and bulgaria for complete transparency is reciprocated by complete secrecy on its sources of information. the fact that the latest report on romania repeats almost to the letter all the accusations brought by the president against the government following his lawful suspension in the summer of 2012, which was recognised by the constitutional court, only serves to undermine the eu’s credibility in the eyes of millions of romanians. this questions both its political neutrality and its rejection of power politics.
mr. arlacchi, i am the daughter of the romanian president, but i was elected as an independent in the european parliament, with the score of a political party. so the number of votes i got to become a european parliamentarian gives me the right to ask you such questions. and, mr president, i think you are discriminating: when my colleagues from the epp raised the blue cards to the interlocutors, you did not give them time to speak, but to mr arlacchi, in the 'catch the eye' procedure, you give him time to speak.
the debate in the ep plenary in strasbourg, on the occasion of the commission's statement on the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm), is of particular importance for romania and its citizens. for those who might imagine that the mcv report was unjustifiably criticized by psd and pnl meps, being considered by them discriminatory, unfair, even abusive, i make the following clarifications: - the report welcomes the progress made and reproaches romania, mainly, that the media made critical remarks about some judicial decisions or that, for the leadership positions in the general prosecutor's office and dna, too few candidates were presented, issues that cannot, in any democratic country, be censored and decided by a government; - the report was also considered incorrect by meps from other countries (cornelia ernst - germany or pino arlacchi - italy). two clear conclusions can be drawn from this debate: on the one hand, that there is no connection between romania's entry into the schengen area and the cvm findings and that the pdl meps do not represent romania in the ep, which should not be forgotten by the romanian citizens who are called in may 2014 to vote to elect their representatives in the european parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me, on behalf of the commission, convey our best wishes to vice-president papastamkos for a speedy and complete recovery. the commission wishes to thank mr berlinguer for his excellent report, which offers us the opportunity to relaunch the discussion, not only on the entrepreneurial aspects of mutual societies, but also on the more general issue of promoting the social-economic sector, within which the mutualist movement is a major player. it is for this reason that the communication on the social business initiative contains an action covering mutual societies and cooperatives. the available data show that mutual societies are as much an integral part of the market and economy of the european union as other enterprises such as public limited companies. moreover, the success enjoyed by cooperatives and mutual societies, in both economic and social terms, proves that incorporated companies are not the only type of enterprise to perform well on the european market. accordingly, the commission obviously shares the viewpoint set out in the report, namely that the mutualist model deserves to be promoted in europe. the commission has always held that the european economy would benefit if the mutualist movement were represented in all the member states’ markets, given that the mutualist model contributes to diversity in the types of enterprise – a vital feature of economic growth. as your report very clearly notes, there are in certain countries a series of legal and administrative obstacles that mutual societies have to overcome when seeking to act as cross-border entrepreneurs or even to form groups. the commission is keen to improve the environment in which mutual societies develop and it is for this reason that it has funded a study on the current situation of mutual societies in europe. this study lists a number of legal and political problems relating to the recognition of mutual societies in certain member states, and proposes solutions. one of the aspects the study examined in depth was the need to have a study for a european mutual society as a solution to the difficulties mutual societies face when wishing to extend their activities beyond their national frontiers. on this point, the study concluded that the statute had not been shown to be the only solution to the problems faced by mutual societies. the question that now arises is what measures other than the statute might the commission propose to allow mutual societies to develop, particularly in the countries where they are not sufficiently known or in which there is no legislation covering this type of enterprise. the results of the commission’s research have been displayed since november 2012 on the website of the directorate-general for enterprise and industry. this month, the commission launched a public consultation on the study’s recommendations. the text of the questionnaire, which is addressed to mutual society organisations, national authorities and any other interested parties wishing to participate, was drawn up in close collaboration with two brussels mutual associations in the field of insurance, health and provident funds. the commission cannot decide whether it should present a proposal for a regulation on the statute for a european mutual society or what the thrust of a new policy initiative should be until the results of these consultations are known. this will be at the beginning of the second quarter of this year.
mr president, this initiative report, which was supported almost unanimously in the committee on legal affairs, asks the commission to submit one or more proposals for creating a statute for european mutual societies that would apply at european and cross-border level. as ms thein said earlier, swiss societies operate in all but six member states – despite existing disparities in the formal requirements on setting-up, operating and winding-up – and are providing financial services like insurance, property management, banking and so on. hence, a european mutual society statute would establish a level playing field for mutuals in the single market. our committee made four recommendations. the first concerns the objectives of the statute for a european mutual society, which should include the removal of all barriers to cross-border cooperation between mutual societies, while taking account of their specific features, in order to make it possible for a european mutual society to be established through the cross-border merger of two or more existing mutual societies, and to allow for the creation of a european mutual society through the conversion or transformation of a national mutual society into a new form, without complicated intermediate steps. the second recommendation is a reminder that a proposal for such a statute must take account of the particular operating rules of mutual societies, which differ from those of other economic agents. the third emphasises that such a proposal should not affect mandatory or statutory social security schemes managed in certain member states by mutual societies. the management arrangement adopted by the statute should be without prejudice to member state laws, and the regulation should not cover other areas of law. the last recommendation is on the governance of european mutual societies, and it emphasises that they should be managed democratically and financed collectively.
the scandals in the world of sport are running high, not only in third countries but also in europe. according to europol figures, around 90% of illegal sports betting is on football, but other sports should not be neglected either. we're talking about an illegal practice with a long history and huge sums of money, which, thanks to the development of mass media, has become increasingly known to the public. moreover, technological advances and the advent of online gambling have fostered an illegal and hard-to-trace transnational industry. current mechanisms have difficulty detecting match-fixing due to the global nature of these practices, which also involve factors from outside the eu. the fight against the manipulation of sports results must, however, continue to restore public confidence in the sporting phenomenon. early education is an important element in promoting values such as integrity, fair play and mutual respect. also, legalizing and regulating sports betting may solve some of the problem, since the greatest corruption in sports occurs in countries where betting is illegal.
sports provide, in addition to physical education, a social education that strengthens character. but what do we do when it affects the integrity of this discipline? what will be the character of sport when young people see corruption on television more and more often and the institutions of the european union, as well as national institutions, are powerless to deal with this phenomenon, practically unable to intervene to solve the problem? i would therefore recommend that the european commission make immediate efforts, together with the member states, to harmonise national legislation on corruption in sport, to conclude international agreements with third countries where criminal groups have been detected to eliminate them and, last but not least, to set up an international unit to monitor this phenomenon.
with the accession to the ccib, the european union will be able to exert greater influence on the cotton agenda. i therefore believe that the european union must take account not only of the demand for and supply of cotton on a world scale but also of the problems of human rights violations. sadly, forced child labor in the cotton fields remains a reality. according to estimates by the international labour organization, more than 215 million children worldwide are exploited in child labor, and 60 percent of them work in the agricultural sector. i shall dwell on the situation in uzbekistan because i have followed developments in that country as rapporteur for the european parliament on bilateral textile trade. according to several reports by various ngos, the iom, the international trade union confederation and unicef, children in uzbekistan are forced by the national authorities to meet daily quotas in cotton harvesting. they are exposed to a grueling schedule of extreme temperatures and are at risk of disease from the pesticides used to treat cotton. although uzbekistan has ratified the convention on the worst forms of forced child labour, as well as the convention on the abolition of forced labour, progress is slow to appear. i therefore call on the european commission to examine the latest report of the iom committee of experts and, if the information is confirmed, to launch an investigation to withdraw uzbekistan's right to participate in the gsp. finally, i would like to thank mrs muscardini for the way in which we have collaborated on this report. let us hope, as mr caspary has said, that the commission will take this report into account.
as the shadow rapporteur on this report, i supported it and i have also put forward a number of amendments, but i would like to stress two things. a paradox of these arab revolutions in terms of the status of women is that, on the contrary, what was achieved in a period of dictatorship, in relation to the appreciation of women's rights, risks being lost in a period of democratic transition. that is why the situation of women in north africa - and i am thinking particularly of tunisia, egypt and lebanon - is at risk of deteriorating, and we will continue to promote principles and projects that we supported many years ago but which have been demolished. undoubtedly, women's participation in political decision-making in north africa is one that, at the moment, leaves much to be desired. the educational, health and social status of these women is undoubtedly endangered by laws aimed at returning to an unacceptable islamic fundamentalism.
in writing. − by participating and actively engaging in the 'arab spring' in north africa, women in that region have demonstrated their active role in civil society, social media and blogging, and thus proved themselves to be key actors of democratic change in their countries. in this context, the eu should call on the authorities of these countries to enshrine in their constitutions the principle of gender equality and the prohibition of all forms of discrimination against women at all levels and in all areas, in accordance with international and regional instruments. they also argue that the eu special representative for human rights should pay special attention to the rights of women in north africa and that the parliamentary assembly for the mediterranean should dedicate an annual session to the situation of women to present developments in the region.
in writing. − as rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee on the situation of women in north africa, i voted in favour of this report. women played a very important role in the arab spring, both as a supporter on the battlefield, as a leader of opinion or in health care, and in the household, as the primary caregivers of family members, primarily responsible for providing food and performing domestic tasks. the eu must encourage exchanges of experience and promote programmes to ensure equal access for women to the labour market and vocational training, as well as to education, social services, justice and the public media.
in writing. − as the revised eu neighbourhood policy needs to put a stronger focus on gender equality, women's empowerment and support for civil society, i believe that the governments of the north african states need to encourage and support greater participation of women in the labour market and take all necessary measures to prevent gender discrimination in the workplace.
in writing. − the technical and financial assistance provided to african, caribbean and pacific states and overseas countries and territories through the 11th european development fund is vital to delivering on the european union's development commitments and, in particular, to reducing and eradicating poverty in these regions. i support this report in order to intensify efforts to strengthen health systems and combat hiv/aids, to ensure that the most vulnerable groups in society - women, children and people with disabilities - are included in the programming, implementation and evaluation of projects aimed at eradicating poverty, and to involve civil society and local and regional authorities more actively in identifying sustainable solutions to achieve the millennium development goals.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution because i fully supported the agreement of the european council on the multiannual budget. as a result of the negotiations in the european council, romania obtained a significant increase of 18% in the budget for the period 2014-2020. although the total budget of the union has been reduced, romania has managed, in negotiations, to obtain the largest increase of all the member states of the union in the forthcoming multiannual financial perspective. also, of the almost 40 billion euros allocated to romania, 125 million are reserved for measures to combat youth unemployment. last but not least, the agreement reached provides for vat eligibility, but also for some solutions to reduce the risk of automatic decommitment of funds from the period 2007-2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european council conclusions on the multiannual financial framework, as i believe that the union's long-term budget should be seen as an instrument for economic recovery. in a recession where unemployment is at record highs, investment can bring the economic growth we need. the council's proposal, which amounts to condemning the european citizens to austerity, is therefore unacceptable.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 because it did not contain a clear reference to the figures on which parliament will operate in the negotiations. this 'technical' deficiency does not facilitate a well-defined position of the european parliament. we need to get an agreement as soon as possible, and the key elements for us are maximum flexibility (between years and budget lines), the introduction of a review clause and the implementation of a new system on own resources.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution, as the agreement reached in the european council is a reasonable proposal in this period of austerity. i believe that any improvements can be made in the negotiations between parliament and the council, and any rejection of the draft budget would mean, from romania's point of view, a return to the previous multiannual budget, which is unfavourable to us.
i voted in favour of the report because the system of national and regional accounts must provide high quality data based on a sound methodology. information must be as complete, up-to-date, accessible and useful as possible to both consumers and economic operators. i therefore consider the amendments made by the regulation to be relevant. it is necessary to establish rules on the processing and publication of key macroeconomic data at national and european level. this will enable us to better measure, assess and monitor economic reality and developments. we also have to consider the importance of information on small countries, because it can have systemic effects. in this way, the existing framework can be improved. another important aspect is the introduction of contingent liabilities, which is a remarkable achievement for parliament.
in writing. − this proposal is a thorough revision of the european system of national and regional accounts, which is based on the most recent revision of the united nations system of national accounts. policy makers, economic actors and citizens need independent, reliable, comparable and up-to-date data to measure, assess and monitor economic reality. i believe that every effort should be made to ensure that the revised version of the esa provides citizens with macroeconomic statistics of the highest quality, based on a sound methodology.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that the flag state control issues mentioned in the 2006 maritime labour convention (mlc) should be framed in eu law in a more detailed and specific way. it is necessary to take account of the minimum requirements for seafarers to be able to work on board a ship, of working conditions, health protection, medical insurance, but also of compliance and enforcement. this will promote and enhance the sector's image and protect european interests worldwide. and member states will be able to have a solid framework to guide them in their flag state responsibilities.
in writing. − the 2006 maritime labour convention (mlc) can be considered as the first maritime labour code for more than 1.2 million seafarers worldwide, as well as for ship owners and maritime nations across the globe. the aspects of flag state control mentioned in the convention should be framed in eu legislation in the most detailed and specific way possible. i believe that a major advantage of introducing cfp into european law is that it will benefit from a stricter enforcement regime within the eu, leading to an even higher level of compliance.
in writing. − the aspects of flag state control mentioned in the 2006 maritime labour convention should be more fully and specifically incorporated into eu legislation. a major advantage of introducing maritime labour into eu law is that it will benefit from a stricter enforcement regime within the eu, for example through infringement procedures, which will lead to an even higher level of compliance. eu provisions on flag state control should reflect what maritime work specifically and expressly aims to avoid - different interpretations by member states - which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. the introduction of the maritime labour certificate and the maritime labour declaration of conformity are central elements for the implementation of maritime labour. clear rules on labour supply responsibilities are needed to ensure that member states fulfil their responsibilities for the recruitment, placement and social protection of seafarers.
i voted in favour of the report and congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work she has done on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2014 budget. i believe that a more careful evaluation and monitoring of next year's budget will be needed to avoid situations like the one in 2012, when several programmes, such as erasmus, risked running out of funding. the year 2014 is a special one as it is to be the first year of implementation of the new multiannual financial framework. an appropriate action plan is needed to address the issue of outstanding commitments in the next mff. the union's priorities must be to foster economic growth and job creation, especially for young people. the budget must be an instrument for strengthening cohesion in the union and helping to overcome the economic crisis.
in writing. − in the legislature beginning in 2014, the european parliament will be composed of 751 members. with the entry into force of the treaty of accession of croatia, this will result in a temporary increase in the total number of seats to 766. the total number of mandates should therefore be reduced by 15 in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of the treaty on european union. the decision setting out the composition of the new parliament could also include a wider redistribution of seats, in order to take account of demographic changes in the member states and thus improve the interpretation and implementation of the principle of degressive proportionality, as laid down in the treaty. under the treaty, the composition of the new parliament is to be decided by a decision of the european council, adopted unanimously on the initiative of the european parliament and with its consent.
in writing. - i voted against the report, considering that it was based on subjective arguments. the decision on the future representation of states in the european parliament must take account of accurate, verified and verifiable data, and the prior analysis must be carried out by independent experts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because changing the characteristics of a product can lead to increased consumer distrust. in our case, even if the definitions of spirit drinks can be supplemented or updated, if previous definitions did not exist or were insufficient, they should continue to respect traditional quality practices. thus, traditional absinthe production practices have come to differ to some extent, depending on the regional availability of certain ingredients and the different preferences of consumers. however, absinthe could be defined in a way that ensures respect for regional varieties, rather than requiring producers to change traditional production methods. therefore, following the introduction of the new definition of absinthe, producers of variations of that spirit drink should avoid using the term 'absinthe'.
i voted in favour of the report because the opening of interinstitutional negotiations is an important step in the process of reforming the common agricultural policy. we need to ensure a viable future for the agricultural and agri-food sectors. the common agricultural policy is of particular importance for romania. my country is set to receive €13 billion in direct payments over the period 2014-2020, compared to €5.5 billion in the 2007-2013 period. i support maintaining a fair level of support through direct payments. the value of direct payments to active farmers shows that, although some requirements have increased, the union is providing strong support to them. we need young farmers and i believe that the mandatory additional annual payments of 2% of the annual national ceiling will create new opportunities for their professional development.
in writing. - a fair, fair, greener common agricultural policy, attractive to those who want to invest in agriculture, favourable to young people and women, a cap that supports the rural dimension, covered by an appropriate budget, that does not tolerate a decrease, is part of what millions of farmers are waiting for.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the new regulations are due to come into force at the beginning of next year. i welcome some of these provisions, for example the simplified schemes for small farmers or the support for young farmers. however, the report is disappointing in that the subsidies given in eastern european states are similar to those received by farmers in western europe. in this context, i welcome the adoption of amendment no 139, which provides for a fairer system of subsidies.
i voted for this report because i believe that the interinstitutional negotiations must begin without delay. i too believe that the agricultural sector should have some derogations, within the limits set, from the usual rules of competition, so that farmers are economically independent. also, in order to be able to exercise greater market power, farmers should be more active in association. in my country, at the level of agricultural producers, cooperation has so far proved to be insufficient. this is not a favourable environment for the development of the agricultural sector. therefore, the establishment of strong producer organisations is indispensable, while avoiding the formation of cartels. i would stress that to achieve these objectives and for a successful cap, an appropriate financing decision by the union will be needed.
in writing. − to be able to talk about competitiveness, about support for agriculture for all member states, to be able to respond to the current challenges of food security and food security or climate change, we must demand a fair and objective redesign of the cap, accepted by all member states, which will reduce the existing discrepancies at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the new common market organisation. i welcome the extension of the sugar quota system. on the other hand, i think it's a bit much to extend planting rights until 2030. i regret the rejection of amendment no 507, which was a balanced and reasonable compromise.
i voted in favour of the report, given that rural development is more than just agriculture and must lead to an increase in the quality of life in rural areas. i therefore stress the need to open interinstitutional negotiations and to reach a decision quickly. romania attracted over eur 4.39 billion from european rural development funds by the end of last year, representing an absorption rate of around 44% of the total amount allocated in 2007 2013. organic farming is one of the areas where there has been a lot of investment, and it has grown dramatically in the last couple of years. at the same time, as romania has several disadvantaged mountain regions, strong support from the rural development fund is needed. in conclusion, it is essential to allocate adequate resources to the prosperity and sustainability of europe's agricultural and agri-food sectors.
in writing. − in a european union with diversified agriculture, the cap 2014-2020 should promote a common dimension applied to all member states. sustainable rural development should be strengthened by promoting urban-rural relations and transregional cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and welcome the maintenance of a strong second pillar in the common agricultural policy. i think that parliament has struck a good balance between measures to develop agriculture and food production on the one hand and environmental protection on the other, proving that the two aspects are not incompatible but the opposite. the commission's proposals and parliament's amendments create a framework that can be improved in future negotiations with the council of the european union. i regret the rejection of amendment no 182, which would have allowed for a more judicious use of funds for environmental protection and the application of important community instruments.
interinstitutional negotiations on the financing, management and monitoring of the cap must start as soon as possible, which is why i voted in favour of this report. complex administrative processes need to be simplified. the cap funds must be managed in the simplest and most efficient way possible, and controls must be proportionate and implement alert systems, while maintaining the rigour needed to avoid sanctions. unfortunately, last month, as part of its audit and closure procedure, the european commission asked romania to return €17.7 million of cap funds that had been incorrectly spent. in order to prevent such cases, i stress the importance of more effective monitoring mechanisms. to this end, it is necessary to negotiate adequate financing for the cap reform.
in writing. − i believe that reducing administrative burden is one of the main objectives of cap reform and the vote on the four cap packages shows that the european parliament is capable of providing solutions and that there is a willingness to support agriculture at european level.
the role of energy efficiency measures is critical in order to achieve the climate and energy targets set at the lowest cost. i believe that in order to benefit from improved energy efficiency and to achieve energy savings, member states must accelerate the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, continue building renovation actions to reduce energy consumption and adapt their national programmes so as to develop new, smart and flexible infrastructures, in particular smart grids, which allow the provision of energy reserves. by using eu funds wisely for the next 2014-2020 programming period, we will be able to reach the 20% energy efficiency target by 2014. in addition, reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and will thus generate a significant reduction in imports, by about 25%.
i voted in favour of the report because, in ensuring the transition to a low-carbon economy, natural gas plays a very important role. shale gas has become a potential new source of supply for europe, and advances in this field could reduce dependence on imports. in the years ahead, shale gas may be the best solution both for reducing carbon emissions and for ensuring energy independence. romania is one of the countries that decided to start exploration for exploitable shale gas resources. if these resources are found, every effort must be made to exploit them. the united states will soon be independent of imports thanks to shale gas, and the european union should follow suit.
in writing. − to achieve the target of reducing emissions by more than 80% by 2050, europe's energy production will need to be characterised by near-zero carbon emissions. this must be done without disrupting energy resources and competitiveness. the scenarios proposed are not deterministic but rather serve as a basis for a constructive dialogue on how to transform the european energy system in order to meet the eu's long-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. to achieve this, i believe that new infrastructures are needed, in particular smart grids, which allow for flexible reserves and balanced energy capacity, and a fully integrated network at european level, containing all the eu's energy resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. energy infrastructure requires long-term investment, so the eu needs a long-term strategy. long-term planning of energy policies is necessary to ensure the union's greatest possible energy independence and the most sustainable and diversified energy production. energy independence and security of all member states is essential if they are to avoid future energy supply cuts due to international conflicts similar to the past russian-ukrainian disputes, which affected gas supplies to romania and other central and eastern european member states. another important aspect is investment in research and innovation to secure new ways of producing energy in the long term.
in writing. − i voted for the energy outlook 2050 because it serves as a basis for constructive dialogue on the definition of an ambitious and stable 2030 policy framework. the european union today operates in a global context and therefore we need pan-european governance to ensure that we move towards a model of energy interdependence between member states. through the initiatives and tools made available, member states can continue to work together towards the rapid completion of the internal energy market by continuing to invest in super- and smart grid infrastructure and implementing policies to optimise the cost-effectiveness of the expansion of renewable energy sources with a view to creating economies of scale in renewable energy activities. i support the inclusion of the social dimension in the energy perspective through initiatives that combat energy scarcity and take into account the need to protect consumers against high energy prices and businesses against unfair competition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'energy outlook 2050: an energy future', because we need to ensure fair and universal access to a sustainable energy supply for all european citizens. europe can meet its energy, climate change and economic targets while also helping to boost its economic recovery through energy efficiency. the transition to a more energy-efficient economy would accelerate the diffusion of technologically innovative solutions and improve the competitiveness of industry in the union, thereby stimulating economic growth and job creation in energy efficiency-related sectors. it is very important to support small renewable energy producers, and i mean including local and regional authorities, to facilitate their integration into the grid. in this regard, regional and local authorities should continue to benefit from simplified access to financing from the european investment bank's sustainable energy funds. last but not least, i believe that member states should support local and regional authorities to develop renewable energy action plans to inform the general public about the benefits of using renewable energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and welcome the reference to the need to accelerate investment in biofuels from agricultural waste. the potential of this field is huge. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the eu's waste management strategy. however, i would point out that in order to achieve these objectives, incentives are needed and in this respect the union should draw inspiration from the system in place since 2009 in the united states of america, where under the assistance programme payments of up to usd 45 per tonne of harvested dry biomass are granted.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the fukushima accident has shown how important the safety of nuclear installations is, especially in the face of natural disasters. the commission report shows that in some situations there are still deficiencies in the operation of nuclear power plants. this is not the case in romania, which implements the highest standards of nuclear safety at the cernavoda plant. moreover, in the context of ensuring energy independence, my country is seeking to further develop its civil nuclear programme for the construction of other reactors, but in this period of crisis, funding sources are limited. therefore, identifying potential investors is very important in the coming period. through responsible exploitation, nuclear energy remains one of the cleanest sources of energy and can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. − following the fukushima nuclear accident, the european commission, together with the european nuclear safety regulatory group, initiated a voluntary action to test 143 nuclear power plants in the european union. these tests were based on a common methodology and took into account both natural and man-made disasters. as a result of the stress tests, countries have begun to implement or plan measures to improve the safety of their power plants. i welcome the fact that the european commission has identified the measures to be considered at eu level and i believe that it is necessary for all parties involved to implement all the conclusions and recommendations immediately and appropriately.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on stress testing because it is important for the european institutions to provide assurance to european citizens on the safety of power stations in the eu. member states must maintain their commitments made at eu level in the field of nuclear energy. nuclear energy has its role in the energy mix to achieve energy security and climate change objectives and to ensure an affordable electricity price for the final consumer. romania supports the development of low-carbon energy sources, of which nuclear energy is an important component. strengthening nuclear security involves establishing common security procedures and standards, taking into account internationally agreed standards, but we should not underestimate the importance of the principle of subsidiarity and national competences in this area, as the duplication of competences in the field of nuclear security can lead to confusion. public information must be an ongoing, coordinated and transparent process in order to gain and maintain public confidence in nuclear energy and in the authorities managing nuclear activities.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the union was built on common values such as respect for human rights and the promotion of tolerance. in times of economic crisis, xenophobic and racist tendencies take hold. the most discriminated community in europe is probably the roma. the estimated 10-12 million roma in europe face prejudice, intolerance, discrimination and social exclusion in their daily lives. unfortunately, the roma problem continues to be neglected in several member states, even though almost two years have passed since the launch of the european roma integration strategy. the level of coordination between states is also still low and the commission should encourage better cooperation between the responsible authorities. better use of the european social fund is needed to achieve the objectives of the strategy by 2020.
in writing. - the crisis in the european union has had an impact not only on the economic level but also on the social level, with intolerance towards minorities increasing significantly in recent years. the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) reported that one in four people belonging to a minority group has been the victim of a racially motivated crime. at european level, a comprehensive strategy is needed to combat hate crime, prejudice-based violence and discrimination. education programmes to promote a culture of respect and tolerance can be a first step in addressing this problem. moreover, member states must make every effort to ensure that hate crimes are reported by victims, investigated by law enforcement authorities and punished by the judiciary, as this is the only way to preserve and then promote internationally the eu's common values of respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because there is a need for a stronger commitment against hate crime, racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia and homophobia and all discriminatory behaviour. the european union is a union of tolerance, with respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law as its central pillars. although member states have introduced the prohibition of discrimination into their legal systems, we need to reiterate the fight against hate crime and discriminatory attitudes and behaviour by developing a comprehensive strategy to combat violence caused by prejudice and acts of discrimination. i support the resolution and call for the implementation of national roma integration strategies, through support to local, regional and national authorities for the development and implementation of effective human rights policies, in line with roma inclusion programmes and actions. i also insist on the implementation of the european parliament's roadmap for equal opportunities irrespective of sexual orientation and gender identity, which has been called for many times.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. endocrine disorders and diseases have increased worldwide, and many studies consider endocrine disruptors to be a contributing factor. endocrine disruptors have been associated with a number of health problems over time, such as reproductive, congenital or neurodevelopmental disorders (autism). the worrying thing is that endocrine disruptors are found in a wide range of products, from the packaging of the food we buy to some electronic products without which many of us could not carry out our daily activities (the telephone or the laptop). the protection of human health is one of the pillars of community policy, and the precautionary principle must be fully applied.
in writing. − endocrine disruptors are increasingly recognised as a major challenge to human health and the environment. they have often been linked to a number of serious health problems, such as cancer, diabetes, immune dysfunction, obesity, reproductive dysfunction, cardiovascular disease, behavioral changes, and early puberty. the financial crisis is often cited as the main obstacle to the development of new legislation. a more precise and accurate description of the nature of the risks is needed to decide where to position this issue in terms of priority and resource allocation. the precautionary principle requires that, in this context of scientific uncertainty, we take appropriate measures to avoid or reduce potentially serious or irreversible consequences for human health and the environment by introducing and maintaining research programmes on the effects of these endocrine disruptors. the commission must pay particular attention to vulnerable groups such as children and women. the protection of women against the potential risks posed by endocrine disruptors to their reproductive health is a matter of the utmost importance and should be addressed by funding, as a matter of priority, those research and long-term studies aimed at monitoring women's health.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the protection of public health against endocrine disruptors and i will always support the application of the precautionary principle in the use of chemicals, regardless of the field. public bodies have a duty to compensate, through prudence and the fullest possible information, for the lack of knowledge of the consumer public about the potential adverse effects of certain chemicals. i consider that where these chemicals are components of foodstuffs, the precautionary principle must take precedence over any other consideration, whatever it may be.
in writing. − the contribution of migrants to our society cannot be overstated. since 2000, about a quarter of new jobs have been created through the contribution of migrants. in 2011, 48.9 million foreign-born people lived in the 27 eu member states (9.7% of the total eu population). the commission and the member states need to significantly strengthen the legal and social position of women in order to prevent discrimination and to use the potential contribution of women to economic and social development. access to the labour market should support the transparency of skills, qualifications and competences in partner countries through the reform of qualifications and education systems. the commission and the member states should work with partner countries to put more emphasis on combating the exploitation of child labour, with a view to creating instead decent jobs for adults and allowing children to receive an appropriate education. they also support the implementation of freedom of association of trade unions and the right to collective bargaining without exceptions, in order to implement, improve and defend decent working conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the integration of migrants, its effects on the labour market and the external dimension of social security coordination, considering that it is very important for member states to develop and share best practices for promoting diversity in the workplace, especially by supporting start-ups, as they can bring about sustainable economic growth by creating new jobs. as regards illegal labour migration, it can be limited not only by effective monitoring means but also by greater flexibility of procedures and transparency on legal migration opportunities. we need to promote needs-based migration, which is why i think it is useful to call for the introduction of a common european system, aimed at identifying labour demand, for better analysis and management of migration.
in writing. − the hirsch report brings up for discussion a theme of crucial importance to the eu. using the right working capital will boost the european business environment and lessen the burden of social security schemes on our national budgets. i fully welcome the approval of this report, as it represents a good base for discussion in relation to future action at national and european level to help our economies, improve our level of competitiveness and offer our employers the best workforce. the integration of migrants into the labour markets is the right way to begin closing the gap between job vacancies and individuals in search of work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because asbestos is very dangerous, causing diseases such as lung cancer and pleural mesothelioma. it is still found in many mines, unsafe landfills, water supply systems, near-shore wrecks, and public and private buildings. cases of people affected by asbestos inhalation are continuously increasing and by 2030 the number is estimated to reach around 500 000. it's a matter of concern, which is why we need to take action as soon as possible. we need to protect the most vulnerable workers, provide support to those affected and develop asbestos removal projects.
in writing. − the removal of asbestos-containing materials from buildings, particularly in less economically developed member states and rural areas, is a financial burden for building owners and should continue to receive active support at national and european level. for all persons involved (employer, supervisor, worker) in asbestos-related activities, training should cover: the properties of asbestos and its health effects, including synergy with smoking; the types of materials or products that may contain asbestos and the places where they may be encountered; how the condition of materials or products affects the ease of removal of fibres and the action to be taken if materials containing asbestos are identified. the commission should propose a specific directive containing the necessary requirements for the training of construction and maintenance workers, including construction specialists who work with asbestos by accident. such training must be provided at regular intervals and at no cost to the workers. safe working procedures, including the correct use of protective equipment, are required for workers who may be working in the vicinity of materials containing asbestos.
in writing. − according to the world health organisation, between 20 000 and 30 000 cases of asbestos-related diseases are reported each year in the eu alone, and it is estimated that more than 300 000 citizens will die of mesothelioma in the eu by 2030. this is why the commission must carry out a study listing the problems caused by the use of asbestos in each member state and identify the specific measures for the safe elimination of asbestos from public buildings, indicating the funds that will be needed to this end. the commission should also amend recommendation 2003/670/ec, as medical research has in the meantime shown a link between asbestos and ovarian and laryngeal cancer.
in writing. − the issue of mutual societies has been on the agenda of european decision-makers for some time, and i welcome the initiative of the european legislator to legislate in this area, which requires an effective and pragmatic framework to thrive. the importance of addressing this issue is all the greater as mutual societies provide essential services to citizens of the member states as well as to european citizens working outside their own country's borders, a growing socio-demographic category. the new rules must ensure that mutual societies remain a vital part of the european social system and of european economies, which are currently suffering from the consequences of the economic crisis. equally, the proposed rules must not depart from respect for fundamental rights and the principle of subsidiarity. i support the adoption of this report, which contains recommendations enabling european companies to use new legal instruments which are appropriate to their own activity and capable of preserving the mutual character of these associations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because a statute for european mutual societies would guarantee the creation of appropriate legal instruments in this field. at present, european mutual societies vary considerably in terms of the services they provide, their size or their mission. however, the statute will give them the capacity to develop crossborder activities and to operate within the union under normal conditions of competition. i also support the recommendation of parliament that any legislative initiative in this respect should not change existing national legislation. therefore, the harmonisation of the laws of the member states concerning mutual societies is not sought. i believe that the european charter should promote the innovative capacity of mutual societies so that citizens benefit from a greater diversity of services. moreover, it is important that european mutual societies are governed democratically.
in writing. − mutual societies play a major role in the union's economy, providing healthcare and social benefits to over 160 million european citizens, representing over €180 billion in insurance premiums and employing over 350 000 people in the union. increasing expenditure on healthcare and pensions could have significant consequences for the sustainability and coverage of current social protection schemes, which could lead member states to reduce the level of compulsory social protection contributions and to shift social security burdens to the private sector. mutual societies must play an important role in sustainable health through proactive prevention policies. the social economy, and in particular mutual societies, play a key role in the union economy, combining profitability with solidarity, creating quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion, generating social capital, promoting active citizenship, social welfare based on solidarity and a type of economy based on democratic values, which puts people first and supports sustainable development and social, technological and environmental innovation.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it seems that the election of president morsi and the adoption of the new constitution were not enough to stabilize the situation in egypt. two years after the revolution, the country is facing an unprecedented crisis. in recent weeks, protests have become increasingly violent, and clashes with law enforcement have resulted in more casualties. the way the new constitution was adopted further divided egyptian society. it also appears that the practices of the former regime have been resumed, with the police intervening several times against protesters with excessive force. the government and the opposition must reach meaningful compromises to solve the issues that are truly important to the egyptian people. otherwise, the egyptian revolution will be in danger.
in writing. − the european union has established itself throughout its history not only as a force upholding the values and principles of democracy and the rule of law, but also as a major influencer of the transition to democracy. whether in eastern europe, asia or africa, the european union has consistently encouraged, both financially and institutionally, the building of democratic, open and transparent systems. the situation in egypt is calling for the attention of the european union. it is true that building democratic institutions takes time, effort and patience, but the european union must at no time deviate from its own principles and must use its resources and influence to ensure that the arab spring has a happy ending for the societies and people of the region. the european union must project its influence as a global political actor, while at the same time not neglecting the deep attachment of european citizens to transparency and democracy.
i voted in favour of the resolution and i want to condemn the nuclear test conducted by north korea in february as a violation of un resolutions. furthermore, i am concerned by the statements of pyongyang officials, who have threatened to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike and denounced the armistice with south korea. the un security council has done the right thing by stepping up pressure on north korea by adopting additional sanctions. unfortunately, these sanctions will also affect the country's population, which is already in a desperate situation. but to prevent north korea from developing a nuclear weapon, the most decisive action is needed. china's role will also be very important in the coming period, because it is the only state that maintains ties with this regime.
in writing. − the nuclear test conducted by the democratic people's republic of korea (dprk) on 12 february 2013, accompanied by the dprk's official announcement that it reserves the right to launch a pre-emptive nuclear strike, constitutes a serious threat to world peace and security and a breach of international obligations assumed by united nations member states. i support the resolution by which parliament condemns the recent events and expresses its support for a diplomatic and political solution to the nuclear problem in the dprk. north korea must find a way not to shut down the channels of communication it has with the international community and must engage in constructive dialogue that can lead to regional stability on the peninsula and improve the welfare of the north korean people. the food situation in the country is very serious and the commission must make every effort to ensure that humanitarian aid is delivered safely to the population.
in writing. − north korea's recent statements regarding the breach of the armistice agreement with the republic of korea and the threat of nuclear attack are deeply worrying. i believe that the solution to the tense situation on the korean peninsula lies in dialogue. at the same time, china's involvement in finding a peaceful solution is paramount, given its relations with north korea and its permanent membership of the un security council. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution on nuclear threats and human rights in the democratic people's republic of korea.
i voted in favour of the report because china remains one of the union's most important economic partners. in the context of the crisis, many chinese investors have refocused their attention on european markets. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment, with a view to promoting sustainable development and sustainable development. i am also concerned that the death penalty is still in force in china and that thousands of executions take place in that country every year. it is of particular importance that china comply with the commitments made in the partnership dialogue with the union. however, areas where cooperation between the union and china can bring benefits to both sides need to be identified. romania has a long tradition of cooperation with china, and my country has promoted the presence of chinese investors in the romanian market.
i voted in favour of the resolution because match-fixing in the context of sports betting is contrary to the fundamental values of sport. this phenomenon allows international betting networks and criminals to make millions of euros a year and corrupt football. according to europol's investigation, in the last few years, nearly 680 matches, 380 of them in europe, have been fixed. so far, arrests have been made in italy, poland, turkey and romania. i believe that europol needs to put additional pressure on the authorities to address the issue. coordinated efforts are needed from public authorities, sports organizations, and gambling operators. i also support the commission's participation in the council of europe debates on this subject and welcome the idea of a possible convention on combating the manipulation of sports results.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the cotton industry has become an important source of revenue for many states. but as it has developed, so has its impact on the environment. the overuse of pesticides and insecticides has negative effects, leading to soil degradation and water pollution. i also want to draw attention to the use of minors in the cotton and textile sector. working conditions in the textile factories, especially in less developed countries, are very difficult. recent examples of factory fires in bangladesh show that safety standards are being neglected. more effective regulation is therefore needed at international level to ensure decent working conditions for cotton workers and to prevent child labour.
in writing. - i contributed to the drafting of this resolution together with my colleague, cristiana muscardini. we have drawn attention to the states that continue to exploit child labor for cotton harvesting. according to estimates by the ilo, over 215 million children worldwide are exploited in child labor, and 60 percent of them work in the agricultural sector. states like uzbekistan must stop this practice, because the school situation and the health of children are in danger. they are forced by the authorities to work during school hours and are frequently exposed to pesticide-treated cotton. the european union will be able to exert greater influence on the cotton agenda by joining the ccib.
author. - as the initiator of the inclusion of the situation in bangladesh in today's emergency debates, i would like to stress the importance of parliament's reaction to the events resulting from the death sentence of delwar hossain sayeedi, vice-chairman of the islamist jamaat party. indeed, we could not, i think, ignore the worst episode of political violence that bangladesh has known in the last 42 years. we are facing a paradoxical situation, because the international war crimes tribunal, which was supposed to help bangladesh overcome the horrors that accompanied the birth of this nation in 1971, is actually at the origin of the recent violence. we must of course reaffirm our categorical opposition to the death penalty and call on the bangladeshi authorities to commute the sentences handed down and to introduce a moratorium on these punishments. the respect of international fair trial standards is indispensable, especially in the case of a court that is supposed to promote national reconciliation. the violence that followed the sentencing is, for each of us, unacceptable and i am referring here, of course, to both the violence of jamaat party supporters and the violence of the security forces. peaceful demonstrations are, as we know, a fundamental right; violence is never a reasonable response. it is also very worrying that according to human rights watch, most of the victims were provoked by the police. we must therefore remind the government in dhaka that it is primarily responsible for the security of its citizens. finally, it should also be stressed that the recent violence in bangladesh shows a polarization of society, divided between a secular vision, embodied by the awami, and the religious vision, represented by the bangladesh nationalist party, allied with jamaat-e-islami. our resolution calls on all parties to overcome their divisions.
we are deeply concerned about the bloody inter-confessional violence in bangladesh. i don't think reopening the wounds of the past is good for society. we understand the need for justice, but as the european parliament has repeatedly stressed, the death penalty cannot constitute an act of justice. punishing one crime by another can only remove the prospect of national reconciliation and intensify the tensions that plague bangladesh. we call on the bangladeshi authorities to commute urgently the death sentences handed down against the islamic leaders in the 1971 war crimes trial. at the same time, political and religious leaders have a duty to temper their followers, who have demonstrated so violently in recent weeks during the general strike and clashes with the police. nowhere, ever, has violence been the solution, and the european union has a duty to be firm in its efforts to establish a climate of peace, so necessary to the objective and politically unmotivated act of justice.
in recent years, bangladesh has experienced significant economic growth, based heavily on exports and foreign investment. however, the country faces a difficult situation, with nearly half its people now living below the poverty line. bangladesh's economic growth is threatened by the violent protests that are taking place in the country. i think the authorities should be more concerned about starting a dialogue with the opposition to find a solution to the current crisis. on the other hand, the encouragement of the protests by the nationalist party and its allies is only making the situation worse, and the ordinary citizens of bangladesh will suffer the most.
i have learned with regret of the terrible attack that took place on 23 january against the turkmen minority in iraq. the civilian population is extremely vulnerable in this country, where inter-ethnic violence, in the form of assassinations, abductions and bombings, is common. in this context, the approval by the iraqi parliament of a human rights committee is positive. but the country must step up its efforts to guarantee the safety of vulnerable groups as well as freedom of religion and expression. a fully functional human rights commission is a necessity, and inter-ethnic reconciliation and the maintenance of security and public order must be priorities of the government. at the same time, the european union has a duty to help the republic of iraq achieve these objectives. the partnership and cooperation agreement constitutes a platform for dialogue and at the same time a commitment on the part of the union to support efforts in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms.
question submitted under the 'blue card' procedure i consider that arbitrary intervention on the carbon market at union level can have a negative impact on both the market and european industry. moreover, the main cause of the reduction in carbon emissions by more than 10% since the start of the second trading period in 2008 was not the price of carbon but the decrease in industrial activity due to the economic crisis. i do not support, as you do, the delay in the timing of the auctioning of emission allowances and i would like to ask you if you are aware that in the report on the state of the internal carbon market in 2012, the commission has already proposed the option of permanently withdrawing a number of allowances during the third period?
we agree that the ets market is currently facing serious problems, due, inter alia, to the imbalance between supply and demand that has emerged during this period of crisis in europe and that has had exceptional and unpredictable effects on the market. i believe that the change in the timing of the auctioning of emission allowances - the proposal by which the commission wants to revitalise the market - should not have as its aim the increase in the price of allowances, but should only be aimed at the proper functioning of a market which, for the parties concerned, has lost its credibility. i do not consider back-loading to be a measure capable of resolving market failures in itself, but a measure which may save time. the priority must therefore be to adopt a set of measures that have the potential to address the long-term structural problems of the carbon market.
since 2008, unfortunately, not enough investment has been made in making european industry more environmentally friendly. what guarantees are there that the investments needed to make european industry eco-efficient will be made, regardless of the price of carbon dioxide per tonne, which has fallen from eur 20 per tonne in 2008 to around eur 4 per tonne in 2012? now, the price per ton of carbon dioxide is low. the commission has also tried to set an arbitrary price of eur 30 per tonne of carbon dioxide in the energy taxation directive. european industry needs massive investment in re-technologising to become eco-efficient and to keep jobs in the union. the union needs both an ambitious environmental policy and the competitiveness of european industry and, above all, the preservation of jobs within the european union.
in writing. i must say at the outset that i disagree with the european commission's proposal to change this ets auction calendar for two main reasons. first, in the ets the price of allowances is set by the market. the current price of emissions, although low, reflects the reality of the market, so i see no need for artificial intervention by the authorities. secondly, delaying the placing of emission allowances on the market would inevitably lead to higher energy prices. in my view, this is not acceptable in the context of the current crisis and given that the liberalisation of the energy market has already led to higher energy costs for final consumers. i fully agree with the goal of reducing carbon emissions, but i don't think it should be achieved at any cost. the ets must function as originally planned and not jeopardise other important objectives such as re-industrialisation or the recovery from the economic and social crisis.
in writing. on the vote tomorrow, i will vote in favour of amendment no 20, which rejects the commission's proposal. the proposed 'end-of-period concentration' of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be traded in 2013-2020 is challenged by businesses and experts as both inefficient and likely to keep energy prices high. the european union could lose investment and jobs as a result of this measure, which we cannot afford in this period of high unemployment. the measure would also distort the european union's emissions trading system, which is a functioning system and has an interesting potential in achieving the proposed reductions in carbon dioxide emissions. the decline in the price of carbon is an effect of the economic crisis. i believe that we must want an industry which produces more and pollutes less, not one which does not pollute simply because it does not produce, while european citizens are worried about their jobs.
in writing. the european commission's proposal to withdraw a significant number of emission allowances has generated intense debate and extreme positions from both different industries and civil society. i think that a comparative analysis of the impact of the reduction of emissions in europe on the total volume of emissions in the world is needed and how much europe can advance in this area without jeopardising the future of its own industry.
between 1990 and 2006, carbon dioxide emissions from aviation almost doubled, accounting for about 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions. this number is continuing to rise and is projected to increase by 63% by 2020. but effective global warming management can only be achieved on an international basis. we need to make sure that the same climate targets are being considered globally and that carbon emissions do not ignore national borders. we must not forget that our commitment is to reduce our emissions by 20% compared with 1990 levels. that is why i think it is important that aviation, which is part of the eu ets, also plays its part in the fight against climate change. third countries must also accept that, if their flights also affect the eu, they cannot ignore the provisions of the ets. two thirds of emissions are caused by intercontinental flights, but only one third of these are caused by flights from the eu. i therefore support the position of the commission and the rapporteur in the interests of a successful negotiation as soon as possible. the legal basis for reducing the amounts to be auctioned should be established as soon as possible, as this is still lacking. it is also necessary to clarify that the scheme should not be applied for more than one year only within the union. this is our chance to prove that the european union is not standing in the way of international agreement.
the court of justice confirmed in 2011 that the inclusion in the european trading system of emission allowances from third-country vessels departing from or arriving at union airports is legally admissible. air carriers using the same routes must be treated equally. the union is ready to amend its legislation as soon as a global agreement is reached. the problems caused by aviation emissions can only be effectively managed by a global obligation to comply with the same measures or to achieve the same objectives through different measures. the union expects icao to agree on a global market measure and a realistic timetable for its implementation. the commission should submit to parliament a full progress report to the icao assembly in september 2013 and swiftly propose actions based on these results.
i would first of all like to congratulate our colleague, mrs zita gurmai, on this report and on her whole effort to promote women's rights. unfortunately, women continue to be the main victims of domestic violence, wage discrimination and inequality. they suffer more than men from redundancies and budget cuts, have a harder time entering the labour market and have fewer vocational training opportunities. and women are more affected by the wage gap, and these inequalities often push them into poverty. it is a serious fact that, although many family responsibilities fall to women, in many european societies they have greater difficulties than men in renting a home, acquiring property, and obtaining health care and insurance. single mothers have more difficulty accessing credit, and pregnant women have a harder time getting asylum than men. we therefore face major difficulties in the social and personal development of women, and this gender gap is an obstacle to economic recovery. in order to guarantee women's rights, i too believe, as has been said here, that the transposition and application of directive 113/2004 on equal treatment in the access to goods and services in all member states is a priority. i ask the commission to monitor the transposition of the directive to ensure that women in the european union are adequately protected against discrimination.
equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of community law. in this context, i would like to extend my greetings and congratulations to our reporter. the report welcomes the fact that it has been drawn up on its own initiative, which is intended to fill the gaps still existing in directive 113/2004 on the application of the principle of equality between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services. i support the rapporteur's proposal, which calls on the european commission and the member states to take concrete steps to explain this directive and its impact, with concrete examples, to ensure that both women and men can make full and appropriate use of the directive as an effective tool to protect their rights. i also welcome the idea of creating a database covering legislation and case law in this area, as well as better protection for victims of gender discrimination. i also insist on the need to publish the european commission's report on the application of the directive, which was due to be published in 2010 but was postponed to 2014.
the derogation provided for in article 5 (2) of directive 113/2004 allowed for proportional differences in premiums and benefits for insured persons where the criterion of gender is a determining factor in the assessment of risks. according to the judgment of the european court of justice in the test-achats case of march 2011, article 5 (2) of the directive is contrary to the objective of equal treatment between women and men and is incompatible with the charter of fundamental rights of the union. we call on the commission to revise this directive and to include mandatory provisions to clarify the situation with regard to insurance companies and related financial services. we call on the commission and the member states to take concrete measures to ensure that all citizens of the european union can make full and appropriate use of the directive as an effective instrument for protecting their rights to equal treatment in access to all goods and services.
in writing. in an ageing europe, many women decide late to become mothers, which is not good for the european union. in several member states, women are found to face a number of difficulties during pregnancy and childcare, ranging from finding a place to rent or difficulties in obtaining loans, to paying for sickness and accident insurance, which in these countries is priced differently from that paid by men. moreover, the directive itself does not regulate discrimination against parents, which is closely linked to maternity leave, with emphasis on access to public spaces, public transport or lack of facilities for parents with young children or children with disabilities. given the importance of education and the role it plays in creating and maintaining gender-based stereotypes, i believe that information campaigns should be launched to avoid the emergence and maintenance of significant differences between member states in discrimination on access to goods and services and the provision of goods and services for pregnancy and maternity, as well as to provide eu citizens with good information on their rights.
in writing. although important steps have been taken in some member states to ensure non-discriminatory access to services, cases of gender-based discrimination have been reported, for example pregnancy and maternity discrimination in relation to the housing sector (renting) or difficulties in obtaining loans. access to health products and services has also proven problematic, in particular access to reproductive health services. breast-feeding discrimination is also a sensitive issue. even though the services directive does not regulate discrimination against parents, this form of discrimination, closely linked to maternity, has been highlighted as problematic, in particular with regard to access to public spaces, public transport or the lack of facilities for parents with young children or children with disabilities. in any case, it is first and foremost necessary that european legislation be implemented as quickly as possible in the member states and that it be supplemented by national legislation ensuring equal treatment for all citizens when it comes to access to services.
i would like to welcome this position of parliament and join my colleagues who have stressed the importance of a firm stance by the union in defending its interests in the fisheries sector. unfortunately, the situation to which today's debate refers is far from unique, and the same firmness is needed in the case of fishing in the black sea, a sea where the management of fishing activities is difficult because only two of the six countries that have access to this basin are member states of the union. the dialogue with these non-eu countries should be more active and more firm, and this dialogue and its results are not grounds for complacency. i cannot end without pointing out a recently published study which says that china is fishing 12 times more fish than it declares to the united nations. the fact that most fish are caught in the waters around the african continent is no consolation for europe. we are not going to exploit the seas and oceans in a healthy way unless other countries are motivated by the same intentions and are willing to make the same sacrifices.
in writing. as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on iceland's eu accession, i would like to stress - first of all - that this country is a remarkable candidate, having already opened 27 out of 33 negotiating chapters and provisionally closed 11. in the latest progress report, voted by the committee on foreign affairs on 19 february, we also addressed the issue of mackerel fishing, expressing regret that the meetings of the parties involved in this dispute had failed to reach an agreement. on the other hand, i encouraged all the states involved to continue negotiations, confident that a consensual solution will be reached, based on realistic proposals, respecting historical rights, as well as the proposals of the international council for the exploration of the sea. finally, i hope that the negotiations with iceland will continue at the current pace and that the fisheries chapter will be opened soon so that we can tackle all the issues related to this very sensitive area.
given the importance of network and information security, the european union needs a strong and stable agency in the medium and long term. as an alternative rapporteur, i believe that the most important improvement to the regulation on the european network and information security agency is achieved through articles 2 and 3 on the agency's objectives and tasks. the agency shall thus assist the member states and the union institutions in the development and implementation of policies and legal and regulatory requirements relating to network and information security. the agency shall also provide assistance to increase and strengthen the union's and member states' preparedness and capacity to prevent, detect and respond to network and information security problems and incidents. in order to enable the agency to fulfil additional and new tasks, a sufficient and autonomous budget should be allocated and the majority of the agency's staff should be directly involved in the operational implementation of its mandate. to strengthen its role, including internationally, i would have liked the agency to have kept its name and its mandate to have been longer than seven years. congratulations to the reporter.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr chichester, for his tenacity and his stubbornness in having a real debate on this report. indeed, some may remember that the commission proposal dates back to 2010, which means that we will finally be voting after three years of intense negotiations with the council and the commission on what is a successful outcome. it does not happen often that the real issues are tackled and the real political problems dealt with, beyond the taboos and the vested interests. mr chichester has managed to make, from a banal report on prolonging the enisa mandate, a passionate debate on the nature of efficient management and how to be most cost-efficient and transparent, and a refurbished enisa agency is a landmark of its kind. this is most welcome in these times of crisis and scarce resources, and i hope that it will remain inspiring. the new liaison office based on athens is a compromise, which we hope will contribute to attracting more high-profile professionals to work for the agency. with a strengthened mandate, enisa now has the means to create its own role and make itself a major stakeholder in the field of cybersecurity. it was about time to give the agency some real substance and make it efficient in the face of increasing cyber attacks and cyber threats, while we see that our partners in the us are scaling up the means dedicated to defending itself and that there is no doubt that real wars can be waged in cyberspace. this report is proof that business as usual can be challenged by the european parliament. this challenge should become standard if we want more efficient, more result-oriented and strengthened european institutions.
first of all, i too would like to congratulate mr chichester and welcome the agreement reached to extend the mandate of enisa. i believe that ensuring the security of information systems and networks must be a priority for the whole of the european union, given the economic, social and political damage that cyberattacks can cause. enisa is the only eu body with the expertise to ensure protection against these types of attacks and i therefore believe that its role and tasks should reflect this reality. it is very important that enisa supports the development of the cert network and even coordinates its work, because we need a unified approach across the union. at the same time, as i have said many times, the highest possible security standards need to be set at european level, and enisa can play a central role in this.
member of the commission. − mr president, when mr droutsas mentioned the two offices and raised question marks, it made me think of a saying in the language i pretend to know best – the dutch language – which i would translate as ‘the kettle is blaming the pot because it is black’. for me this was a bit strange because, as far as i am aware, there are two houses of democracy in the european union – one in strasbourg and one in brussels – and parliament functions quite well. it has never entered my head that parliament is not functioning just because there are two houses. having said that, i am counting my blessings and would like to conclude by saying that every speaker tonight is aware of the importance of this agency. certainly, with the challenges that we are faced with today – and a couple of members have mentioned specific cases – we all know that this is serious stuff. we have to be aware that we need to be ready to do our job properly. today it seems possible to have a secure enisa future at hand. we are making sure that it is equipped to deliver on its goals in the most efficient manner – and that, by the way, was also a question put to me in earlier debates. enisa should be efficient and effective, for it is taxpayers’ money. talking about the organisation itself, one should ask how one can try to get all the most talented people to come to this agency. constructive cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission is at stake, and i am counting my blessings that tonight it is possible to have a final ending – a happy ending, so to speak. just to give those of you who are still hesitating a few concrete facts and figures, i am certain that moneywise there can be no argument against, as studies have proven that the total efficiency gain is estimated at 50% in several areas of enisa activity, making for annual savings of eur 352 000. so, over the seven-year mandate, we are talking about nearly eur 2.5 billion. so this does not mean fragmentation at all, as the business model in this case is based on a very clever approach. before there is any misunderstanding, this is not my proposal, but the proposal at stake is that in organising enisa it makes sense to split the operational part from the part connected with research and the top functions at enisa. is this ‘pennywise, pound-foolish’? no, on the contrary, it is making an efficient and effective point. i am grateful to all those who are backing this approach, and especially to the rapporteur and the shadows – but especially the shadow attending this meeting. this is what gives enisa an opportunity to do the job properly, and it is time-linked and also future-linked.
in writing. – ever since our society has become truly an information one, a tension between citizens’ rights and the temptation offered by technology to ignore them has become increasingly evident. ‘the war on terror’ has only amplified that tension: in a few years, monitoring people in football stadiums has been extended to every corner of our streets, so one can say that today all our lives are under the cold scrutiny of big brother. to us from the east, this is particularly disquieting. that is why, to me at least, democratic oversight of the agency is fundamental. i know that the agency is not at the centre of the debate between democracy and security. however, establishing parliamentary oversight over this agency is a right step in the right direction and a strong signal across the board. that is why i personally support the idea of renewing the mandate of the agency, which, along with offering the opportunity to adjust it to the inevitably changing environment, offers the possibility to thoroughly discuss its activity. the utility of the agency is unquestionable, as it is the need for it to keep up with the evolving environment. but, equally, it should be fully accountable.
in romania, prime minister ponta has initiated a constitutional review with the populist senate president antonescu. there are three features of it: the first is its secrecy - the press has been barred from the discussions, on the pretext that an open debate is a circus. twelve prestigious ngos called on 28 march for the process to be transparent, as the power in bucharest does not accept an extensive public consultation. the second feature of the review is its personalized nature. the socialist prime minister explained that the revision must be done so that the new constitution provides that he will participate in the work of the european council, and not president basescu, with whom ponta is in conflict. to change the fundamental law to enshrine personal ambition is a defiance of the rule of law. finally, the review process is scheduled to last only a few weeks, after the elaboration of so-called theses, the two houses would urgently vote on the changes desired by the 70% majority held by the government in parliament. secret drafting, revision driven by a strictly personal interest, fast voting, the constitutional process in romania is contrary to the principles of a state of law.
statistics published by eurostat showed that in february 2013 the unemployment rate in the european union reached 12% in the euro area and 10.9% at eu-27 level. in countries such as spain and portugal, the unemployment rate was above 50% in february 2013, and in portugal and italy, it was above 35%. also, according to eurostat statistics, in january 2013, compared to january 2012, the production of durable goods decreased by 5,5% in the euro area and by 4,3% in the eu27. four of the 27 member states - germany, italy, the united kingdom and france - accounted for more than 60% of the european union's industrial output in 2010. also, 10 member states together produced less than 4% of the european union's industrial output in 2010. the european union urgently needs measures to restore the union's industrial production, maintain its competitiveness and reduce unemployment in the eu 27. the commission, together with the member states, must develop an industrial policy in all the member states of the union and, in particular, in those whose industrial production it represents. (the president interrupted)
i want to express my total disagreement with the cheap populism expressed by some politicians, especially in the uk, especially towards immigrants from the countries of the southeast of the european union. in a period characterized by economic and financial crisis i believe that our efforts should be focused on finding solutions to solve the economic and financial crisis, and not to provoke scandals with racist and nationalist tendencies. i would like to recommend to distinguished policymakers a number of empirical studies, by distinguished researchers and professors of economics in the uk, such as dustman, fratini, preston and others, which clearly show that immigrants do not negatively affect the labour market, they make a significant contribution to the gross domestic product of the host countries, and, most importantly, these eastern european immigrants have a lower unemployment rate than the locals, which indicates that they migrated only to work, and not to receive social benefits.
the european commission hosted a conference on replenishing the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria for 2014-2016, which indicated the need for us$15 billion to fight these three infectious diseases globally. we need a full global fund. it is the most successful health instrument, having funded over 1,000 programmes to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria in 151 countries, and invested $22 billion in the fight against them. we are at a critical moment, when the global fund's support in the fight against infectious diseases is essential. the progress made so far will be lost if we don't act now. we have a historic opportunity to stop the spread of these diseases, and if we miss this moment, the long-term costs will increase exponentially in terms of lives lost, decreased productivity and economic growth. i call on the european institutions to support the integration of health as a key element in the european union's external policy instruments and thus to help save at least 6 million lives and billions of dollars over a period of 3 years.
it was only after the huge failure of the banks in cyprus that mankind understood that it was really in crisis. and suddenly, the tax haven has turned into hell. i, for one, know from romanian intelligence officers that no less than 3,500 romanian citizens have money deposited in cypriot banks. the amounts vary between eur 3 million and eur 786 million. in total, there are tens of billions of euros, black money, money whose origin is unknown - state business and fraudulent privatizations, for sure, but it could also come from the trafficking of weapons, drugs, live meat, organs, etc., so from organized crime. i have heard that the nicosia parliament is currently deciding on the amount of the nationalisation of these sums; until now it was talking about 36%. i ask my cypriot colleagues in the european parliament to tell their fellow citizens that the remaining 64% should be returned to the romanian state, the rightful owner of this money. it's not fair to save the banks and let the states die.
so far, the cvm reports have been used by some member states to unjustifiably block my country's accession to the schengen area, although i personally and this parliament categorically reject this political diversion of the cvm. i would like to inform my colleagues and the commission, however, that romania has accelerated the achievement of all the objectives of the cooperation and verification mechanism. recently, the prime minister and the president of my country agreed to collaborate in the appointment of people whose reputation cannot be disputed to senior positions in the public ministry. the prime minister also appointed a non-political person to head the ministry of justice. having fulfilled all the objective criteria for schengen accession since 2011, romania is on track to fully comply with these additional cvm criteria as well. i hope that this will be recognised by all the member states so that they can finally give the green light to join the schengen area.
in romania, the process of revising the fundamental law has begun, so there is a chance to have a new constitution adapted to the realities of the day unfortunately, a dangerous phenomenon has emerged among the representatives of the social liberal union. they want to ignore the will of the people, expressed very clearly in the 2009 referendum, namely to reduce the number of mps to 300 and to create a unicameral parliament. i note that this referendum has been validated by the constitutional court. i hope the current government will not impose, by force of parliamentary percentages, a constitution that does not respect the will of the people and european standards. moreover, crin antonescu, who is the head of the parliamentary committee for the revision of the constitution, and who is still the candidate of the current majority for the presidency, wants a constitution that serves his own interests. i am therefore sounding the alarm and saying no to parliamentary dictatorship.
the common commercial policy is an instrument that brings benefits to both the member states and the union's partners. through trade with the least developed countries, the union must encourage the diversification of their economies and their integration into the global market. thus, trade-distorting restrictions should be avoided to enable poor countries to use their competitive advantages. aid for trade programming should support developing countries and their efforts to promote local trade. i also think that foreign direct investment plays a very important role. they are a powerful driver of sustainable economic growth, entrepreneurship and technology transfer, and job creation, and are thus essential for development.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, but i would also like to point out some of the excesses in this report and express the hope that these references will be removed tomorrow when the vote is taken. the resolution thus speaks of the negative effects of the common agricultural policy on trade and development. funds for agriculture have already been drastically cut in the european council. i think we should be more careful when we approach this subject in such terms. agriculture is demonized for pollution, it's demonized for its effects on developing countries, it's demonized for producing too much biofuel, or, conversely, not producing enough. i shall therefore vote against certain paragraphs of the resolution which i do not consider to be correct, in particular paragraphs 6 and 35.
the union and its member states are the most important funders of aid for world trade. unfortunately, there is still a lack of international coordination on investment and the world trade organisation should play a leading role in this regard. i also agree that the aid for trade that the union provides should be directed to the countries that need it most, especially the least developed and low-income countries. however, the union's efforts are not sufficient to achieve the global poverty reduction targets. there is a need for greater participation of other countries with financial resources, and the commitment of the brics countries to the growth and development of poor countries is extremely important.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague othmar karas and all shadows on the outstanding work done with the two reports on capital and prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment banks. what we learn from the current crisis is that any initial damage evaluation of credit institutions has proved to be an under-evaluation. therefore, i will vote for these two reports, because they set clear requirements for reserves and limits on leveraging. they put a cap on bonuses and they create the right incentives for credit institutions and investment firms to return to the real economy.
in writing. recession, unemployment, income cuts, inefficient and painful reforms, with no prospect of a european economic revival, are driving the shift from euroscepticism to indifference. at this rate, the european elections risk being the occasion for an irrational outburst of extremism. we are heading for the abrupt end of this shaky mandate of a european commission incapable of finding solutions to overcome the crisis. there's only one more year in which solidarity and efficiency can restore hope to the citizens. then we will wonder in vain why debt mutualisation was not done in time, why public and private investment was not stimulated to combat record unemployment, why banks were not required to separate credit from speculative operations? european citizens have already paid a painful bill for the crisis, including for the bank bailouts. next comes the maturity of an impossible debt, accumulated uselessly and paradoxically during austerity. the cyprus solution sets a precedent and shows that the european union still has no anti-crisis recipe other than to put its hand deeper and deeper into the taxpayer's pocket. urgent european action is needed to tackle the serious problems that are undermining living standards and confidence in the european project. otherwise, there is a major risk that the european elections will be the result of a toxic combination of indifference and the sanctioned vote of exasperated citizens.
in writing. the future of the european union means first and foremost the future, the expectations and hopes of some 500 million european citizens. the greatest concern of european citizens today is related to the lack of jobs. unemployment has reached alarming levels, and austerity measures have only made the jobless situation worse. unfortunately, it is the young people, who are the future of europe, who are the most affected by unemployment. austerity measures have also meant cuts in education and health budgets in many member states, sectors on which the future of the european union depends. i believe that measures such as those applied to cyprus and the imposition of austerity measures, not accompanied by measures for economic growth, weaken citizens' trust in the union and increase the risk of the growth of extremism. it is unacceptable that, as a result of the process of liberalisation of the european banking sector, citizens should share only in the losses and not in the profits of the institutions in this sector. it is unacceptable that today there are still barriers to the free movement of workers and that member states are faced with a regression from the social model on which the union was built. the union must defend the european social model, increase the competitiveness of industry in all member states and safeguard jobs throughout the union.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i support the revision made to the mandate and the task of enisa and the idea of empowering it for the new challenges in the area of network and information security. electronic networks and communications constitute the backbone of the european economy. this justifies an enhanced role and tasks for enisa and its critical position in defending the european digital ecosystem. enisa will now be responsible for analysing current and emerging risks in the information field. my colleague thinks that statistical information provided by the member states will produce a common response to cyber threats and cyber risk and reduce the difference in the levels of protection of our citizens.
as the new mandate technically takes the form of a completely new regulation for this agency, i believe it is a good opportunity to modernise it to manage the challenges of network and information security. i consider that the european network and information security agency should assist the union institutions and member states in their dialogue with this industry to address issues related to the security of hardware and software products and to work with relevant bodies, including those in the field of cybercrime, such as europol, to exchange experience and good practices and to provide advice on network and information security issues.
the increasing importance of communication and information networks in the efficient functioning of critical infrastructure, the increasing participation of european citizens in numerous virtual networks in multiple aspects: spending leisure time, purchasing goods and services, carrying out banking transactions, bring to the forefront extremely serious problems. protecting privacy, protecting identity, maintaining the security of public infrastructure, creating an area dominated by full freedom of expression are priorities that european policymakers must address. in these circumstances, i support the adoption of the report on the functioning of the european network and information security agency as a major step in identifying and combating potential threats to the security of european states and societies.
i voted in favour of the report because i support improving the functioning of the european network and information security agency. statistics show that cyber threats have increased dramatically in recent years, globally. recently, several government organizations in europe have faced an attack aimed at collecting confidential geopolitical information. such actions represent new forms of threats to the security of states. in 2012 and 2013, romania was the target of at least two major cyber attacks against state institutions and against several official it networks, but thanks to effective coordination between the intelligence services and the national cyber security incident response center, the attacks were thwarted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is vital that the mandate of the european network and information security agency (enisa) be extended until september 2013, thus allowing it to continue its work and allowing the european parliament to debate and analyse its future. since its establishment in 2004, enisa has proven to be a valuable agency for the european union through its successes in network and information security. however, in order to face the new challenges of the cyber environment, a reform is needed that will allow the agency to take on a more important role in combating cybercrime, but also to be able to cooperate more closely with member states on data protection and citizens' privacy issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to support the need to modernise and optimise the european network and information security agency. since its launch in 2004, the agency has made a significant contribution to improving network and information security. the new challenges of a constantly evolving cyber world have necessitated a debate on updating the agency's role and developing an extended mandate to incorporate new tasks and possibilities for cooperation with the competent authorities in the field of data protection and privacy. moreover, in the context of the global dimension of network and information security, the agency must be allowed to assume a coordinating role when there are disruptions in the institutional architecture, in order to continue the fight against cybercrime to an appropriate extent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the european network and information security agency (enisa). security incidents can undermine users' trust in technology, networks and services, thus affecting their ability to exploit the full potential of the internal market and the widespread use of information and communication technology (ict). internal market measures in the field of electronic communications security and, more generally, network and information security require the adoption of different types of technical and organisational applications by the member states and the institutions of the european union. the heterogeneous application of those requirements may harm efficiency and create obstacles to the internal market. for this reason, a european-level centre of expertise is needed to provide guidance, advice and assistance on network and information security issues on which member states and union institutions can rely. the adoption of this regulation will enable the agency to respond to these needs by developing and maintaining a high level of expertise and by providing assistance to member states, the union institutions and the business community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that in certain emergency situations the european commission must be able to intervene to remedy deficiencies, by means of delegated or implementing acts. in the current context, where overfishing is endangering many species, i think such a measure is welcome. often, though not fished, whales are accidentally caught in fishing nets, and their very existence is threatened. dolphins, in particular, are the most affected. therefore, the use of delegated acts to adapt the conditions and technical specifications for the use of acoustic intimidation devices is very important.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, for which i was the rapporteur of the ppe group. the report is technical, but it is important in that it represents a further step forward in aligning with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which allows parliament to decide, together with the council of ministers, on fisheries policy issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down measures concerning the incidental catching of cetaceans in fisheries and amending regulation (ec) no 88/98. whale populations have declined dramatically, with tens of thousands of cetaceans dying each year in eu waters. regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which is seriously flawed, concerns in particular the use of acoustic deterrents to prevent the incidental capture of cetaceans. whales face various threats, such as habitat degradation, ship collisions, and underwater noise pollution. it is therefore necessary to establish a comprehensive legislative framework for the protection of cetaceans. in order to ensure the effective adaptation of certain provisions to reflect technical and scientific progress, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be delegated to the commission in respect of the technical specifications and conditions for the use of acoustic intimidation devices. i also voted that by 31 december 2015 at the latest, the commission should review the effectiveness of the measures laid down in this regulation and present a comprehensive legislative proposal to ensure effective protection of cetaceans.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will help to strengthen the capacity of the republic of mauritius to combat illegal fishing. this will improve the infrastructure for monitoring and controlling fisheries in the area. the establishment of the partnership will lead to a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to the benefit of both parties. the agreement will also have far-reaching benefits for the development and diversification of the economy of the republic of mauritius. last but not least, i believe that aid for the conservation and management of natural resources will contribute to the sustainable development of the sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement. the commission has negotiated, on behalf of the european union, with the republic of mauritius and concluded a new fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of mauritius and a new protocol. the new agreement covers a period of six years from the date of signature and may be tacitly renewed for successive periods of three years. the general objective is to enhance cooperation between the european union and the republic of mauritius with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the mauritian fishing zone, in the interest of both parties. the new protocol contains more detailed clauses on the suspension and review of financial compensation, as well as on the suspension of the application of the protocol in certain circumstances, in particular in case of violation of essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles. for the european union, the conclusion of the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will contribute to the viability of european industries by providing eu vessels and the sectors of activity that depend on them with a stable legal environment and predictability in the medium term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it is necessary to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the european union has put in place the appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the payment of subsistence expenses, as an exceptional one-off contribution only, upon presentation of proof of the expenses incurred, is to be welcomed. i would stress the importance of effective and rapid cooperation between the commission and the member states in the process of preparing applications under the new egf regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. antonio merloni spa was the fifth largest manufacturer of household appliances in the european union and its closure had a significant negative impact on the economy of the marche and umbria regions. the allocation of eur 5 million for the 1 517 workers who have become unemployed is the fifth largest financial support granted by the egf to date, which the italian authorities must exploit to its full potential. it should be remembered that the first egf interventions in italy were compromised by the low participation rate of workers in labour market reintegration measures. the italian authorities must now ensure that as many workers as possible participate in these measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - application egf/2012/023 it/antonio merloni spa, italy. on 29 december 2011, italy submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in order to support the redundancies of 1 517 workers made redundant by the company specialising in household appliances antonio merloni spa. the italian authorities estimate the total costs at eur 7 749 972, of which the expenditure on personalised services at eur 7 451 972 and the expenditure on the implementation of the egf at eur 298 000 (3,84% of the total amount). the total contribution from the egf requested is eur 5 037 482 (65% of the total costs). workers receive personalised packages of services designed to ensure their reintegration into the labour market. the packages shall comprise, as appropriate: career guidance, assistance in finding a job, promotion of entrepreneurship, vocational training and updating of skills, guidance for workers over 50 years of age, allowance for finding a job, employment bonus, contribution to travel costs and contribution to the costs of changing residence.
in writing. − i voted for the report because, as the commission has acknowledged, the ict sectors have been hit by crises in the past. the egf also supported displaced ict workers, for example in the netherlands. i note that in three years, between 2008 and 2010, the unemployment rate in italy increased from 6,8% to 8,5%, and in eight of the 12 regions concerned there was an increase above the national average, from 1,9% to 2,6%. i would point out that the redundancies at agile will further aggravate the current fragile employment situation, especially in the southern regions where the prospects for economic recovery are less optimistic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i regret that the ict sector has been severely affected by the economic crisis, both in italy and in the rest of the european union. it is worrying that 30% of the workers laid off by agile s.r.l. have higher education and over 75% are aged between 24 and 54. the financial support of eur 3,6 million for 856 unemployed persons can contribute to their reintegration into the labour market only if they are also actively involved in the implementation of the proposed measures. i would once again ask the italian authorities to do everything possible to ensure that this money is spent in a transparent and visible way, for long-term employment in a very important sector such as ict.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - application egf/2011/016 it/agile, italy. on 30 december 2011, italy submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies in the it sector in italy caused by the closure of 1 257 jobs in agile s.r.l. the italian authorities estimate the total costs of these services at eur 5 676 115, of which the costs of personalised services at eur 5 458 115 and the costs of implementing the egf at eur 218 000 (3,84% of the total amount). the total contribution from the egf requested is eur 3 689 474 (65% of the total costs). workers who wish to complete their higher education studies with a postgraduate course will receive a contribution of eur 6 000 to reimburse the full/partial tuition fees for the programme concerned. workers setting up their own businesses will also receive eur 5 000 as a contribution towards setting up costs. these are just two of the measures that together make up a coordinated package of personalised services designed to ensure the reintegration of workers into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the institutions are committed to ensuring a swift and smooth decision-making procedure for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), providing one-off, time-limited individual support aimed at helping workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic crisis. the egf was established to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the pattern of world trade. i note that the austrian authorities submitted the application for a financial contribution from the egf on 20 december 2011 and that the evaluation was submitted by the european commission on 7 march 2013. i would point out that the closure of austria tabak, at that time the second largest employer in the district of bruck an der leitha, with many small businesses linked to the company, put the district in a particularly difficult situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - application egf/2011/010 at/austria tabak. the request was submitted by austria on 20 december 2011 following redundancies in austria tabak gmbh and 14 suppliers and downstream producers in austria. austria submitted the application in accordance with the intervention criterion laid down in article 2 (c) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the austrian authorities have explained that the request concerns the derogation from article 2 (a), which provides for a normal threshold of at least 500 redundancies in a four-month period. the application refers to a total of 320 redundancies in austria tabak gmbh, a temporary agency (posavac) and 13 other suppliers and downstream producers during the four-month reference period from 20 august 2011 to 19 december 2011. the austrian authorities estimate the total costs at eur 6 064 615, of which the costs for personalised services at eur 5 864 615 and the costs for the implementation of the egf at eur 200 000 (3,3% of the total amount). the total contribution from the egf requested is eur 3 941 999 (65% of the total costs).
the european union was founded and developed by imposing and upholding the principles of free trade and the free movement of capital. however, these principles must be linked to the imperative of reciprocity and the need to respect international norms. i therefore support the commission's proposal to provide a solution to the problem of the benefits of the special tariffs imposed, in the absence of ratification by some states of the economic partnership agreements with the european union. at the same time, these measures may lead to the decision-makers in the states concerned being pushed towards adopting these documents. the measure has the potential to resolve - as the commission's position shows - the issue of equal treatment of different states in the light of the legislation and the world trade organisation agreements. last but not least, the decision has the potential to stimulate the development of union trade in these regions and to promote the influence of the european union as a global player.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that only those states which have completed all the ratification procedures should benefit from the facilities offered by this legislative act. they also support the five-year time limit within which the commission may adopt delegated acts. this increases parliament's control over the way this regulation is implemented. i also consider that the inclusion in the annex of states that will ratify the agreement in the meantime should be done as quickly as possible, therefore the commission should have the right to amend the annex by means of delegated acts. however, the european parliament's scrutiny of those acts should continue to apply.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting the regulation amending annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 on the exclusion of a number of countries from the list of regions or states which have concluded negotiations. following the negotiations for economic partnership agreements (epas) with acp regions, several countries have neither taken the necessary steps to ratify an epa nor concluded comprehensive regional negotiations. the republic of burundi, the union of the comoros, the republic of ghana, the republic of kenya, the republic of namibia, the republic of rwanda, the united republic of tanzania, the republic of uganda and the republic of zambia have concluded negotiations but have not signed those agreements. the republic of botswana, the republic of cameroon, the republic of côte d'ivoire, the republic of the fiji islands, the republic of haiti, the kingdom of lesotho, the republic of mozambique, the kingdom of swaziland and the republic of zimbabwe have signed the agreements but have not taken the necessary steps to ratify them. the purpose of the adopted regulation is to amend the list of countries benefiting from trade preferences (annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007) by removing those countries which have not yet taken the necessary measures to ratify an epa. the commission has been authorised to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend annex i in order to restore the status of annex i excluded countries, if they take the necessary steps to ratify an epa.
in writing. - i voted against the change in the calendar because if the emission certificates had been withdrawn from the market, it could have led to an increase in the price of energy throughout europe for both household and industrial consumers. the commission considers that the change in the tendering calendar is a solution to achieve a structural reform of the system in the meantime. in romania, as a result of the liberalisation of electricity prices, prices could double by 2017 for household consumers. a further increase in the price due to intervention on the market for certificates could have very serious consequences for romanian citizens. also, in the context of studies showing that the 2020 emission reduction target will be achieved, i do not see why measures of the type proposed by the commission should be taken.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the commission's proposal to amend the auction calendar to postpone the release of 955 million emission allowances is as unnecessary as it is dangerous. the ets was designed as a market instrument to cap and progressively reduce co2 emissions by allowing participants in the scheme to trade in allowances. intervention in the market to stop the decline in the carbon price caused by the excess supply is contrary to the principles of the functioning of the market. delaying the trading of ets allowances will inevitably result in an increase in energy prices. these bills will be paid directly and indirectly by private consumers, because the industrialists will be forced to cover their costs through high prices. european industry will lose competitiveness to low-priced imports from outside the eu, which is contrary to the reindustrialisation target recently launched by the european commission. the carbon market is functioning, and the price is only reflecting the severe economic and financial crisis of the last few years. the economic recovery will drive up the price of carbon without the need for the european commission to intervene.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 20, which rejects the commission's proposal. the proposed 'end-of-period concentration' of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be traded in 2013-2020 could result in the european union losing investments and jobs. i believe that we must want an industry which produces more and pollutes less, not one which does not pollute simply because it does not produce, while european citizens are worried about their jobs.
in writing. − the european commission considers that the proper functioning of the european carbon market, which is in transition to phase three, will be increasingly affected by the increase in net supply combined with the decline in demand. in this context, the commission proposed that the possibility of adapting the calendar for each period be introduced in the directive. the commission's objective is to raise the price of emission allowances by blocking the auctioning of 900 million allowances for a period of five years. the price of the certificates is the result of a wide range of factors, but the economic downturn in 2009 undoubtedly had a major impact on prices. i am against arbitrary and unpredictable interventions in the carbon market because i believe that they can negatively affect both the carbon market and the industry. also, artificially increasing the price of carbon will cause electricity prices to rise, carbon dioxide emissions to shift and unemployment to rise. i therefore voted for amendment no 20 by which the european parliament rejects the commission's proposal to amend directive 2003/87/ec by clarifying the provisions on the timing of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions.
i strongly support the rapporteur's amendments which provide legal clarity to this decision and send a positive signal to international partners that the european union does not want the legislation in force to stand in the way of a global agreement, but at the same time stress that if the desired result is not achieved, the union will return to applying its own rules on greenhouse gas emission trading and for the aviation sector. the european union must reaffirm its leadership on climate change and, through the negotiations in the international civil aviation organisation, make every effort to make the signing of a global agreement a reality within the one year period available to it.
i voted in favour of the report because global warming can only be effectively tackled through an international effort, as carbon emissions do not remain within national borders. even though aviation currently generates around 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions, its level is increasing rapidly and the inclusion of the sector in the emissions trading system has only created a uniform framework for all transport sectors. however, in order not to affect the competitiveness of the aviation industry, the system must be extended to international flights. i believe that in the absence of such a decision, competition in the aviation sector would be distorted, with potentially serious consequences for airlines in the union, and that the best solution is to conclude an international agreement to regulate aviation emissions in a transparent and uniform manner.
in writing. − the aviation sector is strongly international in nature and therefore global aviation emissions problems can only be effectively managed through an international approach. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) plays a key role in this process by setting common objectives in an international agreement. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this regulation. the commission's proposal to suspend the application of the eu ets for intercontinental flights for one year reinforces the positive attitude within icao and increases the chances of a successful conclusion of the icao general assembly in 2013. the proposal removes legal uncertainties on airline obligations and sends a clear message to international negotiating partners. the european union wants an international agreement and is open to negotiating the best forms of market measures to address aviation emissions in a similar way to addressing emissions from other sectors. the commission should provide the european parliament with a full progress report at the icao assembly in september 2013 and swiftly propose actions based on these results.
in writing. − i support this report because it is very important, in the context of the amplification of climate change, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from airlines. although the aviation sector has been included in the union's greenhouse gas emission trading scheme (eu-ets) since 2008, it has benefited from preferential treatment over other industries and modes of transport when it comes to reducing emissions. unfortunately, we are currently seeing an alarming increase in emissions from air travel (especially intercontinental flights). the european union, together with the international civil aviation organisation (icao), must take the necessary measures to put an end to this uncontrolled increase in gas emissions, which is exacerbating climate problems and increasing the use of fossil fuels.
in writing. − welcomes the rapporteur's proposal to use the proceeds of the auctioning of allowances or any other equivalent amount to finance contributions to the global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy and the green climate fund under the unfccc to finance measures to prevent deforestation and facilitate adaptation to the effects of climate change in developing countries. those measures can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to the effects of climate change in the european union and third countries, to the financing of research and development to mitigate and adapt to those effects, and to the costs of managing the eu ets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of temporarily and exceptionally suspending intercontinental flights from the eu ets emissions trading scheme applied to the aviation sector to stimulate progress in international negotiations on the development of a global market measure to combat aviation emissions. the global problems caused by aviation emissions can only be effectively addressed at international level, through a set of rules and obligations to be respected by each actor individually, in order to avoid distorting competition or slowing down efforts to combat climate change. the international civil aviation organization (icao) is tasked with regulating emissions, developing an effective global system to reduce the increasing levels of emissions generated by the aviation sector. the suspension of the application of the ets to intercontinental flights will not affect the level of ambition in terms of environmental protection, but will ensure that aviation industry participants are subject to the same set of rules until the ets is developed.
in writing. − i supported this proposal to allow more – although strictly limited – time for international discussions on co2 emissions from aircraft to be completed. it has proved a difficult issue to resolve, but the beginning of phase three of the ets has brought a new sense of urgency to the discussions. the eu is again driving the international debate on climate policy and bringing our international partners to the negotiating table so all parties can agree on a fair and effective solution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme. global warming can only be effectively addressed through an international approach. the union decided in 2008 to include aviation in its emissions trading scheme (ets) from 2012. the court of justice confirmed in 2011 that the inclusion in the ets of emissions from third country aircraft departing from or arriving at community airports is legally admissible. in november 2012, icao made significant progress on market measures to address emissions from international aviation. the european commission therefore decided to send a message to the negotiating partners and proposed to 'stop the clock'. a one-year derogation offers better prospects for reaching a satisfactory international agreement this year, rather than maintaining the current legislation. if no satisfactory international agreement is reached to address aviation emissions, all international flights will be included again from 2013. we stress that parliament should be able to assess the outcome of the icao negotiations before further measures are proposed by the european commission.
credit institutions and investment firms should be subject to similar scrutiny and to uniform criteria in all member states. administrative sanctions and measures, which must be applied strictly and uniformly, must be reported and published. i therefore call on the member states to establish and apply, without exception, dissuasive financial penalties, in other words very large fines, and to make them known to the public - all for natural and legal persons who have unlawfully obtained benefits or avoided losses. speaking of losses, i'd like to draw attention to the financial losses due to corruption. researchers at germany's hertie university in berlin estimated that if all member states collected taxes at the same level as denmark, over 300 billion euros would have been collected in 2012, twice the budget of the european union. this money has been lost.
overcoming the effects of the financial crisis depends crucially on the stability and sustainability of credit institutions and investment firms. reducing the external costs faced by these actors is one of the priorities that european decision-makers must take into account. at the same time, the union must ensure that the process of safeguarding systemic financial institutions must not become an additional burden for european taxpayers or bona fide depositors. the stabilisation of the financial system needs to be coordinated with the proper functioning of the internal market. harmonising european regulations can lead to increased transparency and accountability in the financial system, thus establishing the conditions for sustainable growth and development. the legislative process must, however, maintain the effectiveness of the fundamental principle for the union, the free movement of capital. last but not least, the european union must continue, including at this level, to combat tax evasion by strengthening and streamlining the process of collecting and distributing relevant information to the supervisory authorities in different member states.
i voted in favour of the report because the coordination of national provisions on the activity of credit institutions and investment firms, their governance arrangements and their supervisory framework is very important. i support the set of compromises negotiated during the trilogue with the council presidency. we are in a difficult situation because we have not yet overcome the crisis. in this context, we need to find the right balance, to create a functioning financial and banking space, capable of financing the growth we need at the moment in the european economy. at the same time, we need to facilitate access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises and encourage small-scale banking. i welcome the fact that the specificities of the member states' markets have been taken into account. it is also imperative that the supervisory power and the instruments of prudential supervision be held exclusively by the competent authorities.
in writing. − excessive reliance on external credit ratings should be reduced and all automatic effects of credit ratings should be phased out. the rules should therefore require credit institutions and investment firms to establish rigorous criteria and decision-making processes for the granting of credit. external credit ratings may be used as a factor among others in this process, but institutions should not rely solely and mechanically on external ratings and they should not prevail. i believe that, in addition to the supervision aimed at ensuring financial stability, there is a need to improve the mechanisms for supervision and the prevention of possible bubbles, in order to ensure the optimal allocation of capital taking into account the macroeconomic challenges and objectives, in particular with regard to long-term investment in the real economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the role of credit institutions in the current economic crisis has been underestimated for a long time. the current proposal provides for detailed rules on liquidity supervision and will increase the level of transparency in banking, which is being called for by various non-governmental organisations and the majority of society. increased transparency will help credit and banking institutions regain some of the trust they lost from citizens with the onset of the economic crisis and will increase the efficiency of the eu's internal market. another positive aspect of the current report is the creation of a pan-european blacklist of troubled bankers, which the authorities will have to verify before a banker is hired.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive of the parliament and of the council, on the basis of the commission's proposal, for stricter regulation of the activity of credit institutions and for the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms. the financial crisis has demonstrated the major interdependencies between the banking system and the speculative sphere, with potentially catastrophic consequences for the balance of the banking system and the lives of citizens. it is important that credit institutions have internal capital adequate to the risks they face, transparency, information exchange and market discipline are essential and, not least, banking supervision must always aim to protect the interests of depositors. i support the idea of encouraging small-scale banking through credit unions and mutual funds, as such structures allow for more effective supervision and prudent management and can lead to the formation of a sustainable and diversified banking culture.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms and amending directive 2002/87/ec on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate. the commission has proposed a legal framework consisting of two legal instruments: a directive and a regulation. it regulates banking activities and lays down prudential rules applicable to credit institutions and investment firms. the directive contains provisions governing the authorisation of business, the acquisition of qualifying holdings, the exercise of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, the powers of the supervisory authorities of the home and host member states in this area, and provisions governing initial capital and the prudential analysis of credit institutions and investment firms. the main objective of the directive is to coordinate national provisions on access to the business of credit institutions and investment firms, their governance arrangements and their supervisory framework. it lays down uniform and directly applicable prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms.
thanks to intense negotiations by parliament, for the first time banks will report financial statements broken down by each country where they have branches, and not just at the general level. this will certainly lead to greater transparency in the declaration of profits and better collection of taxes paid in each country. but let's be realistic because all these documents that we adopt will be just letters on paper and will have no effect. the most important thing is to eliminate tax havens in the european union and also to legally pursue and confiscate money in tax havens anywhere in the world, in the union or outside it. i want to give you some figures: the investigative journalism network called the tax justice network published a study in april 2013 that found that there's up to 25 trillion euros in tax havens. also, offshore leagues has just this month published 130,000 offshore accounts. this is the money we need to get back.
the scale and effects of the global economic crisis make it imperative to strengthen the international financial system. policies that increase the transparency, accountability and predictability of financial institutions and dynamics are essential to successfully overcome the consequences of the crisis, which has significantly eroded the living standards of european citizens. at the same time, i support the adoption at european level of legislative measures capable of leading to the creation of a harmonised legal framework for european financial actors. only by harmonising the provisions in this area can we create the conditions for sustainable economic development. i also believe that we must bear in mind that the recovery of european economies cannot take place without a certain increase in competitiveness. while it is important to establish global guidelines on the sustainability of financial systems, it is important that the regulatory process does not place european economic actors at a disadvantage.
the commission has also taken into account the fact that the us is the largest market for the euro banknotes and coins in the world. i want to congratulate mr. karas on a very well-structured report. for reasons of legal certainty, a single set of rules for all market participants is a key element for the functioning of the internal market. in order to avoid market distortion and regulatory arbitrage, measures should ensure a maximum degree of harmonisation. the transitional periods provided for are therefore essential for the proper implementation of this regulation and to avoid uncertainty in the markets. member states and competent authorities should avoid adopting divergent or anticipatory rules which affect or weaken the principle of maximum harmonisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. the scale of the financial crisis has revealed a number of unacceptable risks inherent in the current regulation of financial institutions. according to imf estimates, the losses incurred by european credit institutions between 2007 and 2010 as a result of the crisis amount to approximately eur 1 trillion or 8% of the gdp of the european union. in order to restore stability to the banking sector and to ensure the continued availability of credit to the real economy, both the european union and its member states have adopted a wide range of unprecedented measures the costs of which have been borne, in the last resort, by taxpayers. in this context, by october 2010 the commission had approved eur 4 600 billion of state aid for financial institutions, of which more than eur 2 000 billion was actually used in 2008 and 2009. the proposal for a regulation contains the globally developed and agreed elements of the capital and liquidity standards applicable to credit institutions, known as basel iii, and harmonises other provisions in existing legislation.
the evolution of this report proves that the pursuit of objectives can also go beyond the rejection of a report. it was rejected in december, for example, and positive changes were made, and today it has been adopted. it's about changes that will help the passengers. many of us, many of the citizens of europe and the planet use airports and as such will benefit from measures to ensure that they spend less time at airports. for example, they will benefit from minimum quality standards for services at large airports, reducing check-in times and baggage delays. all this will lead to optimisation of air traffic and, again, the most important thing: it will take care of people's precious time when they have to travel and travel.
in writing. − ground handling services are essential for the smooth running of air operations. given that the turnover of ground handling services is eur 50 billion and the number of jobs in this sector is estimated to be at least 60 000 across europe, we need an effective european legal framework. member states should ensure that wage dumping is prevented not only for employees in the ground handling sector but also in the event of a transfer of staff, in order to ensure adequate social standards and to improve the quality of ground handling services. the competent authorities of the member states should take into account trade union rights and collective bargaining in the field of ground handling services in order to ensure adequate social protection for staff recruited for the provision of those services. in order to mitigate the negative effects of liberalisation in the ground handling services sector, airport managing authorities should define and apply mandatory minimum quality of service standards in the interests of safety, reliability and efficiency of operations.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal on an adequate level of social protection and appropriate working conditions for the staff of companies providing this type of ground handling services, including for companies that have subcontracted the work, as well as the development and continuous training of staff. it is appropriate to establish minimum standards to ensure optimal quality levels of education and training of ground handling staff, which need to be updated regularly, in order to contribute to the quality of operations in terms of reliability, resilience, safety and security and to create a level playing field for all operators.
in writing. − ground handling services ensure the smooth running of air operations. as a result, we have a turnover of 50 billion euros, which forces us to pay more attention to this area of activity. i support the commission's report both from the economic and social point of view, so as not to disproportionate the flow of wages and production costs. following the liberalisation in 1996 and 2012 respectively, competition created a high volume of activity and a decrease in prices on the handling market. in order to avoid wage dumping, which could affect the quality and safety of services, we should adopt the new changes and new guarantees offered by the commission in the new report.
in writing. − groundhandling services are essential for the 800 million passengers who use european union airports every year. following the adoption of this report, the large airports will have to work with at least three providers, which will enable improvements in the quality of the services but will also lower prices. with this new version of the report, only airports which have more than 15 million passengers or 200 000 tonnes of goods in transit will have to apply these liberalisation measures. the report on which parliament voted on 16 april 2013 will also allow significant progress in terms of social guarantees and will protect workers from dismissal or replacement by other less costly staff. for example, a provider who obtains a new contract will have to keep the employees hired by the previous administrator. the negotiations on the airport package can now start with the commission and the council.
in writing. − the rapid development of air traffic and the resulting constraints on the capacity of ground-based service providers raise the question of the efficiency, quality and safety of air transport activities. ground handling services are essential for the smooth operation of air transport in the eu, considering that in 2011 alone some 777 million passengers travelled in the union's airspace, with a slight decrease in the recent period, according to eurostat data. the liberalisation of ground handling activities is fraught with risks. following the opening up of the services market by directive 96/67/ec, the results were less satisfactory: temporary jobs, wage increases below inflation, but also a decline in quality. in the field of ground services, the opening of the market has led to lower safety standards, poor service, a lack of a uniform system, and numerous disruptions and delays in air passenger and cargo traffic. i support the rapporteur's position because i believe that the forced liberalisation of ground services cannot guarantee the efficient and safe operation of air transport activities or the respect of the rules and working conditions for employees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on ground handling services at european union airports. in december 2012, the european parliament voted to reject and refer the proposal back to the european commission, with the main criticism referring to the social impact of the liberalisation of ground handling services for employees. ground handling services are vital to the smooth running of air operations. the continued liberalisation of the market in ground handling services should not be to the detriment of workers. member states should ensure, by means of legislation, that the staff of undertakings providing ground handling or own-handling services benefit from an adequate level of social security and working conditions, including in the case of subcontracting and service contracts. where the competent authorities of a member state find that the required standards are not being met at a particular airport, the accreditation of service providers or own-handling services shall be suspended, withdrawn or withheld until the appropriate standard is again reached. we stress the importance of introducing the representative collective agreement so that all ground handling suppliers and subcontractors must implement the representative collective agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support the ban on discarding skagerrak catches. i also welcome the fact that implementing rules are being put in place to ensure effective control of compliance by fishing vessels. the regulation lays down the rules applicable in the areas of the skagerrak under the jurisdiction of denmark and sweden. it would apply to all vessels fishing in those areas, including vessels from norway. conversely, eu vessels would be subject to norwegian rules if they fish in areas of the skagerrak under norwegian jurisdiction. unfortunately, there is no reliable information on the total amount of fish that is thrown back into the sea, so i advocate a precautionary approach. i also believe that the proposed amendments ensure the development of a sustainable fisheries sector at continental level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on certain technical and control measures in the skagerrak and amending regulation (ec) no 850/98 and regulation (ec) no 1342/2008. the european union shares many of its fishing waters with non-eu countries. the skagerrak and the north sea are the only seas where a non-eu member state (norway) has introduced a landing obligation. this regulation therefore lays down new technical and control measures in those areas of the skagerrak which fall under the jurisdiction of a member state. in order to ensure adequate monitoring of fishing activities, in particular as regards verification at sea of compliance with the obligation to land all catches from stocks subject to catch limits, it is necessary for member states to introduce an electronic remote monitoring system (rem). the rem system should be based on automatic control, data should be processed in accordance with data protection rules and should be available for research purposes.
i suggest that the european commission should examine in its report on the application of directive 113/2004 cases of discrimination linked to pregnancy and difficulties in obtaining loans. i say this because there are member states where women entrepreneurs, especially single mothers, are frequently discriminated against when they try to obtain loans or credit for their businesses and still face obstacles based on gender stereotypes. a public database of legislation and case law on gender discrimination would be very useful in these cases.
young women are discriminated against anyway by their peers at the end of their careers, when they are expected to have extensive previous professional activity, which is impossible for the simple reason that being so young they have not had time to acquire this experience. so it's unacceptable to be discriminated against when you have to choose between having a child or a career. this is unacceptable in a modern society and that is why i join those who support making 2014 the 'european year of reconciling work and family life' and hope that the european commission will declare it so. studies show that a significant number of women face discrimination at work when they are pregnant or after they have given birth to a child.
in writing. − the european union and the member states must work together to avoid the discrimination that occurs in some eu countries against women entrepreneurs, especially single mothers, when they try to obtain loans or credit for their businesses and who still face obstacles based on gender stereotypes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i want to reiterate the request to the european commission to submit to parliament a report on the transposition of the directive implementing the principle of equal treatment in the access to and supply of goods and services. the directive is a very important step for gender equality and addresses the fight against gender discrimination outside employment for the first time at eu level. it also prohibits the less favourable treatment of women on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity, as well as harassment of any kind and the imposition of a discriminatory approach to the provision of goods or services. the transposition report is necessary to assess the consequences and the degree of implementation of the directive in the member states, to identify gaps and to draw up recommendations to overcome them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. for the first time at eu level, a directive addresses gender equality outside the field of employment. we need to pay more attention to national bodies promoting gender equality. the european commission needs to monitor more closely how these bodies are fulfilling their tasks. the commission must also be transparent about the procedures for finding that these bodies have failed to fulfil their obligations and about the measures taken against them when irregularities are detected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the transposition and application of council directive 2004/113/ec on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. directive 2004/113/ec aims to establish a framework for combating discrimination on grounds of sex in the access to and supply of goods and services, with a view to implementing in the member states the principle of equal treatment between men and women. unfortunately, there are problems at european level, particularly in the area of access to and supply of goods and services. it is therefore necessary to prevent and eliminate discrimination on grounds of gender in this area. we call on the commission to review directive 2004/113 and to include mandatory provisions aimed at clarifying the situation with regard to insurance companies and related financial services. the commission and the member states should also take concrete measures to ensure that both women and men can make full and appropriate use of the directive as an effective tool for protecting their rights relating to equal treatment in access to all goods and services.
mr president, the european union and its member states are the largest providers of aid for trade in the world. in 2010 the european union committed eur 10.7 billion, thus accounting for around one third of total worldwide aid for trade. however, opening up to trade alone is not enough to achieve sustainable development. development needs well-functioning institutions, a healthy private sector, the pursuit of broad-based and inclusive economic development and, of course, an effective fight against tax evasion and corruption. therefore i support the proposal for country-by-country reporting as part of the revision of the accounting and transparency directive. i believe that a stronger focus should be directed towards bribery and corruption in the extractive sector in order to address and solve the resource-caused phenomenon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that promoting development through trade must be a priority to support developing countries economically. in this respect, modernising the means of production, making them more efficient and increasing profitability must be constant objectives that can only be achieved by consolidating the efforts made so far. i believe that in order to achieve these objectives, the diversification of the economies of poor countries must also be promoted, while at the same time modern and profitable production is encouraged. we need to ensure that trade policies adopted at union level will bring about positive changes in the national economies of developing countries and that they, in turn, can contribute to the world economy. at the same time, the eu must consider supporting and developing small and medium-sized enterprises in poor countries at local level as a development policy objective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because trade is one of the european union's core policies for promoting development in the least developed countries. development must be supported by other means than just humanitarian aid, and trade is an effective way to support sustainable growth for the very poorest countries. at the same time, the european union must promote the principle of good governance, closely linked to its trade policy, in order to ensure genuine economic and social development. therefore, before initiating any type of cooperation, the eu must ensure that a certain degree of transparency is achieved and that the third country follows the correct procedures.
in writing. − trade is a human activity that concerns us all and involves us all every day. as such, the rules that govern this activity concern and involve all of us, though not to the same extent. i believe that participation in world trade can generate wealth, enabling both eu member states to ensure a better quality of life for their citizens and development opportunities for developing countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on advancing development through trade as i think that both the eu's trade and aid policies should contribute to stimulating sustainable and inclusive growth in developing countries. more than just a political responsibility, it is also a moral duty to support developing countries in their efforts to reduce poverty. in order to ensure that trade is an efficient driver for growth, focus should be made on investing in developing country's trade capacity that will later empower local and national authorities to improve people’s living conditions. nevertheless, international trade agreements must not hold states back from legislating in favour of their citizens. because respect for, and the promotion of, human rights are part of the european union’s acquis, i very much welcome the inclusion of human rights provisions in the eu's future bilateral trade and cooperation agreements. furthermore, i believe that fair trade relations with developing countries require the eu to undertake a broader approach to trade negotiations, taking into consideration relevant aspects such as corporate social responsibility, labour rights, and food security.
in writing. - i voted against some paragraphs of the resolution which i do not consider correct, in particular paragraphs 6 and 35 and recital j. these paragraphs contain unjustified references directed against european agriculture, which is excessively associated with some negative effects on trade and development. i think parliament should be more cautious when it approaches the subject of agriculture in such terms. i regret that some of these references were approved by the plenary, which is why i voted against them in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted for the svensson report on promoting development through trade. the european union must, however, fight against the land grabbing of developing countries by big business and must also insist in the wto negotiations on the elimination of subsidies to farmers in food insecure countries who exploit land for purposes other than food production, such as the production of biofuels. also, eu-based companies that register their production in developing countries must respect human rights and freedoms, social and environmental standards, gender equality, basic labour standards and, in particular, the prohibition of child labour.
in writing. − i voted for the report on promoting development through trade as poverty reduction and the pursuit of the millennium development goals are central components of the european union's development policy and should also guide the eu's trade policy towards developing countries. fair trade between the european union and developing countries must be based on full compliance with and guaranteeing ilo labour standards and working conditions and must ensure the application of the highest possible social and environmental standards. we believe that for agreements to lead to development, a more flexible approach from the european union is needed, which encourages the diversification of the economies of the acp countries (african, caribbean, pacific countries) with more processing activities and regional trade. we underline the vital importance of promoting public-private partnerships on growth initiatives in european union development policies and of involving the experience, expertise and management systems of the private sector in partnership with public resources. we ask that experience be made available to local authorities in the member states of the european union, for example in setting up infrastructure to fraternize and cooperate with local authorities in developing countries.
mr president, this aid which we give to partner developing countries should be directed to strengthening support for domestic reforms, reinforcing good governance and anti-corruption measures, and improving trading capacities in developing countries, and we should never forget that tax evasion is very important as a top priority to be fought against. many developing countries are still not fully benefiting from trade. for example, the 49 least-developed countries account for only 1.12% of world trade and are unable to obtain capital other than through foreign aid and basic exploitation of natural resources. i believe eu trade should differentiate and give special attention to the least-developed countries.
in writing. − international trade is an important source of finance, which is why i believe that developing countries should be supported in order to better integrate into the multilateral trading system. a modern trade policy is needed that supports and promotes sustainable development and can ensure non-inflationary growth; moreover, the protection of environmental resources, the promotion of social equality and the protection of intellectual property rights must remain a priority. trade at local and regional level should also be encouraged through trade agreements between the eu and partner countries. in order to improve the investment climate, i support the adoption of domestic reforms that promote international labour and environmental standards, reduce transport costs and lead to increased agricultural and industrial productivity.
in writing. − it is well known that the european union, together with the member states, provides the largest amount of humanitarian aid to developing countries, and therefore the european union's role is fundamental in development policies. aid through trade is a good way to ensure inclusive and sustainable development for the least developed countries. they also support the commission's policies aimed at creating a closer link between development and trade. the increase in trade will lead to the development of the private sector, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises, so necessary for a healthy economy. the increase in the number of smes will also increase the economic resilience of ldcs in the event of external shocks.
in writing. − i believe that self-employed farmers and small cooperatives in developing countries should be supported to develop sustainable farming, fishing and breeding practices that enable them to create, strengthen and diversify supply chains, to improve their access to finance and microfinance, and to gain access to information to align with international sanitary and phytosanitary standards.
in writing. − i voted for the report on trade and investment-driven growth for developing countries because i believe that the eu should have a coherent approach to trade and investment in order to achieve tangible results for sustainable growth in developing countries. we need to foster synergies between trade and development policies in area like agriculture, services, and industry, and to coordinate investment policies at the european level. i strongly support the calls for the establishment of full transparency in our trade relations with developing countries, as it is essential to ensure that trade and investment contribute to improving the living conditions of the populations. since capacity and institution-building are key components of development, i think that improving fiscal governance and fighting against corruption, as well as ensuring an open and participative dialogue with civil society in developing countries, is vital to guaranteeing that investment and trade benefit the citizens. to this end, the eu should include in its trade agreements relevant provisions to encourage responsible investor behaviour and supervise corporate payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and particularly welcome the references to agriculture as a driver of economic and sustainable growth and development. supporting farmers who are self-employed in strengthening and diversifying supply chains, improving access to finance, increasing the added value of products are necessary measures in the agricultural sector. they also support measures to encourage the importation into the eu of agricultural products that meet the required environmental standards.
in writing. - i voted for the report on trade and investment, engines of growth for developing countries. trade and investment between the european union, developing countries and least developed countries are means of stimulating sustainable and inclusive growth for all, enabling technology and skills transfers and contributing to job creation, enabling increased competitiveness and productivity, as well as achieving greater social cohesion and tackling inequality. we urge the european union to design its trade agreements in such a way as to promote responsible investor behaviour and compliance with international best practices on corporate social responsibility and good corporate governance. we underline that social entrepreneurship and social innovation in developing countries are engines of growth for development and make it possible to reduce inequalities and foster growth, as the benefits are reinvested in the economy. we believe that when used as drivers of growth and sustainable economic development, trade and investment should pursue specific objectives in agriculture, industry, services and administration, while developing the production and infrastructure that they require.
the austerity measures dictated by the 'troika' have caused, for 3 years, an alarming increase in unemployment and the dismantling of the welfare state, with extremely serious consequences, especially for the young and the most vulnerable. in 2011, 27,3% of the population of greece was at risk of poverty and 11% were in a situation of severe material deprivation, without access to electricity and heat. i believe that we cannot allow the european central bank to limit its activity to controlling inflation and to ignore the consequences of its actions on the economic and social situation in europe. in the context of imbalances between the central and peripheral economies, the european central bank proposes a policy geared exclusively to the strongest economies, thus sacrificing, i believe, the future of the majority and the stability of the union as a whole. therefore, growth and job creation are much more important criteria for exiting recession than price stability, and these must become the main objectives of the european central bank. the bank cannot continue to refuse to provide direct financial support to euro area states, given that it offers this type of support to banking entities. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the decisions of the 'troika', which have such important consequences for the lives of europeans, must be subject to democratic control. that is why i think the troika should be held accountable to the european parliament for the actions it is taking.
unemployment in the euro area rose from 10% at the end of 2010 to 10.7% at the end of 2011, with young people being the most affected. over the same period, loans to the private sector fell from 2.4% to 1.2%. i believe that maintaining a flow of credit to smes is particularly important as they employ 72% of the euro area workforce. what is the european central bank's strategy to support growth and reduce unemployment in the european union? finally, i call on the european central bank to follow the recommendations of the commission and the european parliament on improving the gender balance in high-level decision-making bodies in the economic sector. i would stress that the absence of women on the executive board of the european central bank is contrary to the principles enshrined in the treaty on equality between women and men.
parliament's discharge is always a sensitive subject, highly politicized and often highly publicized. i want to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ortiz, because she has managed to overcome many of the pitfalls of the past years and we have an objective report, a serious report, which we can also put out to the press very well. when we talk about the discharge for 2011, we must bear in mind that this is the second year since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the second year in which the procedures have stabilised somewhat, but also a year in which many other procedures have entered a transitional phase, such as, for example, the internalisation of the european parliament's security. it is also very important to say that in a time of crisis, as representatives of the citizens, we must stand in solidarity with them and the european parliament's expenditure must be taken much more seriously, much more closely watched by us, not only by those outside the european parliament, and we must note that, although parliament has additional powers, it has managed to fit into the budget it had at its disposal, thanks to the efficient spending of the money it had at its disposal. we're talking about a new bid for a travel agency, and i think it's very important that when we're talking about a future agency, we also talk about auditing the agency's business, because it's very important to see how we're going to fit within the money that we have and how low the transportation costs are. last but not least, it is very important that we finance all the projects that promote the work of the european parliament - and i am talking about the communication centre, the house of european history and all the projects that bring groups of citizens from all over europe to visit the european parliament, to see the work of the european parliament and to gain confidence in this institution.
as regards the discharge to the european commission, i consider that the error rate on payments, identified at 3,9% by reference to the total budget, especially in the area of rural development policies ( 7% and regional policy, energy and transport ( 6%), as well as the shortcomings in the control system, remain major problems that need to be addressed quickly. the effectiveness of mechanisms for measuring progress and identifying errors in the implementation of various european policies and projects, and mainly at the level of payments, needs to be increased. the commission should reassess and increase the efficiency of the mechanism for the collection of traditional own resources. reliable data on differences in member states' contributions through vat and customs duties are required. it is expected that an assessment and, by implication, a neutralisation of the sometimes considerable differences between member states in the budgetary contribution in this segment would alleviate some problems that arise subsequently in budget implementation. the high level of error rate in shared management in cohesion policy is also problematic. an important step in improving this situation is to hold the member state responsible by strengthening the safeguards it provides. the structural funds could be used to simplify excessive or exclusive union contribution to certain policies. an example of this could be the policy of decommissioning nuclear power stations, where member states could use their structural funds to reduce the commission's contribution.
mr president, i support the decision of the committee on budgetary control to postpone their decision on discharge for the executive director of the european environment agency. further clarifications on the procurement of video-production contracts are needed before an informed decision can be reached. olaf is currently investigating these contracts. we must wait for the conclusions of the olaf investigation – which will come soon – before we take a final decision on whether or not to grant discharge. how does it look to our citizens if we rush to grant discharge to an executive director while olaf is investigating the procurement process? this investigation is still ongoing. i do not think it will look as if we are protecting taxpayers’ money. it is only fair to our citizens to take an informed decision after olaf’s findings are made available. this will mean taking our decision one way or the other in the autumn. next, i would like to say that i am satisfied that conflict of interest has become an important issue for both the court of auditors and for us in this parliament. it is important to european citizens and therefore it must be important to us. i trust that conflict of interest will stay high on the discharge agenda in all the years to come. and lastly, in the name of transparency, i call once again on all agencies to make available on their websites a list of their management board members, management staff and external and in-house experts, together with their respective declarations of interest and curriculum vitae. this is a way of preventing conflicts of interest, managing them and also of being open with the public. thank you.
i support the discharge to be given to the european agency for network and information security for the financial year 2011. the work of the agency is of particular importance for the security of information networks in europe. the construction of the agency's new headquarters in heraklion, equipped with state-of-the-art equipment and adapted to its operational needs, was completed in 2011 at a cost of eur 6 million according to the agency's technical specifications. i draw the attention of the commission and the agency's management to the need to dimension enisa's budget in line with its tasks and responsibilities, so that the bulk of the budget is allocated to operational activities. the court of auditors found that 33% of the appropriations for the agency's operational budget had been carried over, which may indicate delays in the implementation of its work and is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. although the situation has improved compared to the previous year, i believe that firm action is still needed to achieve better budget planning and execution.
the visa facilitation agreement will allow ukrainian citizens to travel more easily within the union. simplifying the requirements for documents justifying the purpose of travel will make it easier for young people to travel, which will encourage their mobility. but i would like to point out that in order to move forward in the dialogue with the union, ukraine must take concrete steps to strengthen democracy. more and more european citizens are being banned from entering ukraine. i take this opportunity to point out that recently, on 1 april, mr vlad burnea, a romanian citizen, that is, a european, a member of the romanian parliament, was informed at the border crossing that he was not allowed to enter ukraine, without being told the reason. he was going to cernăuţi to participate in an action of the romanian community.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs hübner for her excellent cooperation and for her willingness to include in the compromise amendments the additions i proposed to this report. in practice, the proposal for a regulation establishing a financial assistance mechanism for member states whose currency is not the euro responds to a vital need to ensure a level playing field for non-euro area countries, in a context where the economic crisis has affected the whole of the european union, causing a deterioration in the public deficit, the balance of payments and the overall debt. unlike the euro area countries, which benefit from the european stability mechanism with a lending capacity of eur 500 billion, non-euro area countries can access limited funds of up to eur 50 billion through the balance of payments facility. i welcome the increase from 12 billion to 50 billion in 2009, but this is still far below the amount available to the euro area countries. however, the commission proposal aims to align the conditions and procedures for obtaining a financial loan with those specific to the countries which have adopted the single currency. basically, equal obligations mean, and should mean, equal benefits. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to create a bank recapitalisation facility for non-euro countries. member states outside the euro area also need a fiscal backstop. however, a direct bank recapitalisation instrument would be preferable, with the aim of avoiding the fragmentation of the single market and lower competitiveness for member states that have not yet joined the single currency.
mr president, my country – romania – received financial assistance from the union in a very difficult moment of this current crisis, and i would like to express my gratitude to all member states and european institutions for this help. however, when in difficulties, the countries outside the eurozone feel that they do not have access to the same range of financial instruments as the eurozone countries have. i therefore fully support the proposal of mrs hübner, our rapporteur, to raise this issue in the report. in particular i support the proposal to create a special financial instrument for the recapitalisation of banks and to attach to this instrument a conditionality requiring sound monetary, fiscal and economic policies.
the revision of the existing regulation would allow member states whose currency is not the euro to have instruments similar to those of euro area countries. my country was among the first to benefit from financial assistance from the union, thanks to the balance of payments assistance mechanism. through the assistance, romania was able to stabilise its public finances and embark on a number of important reforms. so, despite the very high political costs, my country has managed to reduce the budget deficit and keep the public debt under control. but there is now a risk that some commitments in the current agreement with the imf and the european commission will not be met by the current socialist government. such a scenario would jeopardise all the reform and stabilisation efforts made by previous right-wing governments.
the unprecedented financial situation of recent years has seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability, leading to an increase in public deficits and debt in many member states, both within and outside the euro area. since the negative effects in the member states whose currency is not the euro can spread very easily throughout the european union, i believe it is prudent and necessary that these countries participating in the single supervisory mechanism also benefit from the bank recapitalisation facility provided for by the european stability mechanism. moreover, given that many of these countries face major difficulties in accessing community financial instruments, the provision of increased financial assistance under the balance of payments mechanism will lead to an improvement in administrative capacity and, by implication, to an increase in the absorption of european funds.
the financial crisis has had a considerable impact on the development of member states' budgets, which has required an increase in the balance of payments assistance facility to eur 50 billion. significant sums have been made available to countries facing difficulties, including my own country, romania. however, there are some shortcomings in the implementation of the provisions of this mechanism, as non-euro area countries do not benefit from the same financial instruments as euro area countries. there is a need to identify similar conditions between euro area and non-euro area countries, although the newly created euro area mechanisms make this more difficult. balance of payments financial assistance can make a significant contribution to the achievement of several objectives by strengthening administrative capacity and, as a result, by increasing the absorption rate of cohesion policy funds. i fully support mrs hübner's proposals and congratulate her on her excellent report.
in writing. we have seen the eu quickly intervene in favour of some euro area countries, which is a positive fact, but at the same time we cannot ignore the fact that there are many countries, including romania, that are outside the euro area and that, in complicated situations, need europe's support. not being part of the euro area has a number of disadvantages which we accept, but in the cohesion process, measures are needed, mechanisms to support these countries, as has happened with the other countries. such a measure would have positive effects not only on the states in the area but also on europeanism as a public perception. i welcome the presence of a wide range of financial assistance instruments available to non-euro area member states, as provided for in the balance of payments proposal, but attention should be drawn to the lack of a bank recapitalisation instrument in the package of financial assistance measures available to non-euro area member states. in order to ensure a level playing field between euro area and non-euro area member states, it is important to move towards bank recapitalisation in non-euro area member states as well.
i appreciate that the new guidelines on regional state aid are a step towards simplifying the rules and making them more flexible. however, i would like to stress that the new guidelines refer to a completely different economic situation than that of the previous regulatory period. in those circumstances, i consider that the new restrictions imposed in the areas covered by article 107 (3) (c) and relating to aid to large undertakings in the community sense are not justified. there are many businesses with local relevance that exceed the threshold proposed by the employees. there is no contradiction between supporting these businesses and supporting small and mediumsized businesses, as the green member has suggested. however, i agree with the proposal of my colleague and other colleagues that a state-supported enterprise should be obliged to remain in that state. in addition, when establishing the criteria for delimiting the areas covered by regional state aid, the commission should take into account the specificities of certain regions, such as rural areas, regions with natural handicaps, mountain regions, regions with an ageing population or those with chronic unemployment.
although the role of regional state aid is indisputable in increasing the competitiveness of enterprises and attracting investors in underdeveloped regions, measures taken to protect competition have led to an excessive limitation of the eligibility conditions for the granting of these incentives. it should be borne in mind that competition for investors is often between european regions and non-eu countries, and the strictness of state aid rules means that our regions start at a disadvantage. in this context, i believe that, in times of economic crisis, we need a new european strategy: 1) adapted to international competition, 2) limiting the restrictions imposed on aid to large enterprises and 3) linked to the other european policies, namely cohesion policy and industrial policy.
regional state aid should exploit the growth potential of the single market in a context of limited public resources. romania is directly interested in the new guidelines proposed by the commission, especially as most of the regions will fall under category a. thus, undertakings in difficulty are subject to state aid schemes to the extent that they fulfil the legal conditions. in the last period, several romanian plants in the steel or petrochemical industry have faced economic difficulties, and some of them have ended up making massive layoffs. i believe that in the next financial programming period, member states should make the most efficient use of budgetary resources. state aid should also be targeted at enterprises that can generate economic growth and contribute to reducing unemployment.
in romania, the government wants to change the country's administrative structure by the end of this year. the reason: the current statistical development regions are not efficient enough in using cohesion resources. that's right. but i doubt that the administration of regions designated 15 years ago, in a careless and unprofessional manner, will help romania's capacity to use resources. the european union regulations will be used as a reason to cement the wrong regional classification. the reform of a country's public administration is a national responsibility, but if eu regulations are invoked to make better use of cohesion resources, perhaps the european commission could also give its opinion on the matter. i don't think that the most appropriate principle in the process of regional development is for the governing parties to have as little interest in their own local politicians as possible. it is much more appropriate to base economic indicators on individual regions, to create regions which have been created organically in the course of history. in the case of romania, these regions can be identified.
in the context of the current crisis, the revision of the 2014-2020 regional state aid guidelines can play a crucial role in boosting growth, but the new guidelines must create the conditions for modernising the methods of allocating such aid, simplifying procedures and minimising the risk of possible future economic slippages. there is a need for a balanced delimitation of areas in the allocation of aid so that economically backward regions are effectively supported by reducing existing disparities. i would like to draw attention to the risk of the relocation of economic activities both within and outside the union, as a result of the limitation of the possibilities for public intervention in favour of large enterprises. more coherence between the regional aid guidelines and cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 must also be ensured, with attention also paid to innovation and research. i say this with pain at a time when the government of my country, a socialist-liberal government, is cutting funding for research and innovation.
in writing. the constitutional situation in hungary raises obvious questions. in 2010, fidesz, led by viktor orban, won the elections to the hungarian parliament with a majority of 53% of the popular vote, which according to the hungarian electoral system turned into a supermajority of 68% of the total number of mps. what followed the installation of the orban government was an avalanche of amendments to the constitution of hungary, many of which seemed to favour the executive and the ruling party. whether we are talking about the electoral law, which was also declared unconstitutional by the constitutional court of hungary, or we are talking about absurd initiatives to criminalize homeless people or laws restricting the freedom of the press it is quite clear that the current constitutional situation in hungary is not reassuring. hungary's new constitution has been criticized by the european parliament, the united states, the council of europe, the european commission, various member states, and various human rights organizations for giving too much power to the ruling party. i therefore believe that the european institutions must take action to investigate possible democratic abuses and oversteps by the hungarian executive.
cyprus needs the full support of the european union and i would like to thank commissioner rehn and the european commission for their efforts in this regard. i also believe that the european commission's intention to speed up the use of european funds allocated to cyprus is a good step in the right direction. at the same time, i cannot but regret the delay in taking action on cyprus' financial problems, even though the signs have been there for a very long time. i think that the european central bank could also provide some explanations in this regard. i take this opportunity to ask the european commission to make every effort to ensure that at least all member states accept the automatic exchange of information on foreigners' deposits in banks in the territory of those member states. we should not expect european citizens to revolt against tax evaders and the inaction of the european commission.
mr president, i voted for creating an interinstitutional data base for studies in order to avoid duplication of work, spending more money on the same studies and issues and also to allow the inter-exchange of the findings of these studies. i hope this will be properly enforced. i would also like to welcome the adoption in june 2011 of the commission’s new anti-fraud strategy and its internal action plan for implementation. now each directorate-general at the commission will have to implement it. consistency between the directorates-general is very important, in order to have consistent implementation and be able to compare the results of these measures. therefore i support paragraph 84 and call on the commission to report on and to evaluate the anti-fraud strategies established with each and within each directorate-general.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the management carried out by the commission should be presented fairly, in order to strengthen public confidence in the institutions. the commission shall implement the budget and manage programmes in cooperation with the member states under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. it should include the relevant data on all policies managed by it. it also needs to take greater responsibility for the national audit authorities and audit systems in the member states where most errors were detected. it is necessary to harmonise the practices of its services as regards the interruption/suspension of payments when major deficiencies are detected in the supervisory and control systems of the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii commission and executive agencies. i also voted in favour of the decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011 for the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency, the competitiveness and innovation executive agency, the health and consumers executive agency, the research executive agency and the trans-european transport network executive agency. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii - commission and executive agencies. the european parliament called on the commission to support the management and control authorities in the member states in identifying systemic sources of error and, in particular, in ensuring the correct application of public procurement rules, and to guide these authorities, by means of reasoned opinions, in their simplification efforts. an important step towards simplification is the mandatory use of electronic application and reporting in connection with projects, as well as the unification and standardisation of documents and procedures for the management and implementation of operational programmes.
mr president, i voted in favour of the present report to acknowledge the importance of the court of auditors’ special report in assessing the implementation of the european programmes and policies which are ultimately funded by european taxpayers’ money. for instance, the special report on the control of customs procedure 42 and its impact on the prevention and detection of vat evasion revealed that in 2009, the application of customs procedure 42 alone accounted for extrapolated losses of approximately eur 2 000 million in the seven member states audited by the court. it also pointed out many shortcomings in the cross-border cooperation between member states tax administrations. such reports show the need to devote further attention and resources to developing performance audits. i would also like to insist on the importance of the court of auditors continuing to draw up the special report on conflict of interests it has already started for the agencies of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the special reports of the european court of auditors provide information on some concerns relating to the implementation of the funds which is useful to the european parliament in its role as an authority. i welcome the fact that by the end of 2015 at the latest, the commission will produce an evaluation report on the achievement of the objectives for all measures, at the level of results and impact, resource efficiency and european added value, with a view to a decision to amend or suspend the measures. i am also concerned that, according to the court of auditors' estimate, the funds needed to complete the decommissioning projects, totalling eur 2 500 million, are lacking. this therefore creates a considerable financial gap.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the special reports of the european court of auditors in the context of the discharge to the european commission for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors' special reports are as follows: have the measures taken by the eu helped to adapt fleet capacity to the available fishing opportunities? the way in which the customs procedure 42 is controlled is such as to prevent and detect vat evasion; has eu assistance improved croatia's ability to manage post-accession funding? financial assistance from the european union for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia: achievements and future challenges; the effectiveness of the european union's development aid in the field of food security in sub-saharan africa; financial instruments co-financed by the european regional development fund to support smes; using the structural funds and the cohesion fund to co-finance transport infrastructure in seaports: an effective investment? the common information system for external relations (cris) ; assistance provided by the european union to the turkish cypriot community; the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine: progress made to date; audit on the control system governing the production, processing, distribution and imports of organic products; were the commission and eurostat able to improve the process of producing reliable and credible european statistics?
mr president, i advocate greater transparency regarding the general expenditure allowance. in my view, we must show a higher level of transparency and openness towards european citizens in the way we use the general expenditure allowance. therefore i agree with the proposal to have all members of this house report each year on their use of the allowance and to have this report audited and published on parliament’s website. this will ensure that the general expenditure allowance serves its true purpose and does not provide a supplementary private income for some members.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the court of auditors' audit showed that, as regards administrative expenditure in 2011, the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation functioned effectively in all institutions and 93% of the 56 audited payments were free from significant errors. i would like to highlight the added value of the parliamentary procedure of the annual discharge of the european parliament. i would point out that the parliament's discharge is an additional possibility for the public to exercise essential control over the financial management of the institution, thus facilitating the understanding by the citizens of the european union of parliament's own administrative structure, its working methods and the costs of a democratic europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section i european parliament, granting the president discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2011. i also voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section i european parliament. the resolution focuses mainly on budget implementation and discharge for the financial year 2011 and its main objective is to ensure the optimal use of public money, while also indicating areas for improvement. the european union budget for 2011 totalled eur 141,9 billion in commitment appropriations, of which eur 1,68 billion was for the parliament's budget. this represents just over 1% of the union budget and 20% of the total of eur 8 454 million foreseen in 2011 for administrative expenditure of the union institutions as a whole, in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
mr president, i would like to insist that the fight against fraud and corruption should receive greater prominence in budget support. in this regard, the commission should consider the existing reporting on corruption and fraud levels before taking a decision on granting budget support. stronger emphasis should also be put on judicial reform programmes. i would also like to say a few words about the eu projects developed in haiti. i voted in favour of amendment no 1, which calls on the commission to provide an assessment of the sustainability of union-funded projects in haiti based on a five-year perspective and to report to the discharge authorities on an annual basis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european union needs a wider range of development cooperation instruments, adapted to the existing context. the overall impact of the union's development policy is determined by policies in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, energy and trade. i stress the need to ensure policy coherence in favour of development. i believe that education plays a vital role in the development process, because it provides a perspective for the sustainability of aid efforts, and without education, even the best and most thoughtful technical policies will fail. i also underline the value of the european court of auditors' performance audits in relation to development assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2011, giving discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget. i also voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2011. the european parliament notes that delays in the contracting of important infrastructure programmes and the non-payment of budget support resulted in a low level of individual commitments and payments, which were 13% and 16% respectively below the target level in 2011. the european parliament reiterates its particular concern at the low rate of commitment of the regional financial package (31%) corresponding to the 10th edf, only two years before the end of the programming period. the european parliament encourages the european commission to make efforts to ensure the sound financial execution of this financial package and to build on the lessons learned from the current delays in the next programming period.
mr president, i voted in favour of postponing the decision on granting the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the european council and the council budgets for the financial year 2011. in my view, the council’s expenditure must be scrutinised by the european parliament in the same way as the expenditure of any other european institution is scrutinised by the european parliament. this benefits european citizens and aids transparency. we must account for every euro and be accountable. therefore, i regret that the council’s lack of cooperation with the european parliament in discharge procedures since 2007 has continued this year as well. moreover, given that the european council and the council are two different institutions, i believe that their budgets should be separated. this would improve transparency in their respective financial management systems and ensure true accountability. income and expenses must be shown separately and publicly in the manner in which they occur.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because all eu institutions should be fully transparent and accountable to the citizens of the union for the funds entrusted to them as eu institutions. i note with satisfaction that, on the basis of its audit work, the european court of auditors considers that, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were not affected by a significant level of error. i would like to stress the role of the european parliament under the treaty on the functioning of the european union in terms of discharge for the implementation of the budget. i regret that there is still a refusal on the part of the council to answer parliament's questions.
in writing. - i voted against the council's discharge, given that the funds spent on the work of this institution must be subject to control, as in the case of the other institutions. the principle of transparency must be applied by all union institutions without any limitation or exception.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ii european council and council. this decision postpones the granting of discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2011. i also voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of this decision. the european parliament requests the council to provide detailed written explanations by 1 july 2013 at the latest on the total amount of appropriations used for the purchase of the résidence palace, the budget lines from which those appropriations originated, the instalments paid so far, the instalments still to be paid and the purpose for which the building will be used. in 2011, the european council and the council had at their disposal commitment appropriations of eur 506 842 003,08 (eur 642 000 000 in 2010), with a 90% execution rate, which is lower than in 2010. parliament called for improvements in the rate of use of appropriations and the monitoring of changes made, and suggested that a number of key performance indicators be drawn up for the most important areas, such as funds for delegation travel, logistics and interpretation services.
mr president, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the registrar of the court of justice for the financial year 2011 in order to acknowledge the good performance of the court of justice in terms of budgetary and financial management. the court of justice managed to implement more than 98% of its appropriations and no significant weaknesses were found in the institution by the court of auditors. nevertheless, further efforts should be devoted to reducing the amount of pending cases in the general court: 1 308 cases were still pending in 2011, a number similar to that in 2010, which was 1 300 cases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors found no significant deficiencies in its 2011 annual report with regard to the audited aspects of the court of justice's human resources and procurement procedures. i welcome the fact that, on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors considers that, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were free from material error. i urge the court of justice to examine what kind of organisational changes could lead to a reduction in the number of cases pending and i also consider it necessary to strengthen the human resources of the general court.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iv court of justice, granting the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the court's budget for the financial year 2011. in 2011, the court of justice of the european union ('court of justice') had at its disposal commitment appropriations amounting to eur 335 904 453,30 (eur 323 784 221,30 in 2010). the budget of the court of justice is purely administrative, with 75% of expenditure relating to persons working with the institution and 25% to buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure. the european parliament is concerned that the number of cases pending before the general court remained very high in 2011 (more specifically, 1300 cases were pending in 2010 and 1308 cases were pending in 2011). the european parliament welcomes the development of the e-curia application, which became operational in november 2011 and allows for the electronic filing and service of procedural documents. this application contributed, as far as the court of justice is concerned, to a 25% reduction in paper used between 2011 and 2012 and to savings of eur 150 000.
mr president, i again voted in favour of granting discharge to the court of auditors for the financial year 2011 following the favourable opinion of the independent external auditor who audited the court’s accounts. however, i regret that the external expert’s satisfaction rate decreased in 2011, and i call on the court to take immediate action to ensure that this will not be the case in the future. furthermore, the court should pay greater attention to time plans, even where there is no deadline as in the case of the court of auditors special report. i regret that the special report on the cost benchmarking of eu agencies included in the court’s working programme for 2011 was subject to so many delays and that the decision was taken not to publish it. i therefore call on the court to provide a calendar presenting the individual stages of a report in each of its special reports.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the european court of auditors. i welcome the improvement in the court's financial management, in particular by introducing systematic monitoring of the measures taken by audited entities to follow up the court's recommendations. i consider the rate achieved a positive result. i encourage the european court of auditors to continue to assess the quality and impact of its work. i believe that special attention should be paid to the analyses carried out by external experts on the content and presentation of the court's reports. i congratulate the court of auditors on the extremely efficient work of its translation directorate and on the completion of the k3 building on time and on budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section v court of auditors, giving the secretary-general of the court of auditors discharge. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section v court of auditors. the european parliament draws attention to the major geographical imbalance in the number of directors: four citizens of the united kingdom and one each of france, spain, belgium, denmark, greece, ireland and italy. the european parliament also considers that the gender balance at the level of directors and heads of unit is still extremely unsatisfactory (72% men and 28% women). we stress the importance of geographical balance at all staff levels and ask the court to include a breakdown by nationality. the european parliament requests information on the reasons why the court of auditors' new it system, assist, has not been put into operation. parliament also requests a breakdown of the costs incurred so far and the likely costs in the future, as well as information on the likely date of introduction of the system.
mr president, i voted to grant discharge to the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2011 in order to acknowledge the efforts made in terms of budgetary and financial management. i welcome in particular the committee’s efforts to limit its budget for 2013 by keeping it at the level of 2012 as well as the cooperation agreement reached between the committee and the committee of the regions, which should enable it to make savings and synergies of around eur 40 million. i also welcome the fact that the declarations of financial interests of the committee’s members are now publicly available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is important to strengthen cooperation between the members of the european economic and social committee and the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament. i welcome the fact that, on the basis of its audit work, the european court of auditors considers that, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were not affected by a significant level of error. i would point out that in the 2011 annual report the court of auditors included observations on the conclusion of contracts with temporary and contract staff, identifying a number of inconsistencies in the guidelines applicable to promotion and recruitment of staff.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vi european economic and social committee. on the basis of its audit work, the european court of auditors considers that, overall, the payments made by the european economic and social committee (eesc) for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were not affected by a significant level of error. we support the eesc's efforts to limit its 2013 budget to the 2012 level and thus ensure a flat-rate increase. we draw attention to the obligation to publish data on energy consumption and the share of renewable energy. parliament also asked the eesc to present in its annual report information on specific budgetary savings resulting from the implementation of a joint agreement on administrative activities. we would point out that in the 2011 annual report the court of auditors included observations on the conclusion of contracts with temporary and contract staff, identifying a number of inconsistencies in the guidelines applicable to promotion and recruitment of staff. we ask the european economic and social committee to guarantee that these inconsistencies will not occur again.
mr president, i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2011, following the positive opinion of the court of auditors and in particular the fact that no significant weaknesses had been identified in respect of human resources and moreover in respect of procurement. however, action should be taken in order to improve the budget execution rate, which fell from 99.4% in 2010 to 97.5% in 2011. i welcome the reforms implemented to make savings, such as the progressive phasing-in of video-conferencing, which should allow for lower travel expenses, or the cooperation agreements signed with the european economic and social committee aiming at creating synergies and enabling savings, for instance in terms of translation services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were not affected by a significant level of error. i welcome the committee of the regions' internal organisation projects, which aim to promote cooperation between services and to create synergies through joint activities and actions. i am pleased to note that the recommendations and requirements made by parliament's committee on budgetary control are recorded by the committee's budget service in a central database and that the progress of their implementation is regularly monitored.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section vii committee of the regions. the new role of the committee, as described in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, requires organisational adjustments. we welcome the committee's internal organisation projects, which aim at cooperation between services and the creation of synergies in joint activities and actions, and we ask for updated and more precise information to be provided to the european parliament on the budgetary consequences of the measures adopted. we also stress that, for reasons of transparency, the declarations of financial interests of the members of all institutions, updated regularly, should be accessible on the internet. in this regard, we welcome the decision taken in 2011 by the committee bureau to publish the declarations of financial interests of members on the internet and hope that they will become accessible as soon as possible. i voted against amendment no 1, which calls for the committee of the regions, as a body designed to give a relatively small number of bodies privileged access to the legislative and policy-making process within the union, to finance its activities through contributions from local and regional bodies which it considers serve a valuable purpose.
mr president, with regard to the european ombudsman, i also voted for discharge to be granted for the financial year 2011, following the positive opinion of the court of auditors and in particular the fact that no significant weaknesses had been identified in respect of procurement and human resources. i welcome the fact that the european ombudsman service managed to improve its budget commitment rate by nearly three points from almost 89% to 92.54% and its budget execution rate by one point from 84% to 85.62% since 2010. this is not a large difference but it is nevertheless a difference and shows progress. i expect further improvements in this area in the future. nevertheless, the average length of inquiries continued to increase in 2011. only 66% of cases were closed within 12 months, while 80% of cases were closed within 18 months. adequate and immediate measures should be implemented to reduce the length of procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because in its 2011 annual report, the european court of auditors found no significant deficiencies in the european ombudsman's audited aspects of human resources and procurement procedures. i note that of the total appropriations, 92,54% were committed (89,65% in 2010) and 85,62% were paid (84,03% in 2010). i welcome the improvement in utilization. i believe that further efforts should be made to improve the rate of use and to monitor changes made. further progress is needed in ensuring timely feedback on actual payments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision of 17 april 2013 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section viii european ombudsman, granting the european ombudsman discharge. the ombudsman's budget is purely administrative, amounting in 2011 to eur 9 427 395, of which eur 7 318 795 was allocated to title 1 (expenditure relating to the institution's staff), eur 1 469 200 was allocated to title 2 (buildings, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure) and eur 639 400 was allocated to title 3 (expenditure relating to the institution's performance of its specific tasks). of the total appropriations, 92,54% were committed (89,65% in 2010) and 85,62% were paid (84,03% in 2010). the european parliament calls for further efforts to improve the rate of use and to monitor changes made. the european parliament notes with concern that the average duration of investigations continued to increase in 2011, with only 66% of cases closed within 12 months and 80% of cases closed within 18 months. we are calling for a substantial increase in the proportion of cases that are completed in a shorter time frame.
mr president, i voted for granting the discharge to the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2011, bearing in mind the opinion of the court of auditors and also the fact that public procurement rules were respected. i welcome the fact that the data protection supervisor has managed to improve significantly its budget commitment rate from 82.73% to 89.31% since 2010. nevertheless, further efforts are needed in order to reach an implementing and execution rate above 90%.
i voted in favour of the report because the protection of personal data and respect for privacy are fundamental rights. i welcome the fact that the balance of payments executed in 2011 by the european data protection supervisor is free from material error. however, the authority needs to continue to improve its monitoring and control system. particular attention shall be paid to the economic management and efficient use of appropriations in the exercise of the authority's responsibilities. i believe that a twofold interest must be pursued: effective data protection and the provision of low-cost services. a differentiated approach is also needed for the online and offline domain. we need to increase citizens' trust and impose security guarantees. i also call on the national supervisory authority for the processing of personal data in romania to monitor data more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section ix - european data protection supervisor. this decision gives the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011. in 2011, the authority had commitment appropriations totalling eur 7 564 137 (eur 7 104 351 in 2010) and the level of implementation of these appropriations was 89,31% (82,73% in 2010). the european parliament calls for further efforts to improve the level of implementation and for changes to be monitored. parliament also requests the authority to draw up the draft annual budget so that it better corresponds to the authority's needs. we welcome the authority's inspection reports on 13 eu institutions and bodies based in brussels, which aimed to verify whether the public is informed about video surveillance in a comprehensive and effective way by the eu institutions and bodies. the european parliament suggests that information and good practice be exchanged with national data protection authorities.
mr president, i voted for granting discharge to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in respect of the implementation of the european external action service budget for the financial year 2011. given that many of the delegations of the european external action service operate in environments prone to corruption and fraud, i believe that appropriate measures should be implemented in order to protect the financial interests of the union abroad. i agree with the proposal included in the resolution, which advocates the adoption and enforcement of a comprehensive whistleblower policy, together with the organisation of appropriate training and awareness-building for each european external action service staff member, in order to allow for the detection and reporting of any misconduct.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were not affected by a significant level of error. i recall that 2011 was the first financial year of the european external action service (eeas) and i therefore consider it positive that no material error was found. however, the necessary improvement is needed in the collection of information on staff and in strict compliance with the legislation in force on non-contract staff. i also stress the need to achieve a more pronounced gender balance and, as far as possible, a geographical balance in the selection and appointment of staff.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section x european external action service (eeas). although 2011 was its first financial year, the eeas bears full responsibility for the financial year 2011 and must ensure strict compliance with the legislation. in this respect, we call for greater transparency in the competences of the eeas's administrative structure and for the reduction of dual competences. we regret that the proportion of staff from the newer member states is very small compared to the eu-15 staff. we stress the need to achieve a gender balance and, as far as possible, a more pronounced geographical balance in the selection and appointment of staff. we urge the eeas to develop appropriate mechanisms and take the necessary measures to achieve a more adequate and balanced representation in a timely manner and we urge the eeas to use the vacant posts to achieve geographical balance at all staff levels. we ask the eeas to forward its staff evaluation report to parliament. finally, we remind the eeas of its responsibility to deliver concrete results and stress the importance of respecting the reciprocity between the results achieved and the overall budget.
mr president, i support the provisions related to transparency and conflict of interest that are included in this report. i welcome in particular the fact that it calls for follow-up to the special report on the management and prevention of conflict of interest, a work which was produced last year during the discharge of the european agencies. i insist also on the fact that high-level transparency is key to mitigating the risk of conflict of interest. therefore i urge all agencies that have not yet done so to publish on their websites a list of their management board members, management staff, external and in-house experts together with their respective declarations of interest and curriculum vitae. however, i would like to say that i voted against amendment 15 because it considers that the potential merger of agencies would have a hasty effect and should be disregarded by the commission. on the contrary, i believe that mergers offer the possibility to avoid duplication, with agencies having overlapping fields of activities; to solve some structural issues; to make those agencies more efficient and to save taxpayers’ money.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because annuality is one of the three basic accounting principles (unity, annuality and balance) and is indispensable to ensure the efficient execution of the european union budget. i am pleased to note that the newly established agencies attend the network meetings three times a year and that these meetings include exchanges of good practice. however, in some cases, improvements in internal planning are needed, as agencies need to improve their procedures. the lack of flexibility in the budget was flagged as a shortcoming by some agencies, indicating that savings could be made if there was sufficient flexibility from one title to another in the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2011: performance, financial management and control. the european parliament underlines the importance of the tasks carried out by the agencies and their direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, in particular as regards the quality of medicines, food safety, aviation security and the control of infectious disease outbreaks. in this context, we underline the essential importance of the autonomy of agencies, in particular regulatory agencies and those performing the function of independent information gathering, and recall that the main purpose of the creation of decentralised agencies was to carry out independent technical and scientific assessments. the european parliament considers that the financial rules applicable to the agencies should be simplified, which would allow for the reduction of costs associated with the administrative staff of the agencies. the european commission is invited to develop proposals in this regard and to encourage agencies to use the option of simplification in recruitment procedures where the standard procedure is designed for a larger organisation and creates an excessive burden for the agents.
mr president, i voted for granting discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. however, there are some shortcomings in the budgetary and financial management of the agency and they have been reported. for instance, in 2011, the agency unduly paid subsistence allowances of nearly eur 11 000 to seconded experts who were nationals of the state where the agency is situated, and this is not allowed. i welcome the fact that the agency stopped this irregular payment and i expect it to recover the amount paid. i strongly recommend that it does so.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, according to the court of auditors, it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, the high level of unused appropriations and carry-overs, as well as the low level of payments, indicate weaknesses in budget planning and implementation and are contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. however, the agency is now in a much better position to implement its tasks and the related budget. i would remind you that in 2011, the initial contribution of the european union was eur 4 362 607,98, which was also the first year that the agency was financially autonomous.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. this decision gives the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011. the agency moved from brussels to its seat in ljubljana, slovenia, on 1 february 2011. it officially started its activity on 3 march 2011 and obtained financial autonomy on 8 march 2011. the general budget of the agency for the financial year 2011 was eur 4 792 345. on the basis of the annual accounts, the rate of commitment of loans was 67%, while the rate of use of payment loans was 74% of the total loans managed. the court of auditors considers that progress can be made in improving the transparency of recruitment procedures. the european parliament requests the agency to further examine this issue and to report on the measures taken.
mr president, i voted for granting discharge to the executive director of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. nevertheless, looking forward to the 2012 discharge procedure, i call on the office to address the shortcomings noted in 2011, and in particular to present a budget in full compliance with the principle of specification. i also call on the office to adopt and implement all the required internal control standards, such as the central register of invoices and the registers of exceptions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, the court of auditors found 21 cases, totalling eur 94 120, in which the appropriations carried over in 2012 did not correspond to legal commitments that had been entered into, and those carry-overs were therefore not in accordance with the regulations. the initial contribution of the union to the office's 2011 budget was eur 1 178 785,60, which was also the first year in which the office was financially autonomous.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011. this decision gives the administrative director of the body of european regulators for electronic communications discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the discharge decision. the year 2011 was the first year in which the office was financially autonomous and the initial contribution of the union to the office's 2011 budget was eur 1 178 785,60. the european parliament notes with concern that the european court of auditors identified 21 cases, totalling eur 94 120, in which the appropriations carried over in 2012 did not correspond to legal commitments that had been entered into, and that those carry-overs were therefore not in line with the regulations. parliament also notes the court of auditors' observation that the transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved and invites the office to monitor this and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken to this end.
mr president, i will be very brief. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the executive director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011. i welcome, in particular, the centre’s continued efforts to reduce its substantial budget surplus, which fell from eur 9.2 million in 2010 to eur 2.97 million in 2011. we are talking about a reduction in expenses of about eur 7 million, and i really appreciate this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budget of the centre shall include revenue from payments made by the bodies for which the centre works and by the institutions and bodies of the union with which cooperation agreements have been concluded in return for services rendered, including interinstitutional activities and other revenue. however, the centre needs to analyse the data flow and the current tools used for budget planning and to put in place control measures, as the centre's budget planning relies on excel tools and on manual or system-based data checking, which could lead to calculation errors and erroneous planning of expenditure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011, as the centre's final budget for 2011 was eur 51 299 000 compared to eur 55 928 077 in 2010, representing a decrease of 8,27%. in 2011, to increase the independence of the function, the centre appointed a new data protection officer. it is noted that in 2011, the european data protection supervisor (edps) issued four prior checking notifications, namely for: video surveillance, disciplinary procedure, anti-harassment policy and certification procedure. for video surveillance, the case was closed with a favourable opinion, for the disciplinary procedure and the anti-harassment policy, the edps requested and received additional information, and for the certification procedure, the edps has not yet ruled. we request the centre to inform the discharge authority regularly on the status of notifications. the european parliament notes from the centre's annual activity report (aar) that 205 posts in the establishment plan were filled by the end of 2011, i.e. 91,1% of the total number provided.
mr president, today we granted discharge to the executive director of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011. however, i believe that swift measures should be implemented to reduce the high level of carry-overs related to administrative expenditure and to prevent an excessive number of budget transfers from taking place at the end of the year. for instance, 67 of the 77 budget transfers were made at the end of the year. this reflects weaknesses in budgetary and programmed planning. moreover, i believe that the centre should further explore possible synergies existing with the european training foundation, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions and the european agency for safety and health at work. deeper integration between those agencies would definitely help to create economies of scale. i also dare to envisage merging these institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i welcome the centre's commitment to further reduce deferrals by monitoring the state of play of budget implementation (commitments, payments) and public procurement through standardised models. i note that the performance measurement centre (pms) system has been fully implemented, therefore i believe that the centre should further develop qualitative assessments to complement the pms indicators, which are more quantitative in nature. i also believe that the centre should reduce as far as possible the transfer of commitment appropriations from one budget line to another in order to apply the principle of specificity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2011. we welcome the centre's contribution to promoting education and training to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, in particular its contribution since 2011 to the development of the european union flagship initiative 'agenda for new skills and jobs'. we call for better integration of the centre's recommendations and its capacities in the european semester, especially when preparing the annual growth analysis and macroeconomic indicators. we also welcome the development of a comprehensive set of processes for monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the annual work programme and the use of the centre's resources. however, i believe that further improvements are needed given that 67 out of 77 budgetary transfers were made at the end of 2011, demonstrating weaknesses in budgetary and programme planning. we call for structural measures to be implemented to address these shortcomings.
mr president, we granted discharge to the executive director of the european police college for 2011 in order to acknowledge the efforts it has made in the last few years – and in the last two years in particular –in terms of budgetary and financial management. however, some weaknesses remained in 2011 such as the use of payments on incorrect budget lines within chapters or titles. i expect the college to take action to prevent the occurrence of such weaknesses in the future and to keep the discharge authority informed. moreover, the college will have to leave its current premises in 2014. therefore i believe we should make full use of this opportunity and relocate the college to the hague, where europol and eurojust are located. in my view such relocation has the potential to foster further synergies between the different agencies, solves the current remoteness issue of the college and leads to economies of taxpayer’s money.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. although in its reports on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial years 2006, 2007 and 2009 the court of auditors expressed a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions on the grounds that the procurement procedures did not comply with the provisions of the financial regulation, an improvement has now been noted. the college shall make a clear distinction in its final annual accounts between the different components of the european union contribution to the college's budget. the college should also take measures to avoid the repetition of shortcomings that have emerged in the preparation of individual budgets. the college should provide parliament with updated information on the implementation status of the 16 new commission internal control standards (ics) adopted by the college's management board and replacing the old ics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2011. the college was established in 2001 and was transformed, as from 1 january 2006, into a community body within the meaning of article 185 of the financial regulation, to which the framework financial regulation applicable to the agencies applies. in its decisions of 7 october 2010 and 10 may 2011, parliament refused to grant the college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial years 2008 and 2009, subsequently granting discharge in its decision of 25 october 2011. in may 2012, parliament granted the director of the college discharge in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2010, and in its resolution accompanying the discharge decision, parliament included a number of recommendations. we welcome the college's efforts and achievements to improve performance without budgetary increase. we congratulate the college on fully complying with parliament's requests and on overcoming the current budgetary challenges.
mr president, i voted in favour of the present report which grants discharge to the executive director of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011 in order to support the provision it contains in terms of the prevention management of conflict of interest. however, i do regret that in 2011 the agency had no policies in place for managing conflicts of interest, as is reported by the court of auditors. so far, we have only had promises from the european aviation safety agency. it is true that the agency has recently adopted a new code of conduct for its staff, and the court of appeal has proposed a code of conduct for the management board and adopted a policy on creating an ethical committee. however, i would say that just thinking of some policies or putting them on paper is far from enough. therefore, i call for the inclusion in the agency’s annual activity report of a special section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011, and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency should continue to implement the current activity structure for the operational budget in order to establish a clear link between the work programme and the financial forecast and to improve performance monitoring and reporting. the agency should also manage the main safety concerns more effectively by monitoring information, reducing the implementation and reporting timeframes, documenting decision-making processes between the agency and the commission, and adequately addressing the risks of any potential conflict of interest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011, giving the executive director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. according to the court of auditors, the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 amounted to eur 138 700 000, compared to eur 137 200 000 in 2010, representing an increase of 1,09%. the european parliament reiterates that the agency should refrain from appointing a staff member recruited from the staff of an aircraft manufacturer to carry out certification activities on the aircraft on which he worked while employed by that aircraft manufacturer, as this could give rise to a conflict of interest. the agency's website currently makes available the curriculum vitae of the executive director of the agency and four other directors, as well as their declarations of interests. the european parliament considers that the same provisions should also apply to each expert/staff member involved in the aircraft certification process, as stated in the 2010 discharge procedure.
mr president, we once again gave discharge to the executive director of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011. we did that to acknowledge the authority’s overall good results in terms of its budgetary and financial management and its accounting system, despite its legal transition from its predecessor, the committee of european banking supervisors. i welcome in particular the fact that procurement procedures have been updated to comply with the european union’s procurement rules and that the backlog of outstanding procurement procedures was reduced substantially. nevertheless, i call on the authority to keep the discharge authority informed about the remaining backlog and also to take proper action in order to address the weaknesses noted with regard to recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. according to the annual accounts, the main objective of the authority in 2011 was to establish and continue to expand. i stress that it is important that the budget allocated and the available posts on the one hand and the tasks entrusted to the authority on the other hand are consistent, because if they are not, the result would be a staff imbalance in terms of recruiting staff for the authority on the one hand and involving national experts on the other.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011. this decision gives the executive director of the european banking authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011. the authority is a newly established agency based in london, which was established by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 and officially started its operations on 1 january 2011 as an independent authority. the authority has taken over all existing and current tasks and responsibilities from its predecessor, the committee of european banking supervisors (cebs). the authority shall also be an integral part of the european system of financial supervisors and shall work in close cooperation with the other european supervisory authorities, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority, within a joint committee, as well as with the european systemic risk board. in accordance with the founding regulation, 60% of the 2011 budget was financed by contributions from the member states and the european free trade association (efta) member states, and 40% was financed from the union budget. parliament called on the commission to assess the possibility of developing a proposal for the financing of the european supervisory authorities (esas) budget entirely from the union budget.
mr president, although the agency received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors, i decided to vote in favour of granting the discharge to the executive director. the qualified opinion relates to irregularities in the management of a eur 9 million framework contract concluded in 2009 which led to payments amounting to almost eur 15 million, way above the ceiling set. nevertheless i took into account the fact that the centre consulted the court of auditors on further action once it discovered that irregularity and took immediate and quick action to rectify the existing situation and to prevent similar irregularities in future. of course, we will bear this in mind for next year’s discharge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) ensures coherence and complementarity in public health action by reconciling the roles and responsibilities of the member states, the institutions of the european union and international organisations. as regards payment appropriations, the budget execution rate increased by 8% compared to 2010 and reached 76% of the total budget, compared to 68% in 2010. this is already an improvement on the 68% level in 2010, but the centre needs to make further efforts in this regard. in 2011, the ecdc was allocated eur 56 600 000 from the union budget. the centre had 200 authorised posts, 177 of which were occupied at the end of the year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2011, giving the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. the european parliament notes that 2011 was the first year in which the court of auditors delivered a qualified opinion on the centre's annual accounts. in 2009, the centre concluded a framework contract with a maximum value of eur 9 million, which allowed it to sign specific contracts, up to this amount, with selected suppliers. following subsequent amendments, the value of these contracts increased to eur 14,9 million. by the end of 2011, payments made totalled eur 12,2 million, of which eur 3,2 million were payments made in 2011. commitments and payments exceeding the threshold of eur 9 million set in the framework contract are not in compliance. the european parliament notes that in 2011, the public procurement office was involved in the organisation of 60 open procedures, 59 tenders and a call for tenders, and in the reopening of 46 procedures (framework contracts for it services).
mr president, i voted to grant discharge to the executive director of the european chemicals agency for the year 2011. i regret, however, that until september 2011, the agency’s policies for managing conflicts of interest were incomplete. for instance, the declarations of interest were neither screened nor published but were sealed. training on conflicts of interest was absent. so if we do have a policy on conflicts of interest, we have to demonstrate this and make public all these declarations of interest and not keep them closed in a room. i welcome the fact that, in the meantime, the agency adopted a new policy for the management of potential conflicts of interest, a more detailed template for declarations of interest and a code of conduct for management board members. however, in my view, adopting policies is not enough. we need the rules to be implemented transparently. i call, therefore, for the introduction in the agency’s annual activity report of a special section describing the action taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, the agency needs to improve the planning of human resources activities and projects at the time of establishing the annual work programme. i welcome the establishment by the agency of a separate registration and filing unit and an emergency response team. the general budget of the agency for the financial year 2011 was eur 93 200 000, compared to eur 75 500 000 in 2010, representing an increase of 23,44%.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011. in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1907/2006, the agency is financed by fees paid by industry for the registration of chemicals and, where appropriate, by grants from the european union, in accordance with article 185 of the financial regulation. in 2011, the agency was entirely self-financed by fees and did not receive any subsidy from the union budget. the agency was supported from the union budget by the commission (dg environment) with a sum of only eur 500 000, contractual compensation for carrying out preparatory work for the new regulation (eu) no 528/2012 on biocidal products (7). according to the court of auditors' report, the agency's general budget for the financial year 2011 was eur 93 200 000, compared to eur 75 500 000 in 2010, representing an increase of 23,44%. the total carry-over of appropriations for commitments and payments was eur 14 421 314,76, representing 16,2% of the commitments provided for. we ask the agency to inform on the measures taken to remedy the deficiencies caused by the excessive level of carry-overs, as this situation is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality.
mr president, i voted to postpone the discharge of the european environment agency and i really regret that the majority voted to grant discharge. there is currently an olaf investigation under way into the procurement procedures for some contracts for the european environment agency and this is, of course, related to the executive director of the agency. it seems this investigation will soon be over, so we will know the results of olaf’s investigations. so how do we look as a parliament, having given the agency discharge without first waiting for the results of this olaf investigation? i am sure we are not going to look good, and i regret that all the lobbying done on behalf of this agency and of the director really had an effect on some colleagues. i was the rapporteur last year and i know how heavy the lobbying was for this agency. i want to end by saying that i have nothing against the environment. i fight for a clean environment and, once again, i have nothing against the agency itself. the problem lies with public procurement and with the fact that this house could not wait to see olaf’s findings on the executive director’s involvement in some public procurement contracts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as it found the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2011 to be legal and regular in all material respects. i would like to stress that the discharge procedure focuses on the previous financial year. the discharge procedure for the financial year 2010 is difficult, but any progress made since then should be recorded and taken into account appropriately. in 2011, the agency received resources from the union budget amounting to eur 41 000 000. notes with satisfaction that 132 of the 134 available posts were filled and notes that by the end of 2011, 82 contract staff and seconded national experts were employed;
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011. the management board and the agency's administration have strengthened its conflict of interest policy in order to avoid any problems in the future. it is noted that a pre-approval procedure has been established, which the executive director must receive from the management board in order to accept membership on external management boards or advisory bodies. the form on the rights and obligations of consultants and contractors, which they must sign, acknowledging that they will refrain from any act or action that could compromise their independence or that could harm the dignity of their function, their activity or the image of the union, has also been introduced. we welcome the new procedures approved on 12 december 2012 by the agency's management board at its 65th meeting, with particular reference to: the conflict of interest training provided for in the training programme for new staff, the obligation to sign the form 'obligations of officials and other servants of the european environment agency under the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants'.
mr president, i voted to grant discharge for the european fisheries control agency for the year 2011. i welcome in particular the fact that in 2011 the agency continued to work on its multiannual and annual work programmes, which should enable it to fulfil its tasks more efficiently. however, i call on the agency to improve procurement procedures and remedy the shortcomings observed by the court of auditors in this respect, such as the lack of documentation on the estimation of contract values in the procurement files, the lack of transparency of procedures, or indeed the lack of adequate procedures to record and account for costs related to the generation of internal intangible assets. i call on the agency to resolve all these issues in time for the next discharge procedure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency's general budget for 2011 was eur 12 850 000, compared to eur 11 013 000 in 2010, representing an increase of 16,7%. the initial contribution of the european union to the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 11 850 000, representing an increase of 40,90% compared to its initial contribution in 2010 (eur 8 410 000). however, the agency needs to improve its procurement procedures, as there are shortcomings in this regard.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the european fisheries control agency for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011. we underline the importance of the agency's tasks and welcome its efficient and effective activities, which the committee on fisheries of the european parliament noted during its visits to the agency in 2010 and 2012. on the basis of the annual accounts for the financial year 2011, the agency committed 99% of the allocated contributions and used 89% of the available payment appropriations. we welcome the fact that in its 2010 annual activity report (aar), the agency has made available to the discharge authority data showing the overall budget execution rate of commitment and payment appropriations. in the light of the findings of the european court of auditors, we draw the agency's attention to the need to further improve its staff selection procedures. we welcome the agency's initiative to create in 2008 the internal audit function, which aims to provide support and advice to the executive director and the agency's management on internal control, risk assessment and internal audit.
mr president, we gave discharge to the executive director of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011, in this case also to acknowledge the efforts made in terms of transparency and conflict of interest following last year’s discharge procedure, when initially it was postponed. i welcome the fact that following the 2010 discharge recommendations the authority introduced in its annual activity report a special section describing the actions taken to implement its independence policy. i am concerned, however, that the independence and competence of its external experts remain under question. this is why i support paragraph 12, which calls for a dialogue with civil society on matters related to conflicts of interest. i also expect the authority to improve its independence policy through the publication of the outcomes of breaches of trust and through reinforcement of the mandate of its committee on conflicts of interest. i also strongly support paragraph 18, which calls on the management board to have its chair elected by open ballot, as requested during the 2010 discharge procedure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the budget of the authority for the financial year 2011 is estimated at eur 77 309 800, compared to eur 74 700 000 in 2010, representing an increase of 3,49%, and is financed entirely by contributions from the union budget. however, the authority must respect the principle of annuality to a greater extent. i consider 2011 to be a special year because of the move to the new premises and the delay in payments as a result.
in writing. − i welcome the plans to launch a pilot project this year to integrate the scientific expertise of the two working groups and believe that providing as much information as possible on this pilot project and on the discharge is beneficial to all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011. the authority's budget for the financial year 2011 represented an increase of 3,49% compared to 2010. budget monitoring efforts during the financial year continued to contribute to a very high budget implementation rate of 98,47% (98,8% in 2010). it should be noted that in 2011, 334 out of 355 posts were occupied, with the authority employing 109 contract staff and seconded national experts. we ask the authority to improve the employment rate. the parliament also strongly recommends that, in order to avoid conflicts of interest, an appropriate transition period be imposed in order to prevent the authority's staff from leaving their position within the authority to immediately take up another position in the industry or in a related lobbying agency, as well as in the case of reverse transfers. we also urge the authority to continue to follow the recommendations of the european court of auditors to avoid any conflict of interest between its various management and operational structures and to inform the discharge authority of any new developments in the management of conflicts of interest before october 2013.
mr president, we granted discharge to the executive director of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011. we acknowledge the improvements made by the institute in the management of its budget since the 2010 discharge procedure. i welcome in particular the progress in the budget execution rate. budget execution under staff expenditure increased to 88.50% in 2011 compared to 49.19% in 2010, while under administrative expenditure it increased to almost 35% in 2011 compared to 29% in 2010. these are positive steps, especially given that the institute was granted administrative and financial autonomy only on 15 june 2010. i encourage the institute to continue and to devote specific attention to the execution rate under operational expenditure, which remained very low in 2011 – 18.36%. i would also comment on the fact that the institute coordinated, together with the commission’s representation, the european parliament’s information office, in order to identify and select common promises. these best practices offer the possibility for synergies, savings and duplication of work, increase the union’s visibility and enable cost saving and sharing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i consider the role of the european institute for gender equality in promoting gender equality in europe to be very important. 2011 was the first full year of operation of the institute, as it gained its financial and administrative independence in june 2010. moreover, the institute recorded a positive budgetary result of eur 1 156 400,29 in 2011. i believe that the role of the institute needs to be further strengthened in view of the challenges we face at european level in terms of gender equality. however, on the basis of the observations made by the court of auditors, improvements are needed by the institute in the documentary recording of the physical inventory of fixed assets and in the estimation of expenditure incurred.
in writing. − i believe that the important role played by the european institute for gender equality in promoting gender equality, and the support given to its integration into all union policies, as well as national policies, is primarily aimed at combating discrimination on grounds of gender and raising awareness of gender equality among union citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2011. on the basis of the annual report, it is noted that the institute's staff was transferred on 1 march 2010 from its temporary seat in brussels to its permanent seat in vilnius, lithuania. also, according to the annual report, the government of the republic of lithuania provided the rent for the institute's offices for a period of two years, until 15 december 2011. the european parliament notes, on the basis of the annual accounts, that in 2011 the execution of payments was more effective than in 2010, with significant improvements in all titles. on the basis of the annual accounts, the institute recorded a budget execution rate of 44,19% for payments and 88,54% for commitments at the end of 2011. 123 procurement procedures were completed in the operations and administration sector and the overall volume of procurement represented approximately 50% of the institute's general budget.
mr president, i would first like to say why i am taking the floor on all these discharge procedures for the agencies. it is because i was the rapporteur last year and i have followed up intensively this year’s discharge procedure, and i tabled amendments to all of them. regarding the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, i voted to grant discharge for the financial year 2011. however, i believe the authority’s current financing scheme should be addressed as soon as possible, given that 55% of the budget is financed by the contributions of member states and efta countries. in my view, this could create shortcomings with regards to the authority’s independence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority has played a very important role in ensuring effective and comprehensive monitoring in this field at european level. in 2011, the authority recorded a positive budget balance of eur 2 804 969,81. unfortunately, the provisions of the financial regulation are not fully adapted to the authority's financing scheme, as 55% of the budget is financed by contributions from the member states and efta countries. at the same time, it appears that the audited procurement procedures were not fully in line with the provisions of the financial regulation.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal that the commission should examine the possibility of new long-term sustainable funding for the authority, precisely to ensure its independence and to enable it to exercise its powers as a european authority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011. the authority is a newly established agency based in frankfurt am main, which was established by regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 and officially started its operations on 1 january 2011 as an independent authority. in addition to its new mandate, the authority took over all existing and current tasks and responsibilities from the european committee of inspectors of insurance and occupational pensions (ceiops) (all assets, liabilities and all ongoing operations of ceiops were automatically transferred to the newly established authority). according to the annual accounts, the general budget of the authority for 2011 amounted to eur 10 667 000 and the total budget revenue amounts to eur 9 387 070,78 (of which eur 5 120 035,36 representing 80% of the budget from the member states received in 2011). we call on the european commission to examine all options for new long-term sustainable funding for the authority, ensuring its independence in the context of the commission's forthcoming review of the agencies' financial mechanisms and activities, to be presented by 2 january 2014 at the latest.
mr president, we also granted discharge to the executive director of the european institute of innovation and technology for 2011 in order to acknowledge the overall satisfactory results of the newly-created institute in terms of budgetary and financial management. however, i am concerned at the high level of carryovers related to operational expenditure, which accounted for 96.79% of the eur 21.9 million of appropriations carried over from 2011 to 2012. swift action should be taken by the institute in this respect. it should also address the serious shortcomings related to grant agreements. between september and december 2011, the institute made final payments to a total value of eur 4 000 for three grant agreements that were signed well after the start of activities. this is not in accordance with our rules. these deficiencies must be resolved as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the institute of innovation and technology's budget execution in 2011 was very high. however, i would like to point out that the institute recorded a negative budget result of eur 1 824 955,81 in 2011. in order to ensure the efficient management of union funds, the institute should separate as far as possible the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer. an accounting system is also needed to enable the use of funds to be verified and reflected in the union accounts. last but not least, an appropriate payment procedure could ensure sound financial management of union funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2011. in 2010 and 2011, the institute and its partner directorate-general, the directorate-general for education and culture (dg eac), worked together to create the appropriate internal structures and procedures to enable the institute to manage union funds in accordance with the principle of sound financial management and to meet the minimum conditions for financial autonomy. those conditions shall establish the following: effective separation of the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer; a functioning accounting system enabling the use of funds to be verified and reflected in the union accounts; an appropriate payment procedure ensuring sound financial management of union funds. on 23 march 2010, the institute signed a hosting agreement with the government of hungary. under this agreement, the host member state undertakes to contribute to the institute's staff costs, which must cover the salaries of 20 staff members, for a period of five years. the 2011 contribution shall consist of five annual instalments of eur 1 560 000.
mr president, i voted to grant discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in order to underline and acknowledge the efforts made by the agency in terms of transparency and the way it prevents and manages conflicts of interest. i would like to say that the european medicines agency is the agency which has made the best progress since last year on dealing with issues of conflict of interest. i therefore welcome its commitment to undertake in 2013 a review of the implementation of its revised policy on handling conflicts of interest and to implement an ex-ante and ex-post check on the handling of conflicts of interest by mid-2013. as i said, this agency is the most advanced in the area of handling conflicts of interest in the proper way. the 2010 discharge report urged the introduction of a system of remuneration for services provided by authorities in the member states based on real cost. i regret that the management board has refused to move forward on this issue, despite the different proposals submitted. i therefore welcome the agency’s initiative to seek assistance from the commission on this matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as there are reasonable assurances from the court of auditors that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, i must point out that the agency did not adequately manage conflicts of interest, although it had developed some of the most advanced policies and procedures for declaring, assessing and managing conflicts of interest. i believe that the recommendations made by the court of auditors should be strictly followed by the european medicines agency. i also believe that the agency will need to engage in a structured dialogue with civil society on issues related to conflicts of interest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011. the agency's budget shall be financed both from the union budget and from fees paid by the pharmaceutical industry for applying for, obtaining or maintaining an authorisation to place products on the union market. it is noted, on the basis of estimates contained in the annual accounts, that in 2011, 77,7% of the agency's revenue came from fees, a share that increases each year, the relative percentage reflecting the revenue from union contributions being 18,3% in 2011. according to the court of auditors, there is a need to improve the transparency of staff selection procedures. it is noted with concern that the members of the selection board did not complete their declarations of conflicts of interest in all cases or did not do so in time and there is no evidence that any action was taken to remedy the previously identified issues. parliament regrets that the procedures applied by the selection board were not always properly documented and there is no evidence of how the pre-selection method of candidates was established or that questions for the written tests or for the interviews were formulated before those exams.
mr president, although it was granted discharge, the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction should focus its attention in the near future on improving its procedures related to the decommitment of funds and its treasury policy. the centre needs to better plan its decommitment procedures in order to avoid funds being blocked unnecessarily; which is the current situation in 51 cases, representing a total value of around eur 90 000. moreover, i expect the centre to adopt and implement without delay a treasury policy to minimise the spread of financial risk while aiming at adequate returns, together with a comprehensive policy on exceptions and deviations from established processes and procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011, as the implementation rate of the appropriations for commitments and payments is close to 100%. however, i must note that 51 cases, totalling eur 90 053, were detected by the court of auditors in which the appropriations carried over in 2012 did not correspond to existing legal commitments and should have been disbursed and returned to the commission by the end of 2011. the annual cost of approximately eur 275 000 for unused office space in the former building of the observatory and in its new premises should also be reduced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2011. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, based in lisbon, was established by regulation (eec) no 302/93. the overall budget of the observatory for the financial year 2011 amounted to eur 16 274 205,07 compared to eur 15 900 323 in 2010, representing an increase of 2,35%. it is clear from the final annual accounts that the observatory has the following revenue in its budget: eur 15 400 000 from the subsidy granted to the observatory by the commission; eur 379 934,67 from the contribution of norway as a member of the observatory; eur 400 000 allocated from the instrument for pre-accession assistance. the european parliament notes from the court of auditors' report that the observatory currently bears an annual cost of approximately eur 275 000 for unused office space in the former observatory building and in its new premises. we ask the observer to continue its efforts, in cooperation with the commission and the national authorities, to identify optimal solutions for unused office space and to inform the discharge authority accordingly.
mr president, we also granted discharge to the executive director of the european agency for maritime safety. however, the agency must make improvements and should focus its attention on improving its procedures related to the decommitment of funds and its asset management. it needs to better plan its decommitment procedures in order to avoid funds being blocked unnecessarily, as this currently takes place for budget commitments amounting to eur 90 000. concerning asset management, the court of auditors identified unexplained differences between the recorded annual and cumulated depreciation and found that the accounting procedures and information on costs were not reliable for internally-created intangible assets. these shortcomings must be solved as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011. however, i should note that for some budgetary commitments of eur 0,9 million, there were no corresponding legal commitments, which means that the agency should have decommitted and reimbursed this amount to the commission at the beginning of 2012. however, the agency took steps to ensure that the remaining commitments that did not correspond to existing legal obligations would be disbursed by the end of the year. the transparency of recruitment procedures within the agency will also need to be improved in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011, as the european court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency has established a set of guidelines and procedures for the management of its marine pollution response assets. these have been consolidated in a coherent manner in a compendium including a chapter on the tender procedure and a detailed procedure for establishing the relevant amortisation book value. we ask the agency to examine and eliminate possible conflicts of interest when recruiting experts and staff from the sector it oversees. we draw the agency's attention to the need to improve its asset management, as there are unjustified differences between the records for annual depreciation and those for cumulative depreciation. parliament also urged the commission to submit a proposal for multiannual funding of the agency's work in response to marine pollution. we draw the agency's attention to the european parliament's resolution of 10 may 2012 on discharge 2010 and ask the agency to comply with the recommendations of that resolution.
mr president, i supported the proposal to grant discharge to the executive director of the european network and information security agency and voted in favour of amendments 1 and 3, which delete paragraph 9 of the present report. although i strongly condemn the duplication of resources or agencies having two different seats, i believe that the present case is somehow different. from a practical point of view, the agency in its current location in heraklion experienced difficulties related to access to the island and the lack of services such as schooling. as a consequence, it was difficult to attract and keep duly-qualified staff members, and travel costs relating to missions were very high. though imperfect, i believe that the compromise found by opening a branch of the agency in athens will help solve some of the problems associated with running the agency. this proves once again that whenever an agency is created, we should refrain from setting it up in a remote location, because in the end this will always lead to severe infrastructure issues and we will always find that we spend much more money on such agencies, in terms of both administration and staffing.
mr president, i understand that colleagues in the chamber are also prepared to give explanations of votes. if this is the case, i am happy to listen to them first and interrupt my explanations of votes. then i will continue until the end of the time allowed me.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011. the european court of auditors has already given assurances on the reliability of the 2011 annual accounts, as well as on the legality of the other operations. however, i cannot help but note that irregularities have been identified in relation to the transparency of budget estimates, procurement and recruitment procedures. however, the improvement in the budget execution rate compared to the previous year is a positive aspect. i therefore encourage the agency to continue its measures to improve the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2011, giving the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. on the basis of the court of auditors' report, it is found that the agency needs to improve the documentation of fixed assets, as their purchases are recorded at the invoice level and not at the level of each object purchased. the agency is requested to inform the discharge authority of the actions it has taken to remedy this deficiency. notes that the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2012 was published in oj c 180, 6.6.2012, p. the agency is invited to inform the discharge authority of the measures it has taken to remedy this deficiency. it is considered that some provisions of the staff regulations may create considerable administrative burdens. the commission is encouraged to allow for a certain degree of simplification of the provisions of article 110 of the staff regulations as regards the agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because in the context of long-term economic and financial difficulties, reflected in the austerity measures taken by many member states, we must continue to demonstrate a high level of budgetary responsibility. parliament's bureau and the committee on budgets should continue to cooperate closely during the annual budgetary procedure. we have to take into account the costs that will arise in 2014 with the accession of croatia and that will have to be covered for a full year. these costs could amount to up to eur 13,6 million. additional costs will also arise with the election of the new parliament. i welcome the proposed cuts to the 2013 budget in the areas of translation (-56%) and interpretation (-23%), as well as in rent (-60%), internet television (-38%) and building improvements (-31%).
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal for prudent and transparent management of long-term investment projects, such as parliament's building projects, in the current austerity context, as well as cost management, better project planning and strict project monitoring.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that cuts should be made to the 2014 budget of the european parliament in a number of areas: €1.25 million for the provision of space, €1 million for the expenditure on publications in the official journal of the european union, €0.5 million for energy consumption and others. i would point out that a substantial saving of €180 million could be made if parliament had a single seat in brussels. on another note, the allocation of €39.7 million for next year's european elections is absolutely necessary. communication campaigns to citizens are vital to regain their trust and to keep them in our cause.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the estimate of the revenue and expenditure budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2014. in the absence of an agreement on the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff) by the end of the year, article 312 (4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the application of the ceilings corresponding to the last year of the current mff, and article 30 of the current interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management provides for the extension of the 2013 ceilings, adjusted on the basis of a fixed deflator of 2% per year, until the adoption of a new mff. it is noted that in 2014 all costs related to the accession of croatia will have to be covered for a full year. the estimated direct costs, which could amount to eur 13,6 million, including support for croatia's integration into the union, are noted. we believe that in the current austerity context, long-term investments such as parliament's real estate projects should be managed with prudence and transparency. we stress that the financial implications of the european elections are exceptional and acknowledge the efforts already made to budget these one-off costs. the secretary-general is requested to find a way to spread these costs over the entire parliamentary term in the future.
in writing. − one of the main reasons for the success of the european project is the importance that both the european institutions and the member states have attached to political and institutional solidarity. as the relationship between european states is not only one of close political, cultural and social ties but also of deep economic interdependence, the creation of a financial assistance mechanism for non-euro area states is important for the strengthening of the european union. i support the development of this mechanism, because it is also necessary for the coordination of institutional dynamics outside the euro area. as a number of legislative measures have significantly changed the institutional relationships within the euro area in recent years, it is necessary to adapt the links with the member states of the european union that have not adopted the single european currency to the new financial architecture. the development of the european union depends on the creation of a mechanism capable of ensuring a level playing field between actors in the euro area member states and those operating in non-euro area countries.
in writing. − at the european summit in june 2012, the heads of state or government announced that, once the single supervisory mechanism was operational, the european stability mechanism could be used directly to recapitalise euro area banks. however, the same possibility would not exist for non-euro area member states opting for single supervision. member states outside the euro area have access to the balance of payments (bop) instrument, whose means are, however, limited compared to the european stability mechanism. however, the instrument has limited funds at its disposal. the bp instrument is considered not to exceed eur 60 billion. this funding limit is due to the fact that the funds are guaranteed by the eu budget.
in writing. − this interim report is a welcome proposal, introducing procedures for the granting of financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area. in order to ensure a level playing field between euro area and non-euro area member states, there is a need to promote a position to ensure that banks are recapitalised also in non-euro area member states. romania was one of the first countries to benefit from the balance of payments facility to stabilise its public finances. this balance of payments (bop) instrument will benefit all non-euro area countries in difficulty without access to the european stability mechanism.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this interim report, which is a step forward in the process of creating the banking union with its three components: the single supervisory mechanism, the single regulatory authority and the single deposit guarantee scheme. the main unresolved issue in this project remains the relationship with the non-euro area member states. they can join the single supervisory mechanism on a voluntary basis, but it is essential that the future single resolution fund be accessible to them in order to make it possible to recapitalise banks in non-euro area member states as well. most banks in countries that have not yet adopted the single currency come from the euro area, so the interdependencies are very strong and the mutual impact can be major in financial and economic terms. a fair, solidary and effective solution is therefore needed.
in writing. − i welcome the rapporteur's proposal on the possibility of establishing an indirect bank recapitalisation facility for the union countries not yet part of the euro area, for the possible involvement of these eu countries in the future single supervisory mechanism and in view of the need to provide them with a fiscal protection mechanism.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a financial assistance mechanism for member states whose currency is not the euro, as the economic crisis has had a severe impact on them, causing a rapid deterioration in both their public deficit and balance of payments and their overall debt. member states outside the euro area have access to the balance of payments facility, but its resources are limited compared with the european stability mechanism. the initiative to streamline the procedures for granting financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area is therefore welcome. in this context, clear objectives and precise guidelines are needed in the elaboration and evaluation of the macroeconomic adjustment programme, in particular with regard to the procedural and policy requirements aimed at restoring a sustainable balance of payments and restoring the capacity of the state to fully fund itself on the financial markets. thus, to ensure a genuine level playing field between euro-area and non-euro-area member states, it is necessary to move in a direction that allows for bank recapitalisation in non-euro-area member states as well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a financial assistance mechanism for member states whose currency is not the euro. in 2002, council regulation (ec) no 332/2002 established the balance of payments (bop) mechanism, which provides financial assistance to member states whose currency is not the euro. the total amount available under that facility was increased from the initial amount of eur 12 billion to eur 25 billion in december 2008 and to eur 50 billion in may 2009 in response to the financial crisis. of the eur 50 billion, eur 13,4 billion was paid for romania, latvia and hungary, in addition to the precautionary reserve of eur 1,4 billion for romania. bp's financial assistance can play an important role in supporting member states to improve their administrative capacity to absorb union funds more efficiently. i voted for both the council and the commission to take account of a number of requests before the proposal for a regulation is sent to the european parliament. among these requests, i consider it important that no link or material conditionality be established between the bp mechanism and the use of the structural funds in the bp proposal.
with economic growth of only 1.5%, 2011 was a particularly important year for the european central bank. it represents a period in which the risks to the stabilisation of the euro area have increased considerably. no one disputes the outstanding achievements of the european central bank, but despite the improvements made during 2011, there were problems that persist today due to the bank's inability to send positive signals to the markets. the expansionary policies of this institution did not have the expected effects in terms of credit growth, but on the contrary, loans to the private sector halved, from 2,4% in 2010 to 1,2% in 2011. as a lack of credit is one of the main reasons for the slowdown in the european economy, i call on both the european central bank and the commission to focus their efforts in the future on promoting reforms to improve access to finance, strengthen global competitiveness and, by implication, generate sustainable economic growth.
mr president, mr luhan asked me to ask you if you also have explanations of vote on the lópez-istúriz white report.
in writing. − the actions taken by the european central bank in 2011-12 have played an important role in ensuring the stability of the euro area and financial markets. maintaining this proactive stance of the institution is essential for european economies to successfully overcome the consequences of the economic and financial crisis. the institutional continuity of these interventions by the european central bank is important for the credibility of the single european currency in particular and of the european union as a whole. however, many questions still need to be answered. the level of corporate and household borrowing is still lower than before the crisis. equally worrying is the fact that the level of loans to this destination decreased in real terms during 2011. in addition, together with the european central bank, european decision-makers must take measures to stimulate sme financing, as this segment of european economies is significant for the overall competitiveness of the european union and its innovative capacity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because 2011 was a year of many challenges caused by economic and financial conditions. this explains the need for changes in the guidelines and procedures of the european central bank (ecb) during the year. in this context, the ecb has consistently sought to create an anchor of stability and confidence. in the second half of 2011, the inflation rate in romania decreased considerably from 7.5% to 3.4% due to both internal and external factors. domestic demand also contributed to the gdp growth. on another note, i would like to point out that since 2011 the governing council of the european central bank has been represented by men only, and i believe that a change must be made in this regard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european central bank's 2011 activity report. the measures taken by the troika have not produced the expected results. moreover, they have caused a worsening of the economic situation. the european union is now in recession, and many countries are experiencing very high unemployment. in this context, the troika must be subject to democratic control
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2011 annual report of the european central bank as, under article 282 tfeu, the primary objective of the ecb is to maintain price stability and the ecb should support the general economic policies of the union without affecting price stability. i voted for paragraph 18 which stresses that institutions that have received very significant liquidity support from the central bank should be subject to conditionality, including through the commitment by the institutions receiving such support to increase the level of lending by setting lending targets for the real economy, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises and households, without which these efforts could prove ineffective. i voted against amendment 8 which removes these conditions and replaces them with monitoring. in the absence of appropriate conditionality, non-standardised measures may not produce the desired effects but may increase volatility and encourage asset bubbles in financial markets or facilitate the process of reducing leverage without significant credit allocation counterparts. we therefore ask the ecb to carefully analyse the effects, both positive and negative, of these and other measures.
mr president, i voted for the discharge of the executive director of the european railway agency for 2011. in particular, i strongly support paragraph 11, which calls on the agency to scrutinise and prohibit possible conflicts of interest when hiring experts and staff from the sector it supervises. i regret that the agency is based in two different locations. this brings inefficiency and additional costs. the situation should therefore be solved as a matter of urgency. the two locations should merge into one in order to save money, time and human resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011, as the court of auditors has informed the european parliament of the assurances it has obtained as regards the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011. for the coming period, the agency will face a major challenge, namely the replacement of half of its operational staff. however, i would like to point out that the use of two headquarters by the agency leads to reduced efficiency and higher costs. the possible conflicts of interest will also have to be investigated more closely.
in writing. − i voted to close the accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011 because the agency contributes to the creation of a european railway area without borders and to ensuring a high level of safety, in a context where the european railway market remains fragmented and the interoperability of systems has not been achieved. we note that the rate of payments related to budget appropriations improved for all titles, but remained low for title iii 'operational expenditure', at 47% (39% in 2010). we call on the agency to take further action to address this situation as it is contrary to the principle of annuality. it is also recalled that the agency will have to replace half of its operational staff in the period 2013-2015. in this context, we ask the agency to carefully manage the duration of the contracts of the temporary staff members in order to ensure that the fulfilment of the agency's main tasks is not affected. we call on the agency to improve its staff selection procedures to ensure full transparency and equal treatment for all candidates.
mr president, the european securities and markets authority was granted discharge today. i believe the current financing scheme of the authority should be addressed as soon as possible, given that 60% of the budget is financed by the contributions of member states and efta countries. in my view this puts the independence of the authority at risk. therefore, i support paragraph 4 of the present report, which calls on the commission to evaluate the possibility of having the european securities and market authority, the european banking authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority funded entirely from the union budget. moreover, i commend the management board’s decision of january 2011 establishing the terms and conditions for internal investigations with regard to the prevention of fraud, corruption and illegal activity detrimental to the union’s interest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because there were reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, some of the provisions of the financial regulation are not fully adapted to the authority's funding scheme. 60% of the budget of the authority is financed by contributions from the member states and efta countries. the budget execution rate was also not very high. it is welcome, however, that the authority's recruitment procedures have become consistent with the recommendations of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the authority in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2011. the authority, a newly created agency based in paris, was established by regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 and officially started its operations on 1 january 2011 as an independent authority. the general budget allocated to the authority for the financial year 2011 was eur 16 964 913,92. in accordance with the founding regulation, 60% of the 2011 budget was financed by contributions from the member states and the european free trade association (efta) member states, and 40% was financed from the union budget. the applicable provisions of the financial regulation are thus not fully adapted to the authority's financing scheme, as 60% of its budget is financed by contributions from the member states and efta states. we consider that this issue should be addressed at the latest at the next revision of the financial regulation as regards the agencies and ask the commission to assess this situation and report accordingly to the discharge authority.
mr president, i voted in favour of the discharge of this agency. however, i believe the foundation should pay greater attention when drafting its final accounts. information such as the actual contribution granted to the foundation should be explicitly and clearly mentioned, which is not the case now. moreover, i believe the foundation should further explore possible synergies with the european centre for the development of vocational training, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions and the european agency for safety and health at work. deeper integration between those agencies could definitely lead to economies of scale.
in writing. − i voted in favour of closing the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011 because the court of auditors found the operations underlying the foundation's annual accounts to be legal and regular. i should note that, as regards public procurement, nine tender procedures were cancelled. the situation of the foundation's work spaces also risks affecting the continuity of its activities. on the other hand, the foundation achieved a payment execution rate of 99,8% of the total payment appropriations available in 2011. in the future, the foundation will have to continue its efforts to find a satisfactory solution and inform the discharge authority of the actions taken to address this gap.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the european court of auditors has found the legality and regularity of the operations underlying the annual accounts of the european training foundation, so that it can continue the turin process on the reform of education and training in each country of the union, and i welcome the foundation's intention to continue its collaboration with partner countries on the basis of the flagship initiative 'youth on the move' and the 'agenda for new skills and jobs'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011, as the european court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the foundation's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. at the end of the financial year 2011, the foundation had a positive budget result of eur 117 686,58. the annual activity report of the foundation (aar) also indicates that it achieved a loan commitment rate of 99,69%, similar to the execution rate in 2010, but higher in nominal terms. we would like to underline that the foundation has successfully continued, for the second year running, the torino process, which aims to provide a concise, well-founded and comprehensive analysis of vocational education and training reform in each country, including the identification of key policy trends, challenges, constraints, good practices and opportunities. the findings of the analyses undertaken since 2010 are to be further consolidated at the conference and the agreement on the torino declaration, as well as the torinet initiative on capacity building in evidence-based policy making.
mr president, with regard to this agency – the european agency for safety and health at work – i am concerned that the its cancellation rate for appropriations doubled from 4% in 2010 to 8% of the total budget for 2011, which represents eur 1.3 million. this shows that the agency faces difficulties in the implementation of the actions foreseen in the annual work programme. therefore, quick measures should be implemented to reverse the tendency and respect the budgetary principle of annuality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european agency for health and safety at work for the financial year 2011, as the level of budget implementation for 2011 was better than in 2010. however, there are still some problems with the agency's headquarters, as an agreement has not yet been finalised. the agency's role is very important in helping to promote high standards of health and safety at work in the european union, especially in a time of economic and financial crisis and austerity policies. such standards can bring about an increase in the employment rate across the european union, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011. the european court of auditors' report shows that the agency's budget amounted to eur 16,4 million in 2011 compared to eur 15,5 million in 2010, representing an increase of 5,8%. at the same time, the cancellation rate of appropriations doubled from 4% in 2010 to 8% of the total budget for 2011 (eur 1,3 million), indicating difficulties in implementing the actions provided for in the annual work programme and in complying with the budgetary principle of annuality. parliament calls for a more realistic and feasible programme to be put forward in the future. we invite the commission to further explore, together with the european training foundation, the european centre for the development of vocational training, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions and the european agency for safety and health at work, the existing synergies between these agencies and to report to the discharge authority on the possibility of further integrating these four agencies before considering the possibility of adopting decisions to change the respective responsibilities and/or working methods of these agencies.
mr president, i voted in favour of granting discharge to the executive director of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2011, although this year again it did not receive any subsidy to cover its operations and the commission bore all the expenses incurred by the agency for the implementation of its 2011 budget. this means that the agency was integrated de facto into the commission in 2011. nevertheless, i welcome the fact that the commission re-established a specific budget line for the agency and that it received a subsidy of eur 98 000 from the commission in 2012. this is a very positive step towards the autonomy of the agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 for the euratom supply agency. the european court of auditors stated that it had obtained assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, i cannot help but note that in 2011 the agency did not receive any subsidies to finance its operational activities and that all the expenditure incurred by it in the implementation of its budget was borne by the european commission. this situation has persisted since 2008, when the agency was created, which is practically contrary to its statute.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2011, as the european court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the euratom supply agency was established in 1958 in luxembourg and decision 2008/114/ec adopted the new statute of the agency, which thus became a european agency. the agency did not receive any grants in 2011 to finance its operational activities and all expenditure incurred by it in the implementation of its budget was borne by the commission. unfortunately, this situation has persisted since the agency was set up in 2008. in 2011, the commission adopted a proposal to recreate a specific budget line for the agency (budget line 32 01 06) and as a result, the agency received in 2012 a grant of eur 98 000 from the commission, out of a total 2012 budget of eur 104 000 (including financial revenues). we believe this is a major achievement in solving today's problems.
mr president, we granted discharge to the executive director of this agency for the financial year 2011 to recognise the foundation’s overall satisfactory budgetary and financial management and the actions it implemented in order to meet the request from the 2010 discharge procedure. i welcome in particular the foundation’s statement that a register of all board and bureau decisions is available on its website and that all open recommendations of the internal audit service at the end of 2010 have been closed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, there are shortcomings in the implementation of the foundation's activities, which are financed under title iii and are contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. this situation must be remedied and measures taken to avoid it in the future. recruitment procedures will also need to be improved by increasing transparency. the foundation has a particularly important role to play in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy .
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011. the general budget of the foundation for the financial year 2011 was eur 20 600 000, which is a decrease compared to the financial year 2010 (eur 20 900 000). the european parliament is concerned at the court of auditors' finding that the foundation has carried over 47% of title iii appropriations (operational expenditure), a level totalling eur 3 400 000, of which eur 1 600 000 was not planned (22% of title iii). this indicates delays in the implementation of the foundation's activities which are financed under title iii and is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. the commission is invited to explore, together with the european training foundation, the european centre for the development of vocational training, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions and the european agency for safety and health at work, the existing synergies between these agencies and to report to the discharge authority on the possibility of further integrating these four agencies before considering the possibility of adopting decisions to change the respective responsibilities and/or methods of these agencies.
mr president, we granted discharge to the executive director of eurojust. nevertheless, the agency should implement specific measures to improve its budgeting process and execution rate of payment. for instance, in 2011, the agency’s execution rate under operational expenditure only reached 58%. with regards to the agency’s performance, i welcome the fact that eurojust – together with the economic crimes team – has finalised the strategic project on enhancing the exchange of information and mutual legal assistance between judicial authorities of the member states in the area of vat fraud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011, as i consider that the functioning of the institution is essential to the achievement of the union's objectives in creating an area of freedom, security and justice. the annual accounts of eurojust present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2011 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, and the transactions underlying the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011 are legal and regular in all material respects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011. on the basis of the annual accounts, it is noted that eurojust received eur 2 159 000 from the commission for participation in criminal justice programmes (joint investigation teams) and that no grants were received in 2011. the number of cases in which member states requested eurojust's support in tackling serious cross-border crime increased from 1 421 in 2010 to 1 441 in 2011. in particular, 218 fraud cases were recorded in 2011 and the number of coordination meetings on fraud cases increased from 17 in 2010 to 58 in 2011. we welcome the fact that in 2011, eurojust, in cooperation with the economic crimes unit, completed the strategic project on strengthening the exchange of information and mutual legal assistance between member states' judicial authorities in the field of vat fraud. in addition, 26 corruption cases were registered in 2011, compared to 31 in 2010, and the number of coordination meetings increased from 11 in 2010 to 19 in 2011.
i voted for this report because the procedures for granting financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area need to be harmonised. romania received €5 billion in financial assistance from the european union between 2009 and 2011 through the balance of payments facility. this contributed significantly to the reduction of the budget deficit to below 3% of gdp, as assessed by the commission in its last assessment in january 2013. this is why non-euro area member states must continue to benefit from financial instruments in the event of a deterioration in the economic situation, and the increase in available funds to eur 60 billion must be harnessed, used to its full potential. these states must be subject to a strict oversight process to ensure that the funds are used by the authorities of the member states exclusively for the purpose of financial recovery.
- i voted for this report. the market for security coupons amounts to 52 billion euros annually. in cross-border trading activities in securities, the different legal frameworks in the member states lead to ambiguous and dysfunctional situations that allow intermediaries to avoid taxation. the harmonization and clarification of vat rules applied to vouchers in all member states will simplify cross-border business relations between companies and consumers, especially as regards the payment of tax obligations. this will lead to a reduction in tax evasion, fraud and money laundering. i urge the commission to ensure and monitor the proper implementation of these regulations.
in writing. − several eu countries are currently facing the very critical problem of falling government revenue. overcoming the effects of the financial and economic crisis requires a high degree of stability of public finances. the adoption of measures which have the potential to increase both the efficiency and the transparency of the vat collection system on vouchers may be an appropriate solution in the current economic and financial circumstances. at the same time, these measures must strike a balance between the need for stability of public finances and the proper functioning of the internal market. the creation of an effective and uniform european statute, respecting the conditions of fair competition and the principle of avoiding double taxation, can lead to a more effective fight against tax evasion and to an improvement in the rate of collection of value added tax. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it is necessary to clarify and harmonise the european union rules on the application of vat to vouchers. this will have a positive effect on business by eliminating double taxation situations and uncertainty about tax compliance. it will also close loopholes that facilitate tax evasion by some companies that take advantage of differences in regulation between member states. by clarifying and harmonising eu rules on the vat treatment of vouchers, this proposal will significantly improve the functioning of loyalty schemes and gift vouchers. from a commercial point of view, this proposal will avoid market dysfunctions and situations of double taxation or non-taxation.
in writing. - a market of coupons worth over eur 50 billion a year is not negligible and, given that no directive has so far provided for rules on transactions with these instruments, i believe that we urgently need a common solution at union level. there are many cases where member states have tried to regulate this issue at national level and the result has not been the expected one. while some of these have accused the tax authorities of double taxation, there have been countless cases in which they have been accused of tax evasion. in this respect, i believe that a better classification of value coupons, the adaptation of the vat regime for this type of product and the transposition of the new community regulations at national level will clarify all tax uncertainties and remove one of the last barriers to traders who want to take advantage of the opportunities of the single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the common system of value added tax as regards the treatment of value coupons. council directive 2006/112/ec of 28 november 2006 on the common system of value added tax lays down rules on the time and place of supply of goods and services, the taxable amount, the chargeability of value added tax (vat) and the right to deduct. however, those rules are not sufficiently clear or exhaustive to ensure the consistency of the tax treatment of transactions involving security coupons, which has undesirable consequences for the proper functioning of the internal market. in order to eliminate the possibilities of tax evasion and fraud and to improve the collection of vat on vouchers and thus increase public revenues, it is necessary to strengthen the scope, neutrality and transparency of the tax treatment of voucher transactions. the european parliament has requested the commission to review the application of directive 2006/112/ec and to report to the parliament and to the council on its economic and fiscal impact by 1 january 2017. the report shall contain an analysis of the impact of this directive on the economies of the member states.
mr president, i voted to grant discharge to the executive director of europol for the financial year 2011. i will refer shortly to the weaknesses still observed in 2011 with regard to the physical verification and recording of assets and to the under-insurance of the office’s assets by about eur 21 million. i welcome, nevertheless, the fact that the office managed to save eur 2.6 million on its allocated 2011 budget by reducing the number of management board meetings and by reducing translation costs while modernising its internal capabilities. such best practices should be followed by other agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2011. i consider that the office has achieved its objectives through its work and that the assurances received from the european court of auditors as regards the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the office's operations are sufficient. i must point out, however, that the level of payments has been low compared to the level of commitments. the accounting system has also not been fully validated by the office's accounting officer. last but not least, measures will have to be taken to increase the transparency of recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european police office for the financial year 2011. the year 2011 was the second year in which the office has been functioning financially as a union agency. the office's general budget for 2011 amounted to eur 84 771 084,01 compared to eur 91 830 691,75 in 2010, which represents a decrease of 7,69%. we consider that the common elements of the office and the european police college should be further explored and reiterate the request to the commission to prepare a comprehensive impact assessment on a possible merger of the two agencies, presenting the costs and benefits, taking into account the complementarities of the office and the european police college and the potential for synergies. we also ask them to assess whether the merger could result in economies of scale and performance optimisation in cross-border cooperation in fighting crime. we note from the court of auditors' report that the transparency of the office's recruitment procedures could be improved and we invite the office to provide clarifications on possible shortcomings in its recruitment procedures.
mr president, on the european union agency for fundamental rights, although i voted for discharge to be granted i am deeply concerned by the fact that several staff members complained about harassment, allegedly after acting as whistle-blowers. therefore, i strongly support paragraph 7 which calls on the agency to provide details of the rules of procedure, legal framework and hearing modalities established for the launch and conduct of internal investigations and to protect witnesses’ anonymity when such internal investigations take place. on transparency, i regret that cvs and declarations of interest are not publicly available for all the management board members, as well as for the managerial team of the agency. i call on the executive director to take immediate action to remedy this situation and make these documents publicly available.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the european union agency for fundamental rights has a very important role in coordinating anti-discrimination policies at european level. in this period of economic crisis, when xenophobic tendencies are manifesting themselves in several states, all the means at the union's disposal must be used to combat such phenomena. the implementation of the union's founding set of fundamental rights is essential to ensure the viability of the european project and, for the financial year ended 31 december 2011, all the operations of the agency comply with applicable laws and regulations in all material respects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011. we welcome the fact that the agency's annual accounts present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2011, its results of operations and its cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. in 2011, the agency committed 100% of the credits received. however, as regards the appropriations paid, the rate of implementation achieved by the agency is 75% for title ii (administrative appropriations) and only 27% for title iii (operational appropriations). we invite the agency to implement specific measures to improve its budgeting process and the execution rate of payment appropriations for administrative and operational expenditure. we also note that in 2011 the european anti-fraud office (olaf) opened an investigation and request that the agency inform the discharge authority of the results of the investigation undertaken by olaf.
mr president, again i voted to grant discharge to frontex, to the executive director of frontex. however, there are improvements to be made. they relate to supervisory and control systems. i welcome the agency’s commitment to strengthening its ex-ante controls by systematically including requests for supporting documents. this will mitigate the risk of ineligible expenditure under the agency’s grants. however, i am concerned that the agency’s accounting system is still pending validation by its accounting officer. this situation has already been criticised in 2010, and i regret that no action was taken in this respect. i therefore urge the agency to speed up and complete this process by the beginning of the next discharge procedure. otherwise, i will personally ask for a postponement of discharge.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i consider the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union to be a model at european level in terms of coordinating activities relating to integrated border management. a joint effort is needed at european level to address the challenges of illegal immigration, which is likely to become more acute as the effects of the crisis are felt in the european union's neighbourhood. as regards the financial year 2011, i must however note that 33% of the agency's 2011 budget (eur 38,7 million) was carried over to 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) for the financial year 2011. the execution rate achieved by the agency is 96% for title i (staff expenditure), 74% for title ii (administrative expenditure) and 58% for title iii. we invite the agency to implement specific measures to improve its budgeting process and the execution rate of payment appropriations for administrative and operational expenditure. we regret that out of the total amount carried over by the agency, eur 5,1 million were global commitments and the agency's financial regulation does not provide a clear basis for such carry-over. we draw attention to the fact that, while carrying out reasonable checks, the agency has not generally requested supporting documents relating to the risk of ineligibility of grants financed by the agency for joint operations carried out by member states and schengen associated countries. we welcome the fact that the agency has adopted policies aimed at strengthening ex ante controls by systematically requesting the submission of supporting documents.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the issue related to the incorrect accounting treatment of tangible fixed assets related to the galileo satellite programme which led to the qualified opinion on the reliability of the agency’s 2010 accounts has been resolved. however, i am concerned that under the sixth framework programme for research and development the declarations of cost made by the beneficiaries are disputed, while some of the costs have been overstated. respectively, these issues represent an amount of around eur 1.7 million, and eur 456 000 for the grants that have been audited. concerning the grant payments made under the seventh framework programme for research and development, supporting documentation that would address the risk of ineligible expenditure is not automatically requested. this demonstrates that further improvements are required with regard to grant management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. however, i must point out that the transparency of the staff selection procedures was jeopardised, as the audited selection procedures indicated that the scores required for the written tests and interviews or for the listing of candidates deemed suitable were not established. however, it appears that in 2012 the procedures were improved and deficiencies were remedied.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2011. the gnss agency became financially autonomous in 2006. according to the court of auditors' report, the agency made grant payments under the seventh framework programme for research and development (fp7) in 2011 amounting to eur 5,8 million. however, even if it carried out verification checks, the gnss agency did not generally request supporting documents to verify the expenditure declared by the beneficiaries (public and private research entities), which would have reduced the risk of ineligible expenditure. we welcome the court of auditors' observation that the reason for its reservations on the reliability of the agency's accounts for 2010 - the incorrect accounting treatment applied to the bodily immobilizations related to the galileo satellite radio-navigation programme has been resolved. furthermore, from the information provided by the agency, it is noted that the agency has revised its selection procedure and since 2012 the pre-selection committee has been setting the scores required for qualification at the stage of designing the vacancy notice and these scores are now published in the vacancy notice.
mr president, the artemis joint undertaking also received discharge for the financial year 2011. i do have concerns regarding the low implementation rate, which dropped from 86% in 2008 to 18% in 2010. this is a huge difference. i call for further improvements in order to increase the implementation rate. i acknowledge the efforts made by the artemis joint undertaking and management control procedures, but they require further improvements, in particular with regard to financial information on the validation and payment of the cost claims received from the national authorities. a cost-benefit analysis of the merger with artemis should be undertaken, and parliament should be notified of the results. the assessment report should highlight the advantages and disadvantages of such a merger.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of strengthening european competitiveness and sustainability and facilitating the emergence of new markets and applications in society. however, the court of auditors expressed a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the joint undertaking's accounts on the grounds that it was not able to assess whether the ex post audit strategy provides sufficient assurance on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the joint undertaking should therefore submit to the discharge authority an action plan to address the possible lack of assurance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems across different sectors, with the aim of strengthening european competitiveness and facilitating the emergence of new markets and applications in society. the maximum union contribution to artemis for the 10 years shall be eur 420 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the 7th framework programme for research. in 2011, artemis intensified its efforts to develop and implement effective control procedures in the financial, accounting and management areas. it is recalled that further efforts are needed, in particular with regard to internal control standards. we invite the european court of auditors to present a special report to parliament on the common problems arising from the nature of joint undertakings and which should be addressed by joint undertakings together with their partners, in order to ensure their added value and the efficiency of the implementation of the union's demonstration, research and technological development programmes. we request that the report include an evaluation of the effectiveness of the creation and structure of the joint ventures.
mr president, this undertaking was again granted discharge by us today. i do have concerns regarding the low rate for payment appropriation, which is 64%, and about the significant delays between the publication of calls for proposals and signature of the grant agreements – 291 days in 2011. therefore i call on the joint undertaking to avoid such delays. also it should take all the measures to fully implement its internal controls and financial information systems, and the provisions regarding the protection, use and dissemination of research results. furthermore, i call on the joint undertaking to amend its financial rules according to the court of auditors’ opinion of 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. however, i would like to express my concern that the low rate of utilisation of payment appropriations indicates delays in the activities of the joint undertaking, including long time intervals between the publication of calls for proposals and the signing of grant agreements. i consider that the joint undertaking should take all necessary measures to avoid such delays by reducing the average time between the publication of the call for proposals and the signing of the joint undertaking grant agreements from 291 days for the first call launched in 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. clean sky was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of accelerating the development, validation and demonstration in the european union of green air transport technologies with a view to bringing these technologies into practice as soon as possible. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking for the 10-year period shall be eur 800 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. the final amending budget of the joint undertaking for 2011 comprised commitment appropriations of eur 175 000 000 and payment appropriations of eur 159 800 000. the utilisation rates of commitment and payment appropriations were also 94% and 64% respectively. parliament calls for a detailed report on the shortcomings, together with a number of concrete proposals for gradually improving utilisation rates. the low rate of utilisation of payment appropriations indicates delays in the activities of the joint undertaking, including long time intervals between the publication of calls for proposals and the signing of grant agreements. we urge the joint undertaking to take the necessary measures to avoid delays.
mr president, the eniac joint undertaking also was also granted discharge by us today. i welcome that eniac managed to improve the signed grant agreements for research activities during 2011 and 2012, with calls for proposals amounting to eur 146 million. nevertheless, in order to fully use the total available union contribution, calls for proposals with a budget of eur 185 million have to be launched. i call on eniac to make the best possible use of the allocated resources. the control weaknesses identified in regard to accounting and financial reporting should be counterbalanced by fully implementing its internal controls and financial information systems. last, the cost-benefit analysis of a merger with artemis should be assumed and parliament should be notified about the report, which should highlight the advantages and disadvantages of such a merger.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. however, although the annual activity report provides information on the results of the joint undertaking's operations, it does not include an assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of the internal control system and has some shortcomings, such as: lack of information on the implementation of the ex post audit strategy, which is why it cannot be established whether this key control is working effectively (this lack of information should have led to the issuance of a reserve); no information is provided on the partial validation of the financial and accounting systems of the joint undertaking; weaknesses identified by the controller in the financial and accounting reporting have not led to the issuance of a reserve in the annual activity report
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. the eniac joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research agenda' for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different application sectors. the joint undertaking was granted financial autonomy in july 2010. the maximum contribution from the union to the eniac joint undertaking for the period of 10 years shall be eur 450 000 000, to be paid from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. unfortunately, in january 2012, appropriations of the joint undertaking that should have been implemented by the end of 2010 and appropriations that should have been implemented by the end of 2011 were decommitted and an unused global commitment of eur 2,8 million from the budget line for operational activities in 2010 with a final implementation date of 31 december 2011 was not decommitted. we would point out that the joint undertaking has taken steps to avoid this situation from recurring in the future by defining a detailed procedure for the management of the closure of the year and by setting strict deadlines.
mr president, regarding the discharge on the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking: this joint undertaking was designed to focus on developing the framework for a rapid deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen cells. i welcome the progress made in budget implementation in 2011, with 99.8% utilisation rate for the available commitment and 87.9% for the payment appropriations. to sum up, the call for proposals since 2008 covers 84% of the maximum union contribution. the adoption of a business continuity plan in 2011 and the progress on the formalisation of the it security policies should be further continued by including the provisions referring to the powers of the commission’s internal auditor as part of the financial rules.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the joint undertaking's annual accounts for 2011 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2011 and its results of operations and cash flows for the year ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules. however, i note with concern that the budgetary procedure described in the joint undertaking's financial rules has not been followed, as the derogation granted by the commission to allow the inclusion of cancelled appropriations in the revenue and expenditure estimates for the following three financial years has been misinterpreted. i am also concerned that an amount of eur 10 400 000 representing unused global commitments from 2010, with a final date of execution of 31 december 2011, was not decommitted at the end of 2011 but in january 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. it is noted that the final budget of the joint undertaking for 2011 included commitment and payment appropriations of eur 117 000 000 and eur 60 000 000 respectively and the utilisation rates of the available commitment and payment appropriations were 99,8% and 87,9% respectively. it is noted that an amount of eur 112 000 000, representing commitment appropriations available for operational activities (title iii of the budget), was implemented by a global commitment for the 2011 call for proposals. the court of auditors expressed a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the joint undertaking's accounts on the grounds that 8 out of 12 ex post audits, as defined in the ex post audit strategy adopted by the governing board of the joint undertaking in january 2011, were completed by september 2012, covering eur 4 800 000 (27% of all declarations of expenditure received by the joint undertaking in 2011) and two of these audits detected significant errors, the largest of which (eur 764 000) was corrected in the following financial year.
mr president, the initiative on innovative medicines joint undertaking has received positive remarks from the court of auditors on the reliability of its accounts and financial transactions. the undertaking was designed to significantly improve the drug development process, with a view to producing more effective and safer innovative medicines. the 66% implementation rate for research activities relates to the call for proposals remaining at the same level. the total available union contribution will not be used. therefore, the joint undertaking has to make the best possible use of the allocated resources and to make the changed needed. i note the court of auditors’ positive reports regarding the internal control system in 2011, but further reforms are needed in relation to the budget and accounting procedures and the mechanism of control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the court of auditors expressed a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines. i note with concern that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 and the implementation plan were adopted by the governing board only on 4 april 2011 due to the time needed to agree on the scientific priorities to be incorporated into the annual implementation plan. it is also of concern that, although the joint undertaking gained its autonomy in november 2009, no internal audit activities on insurance as such were carried out until march 2012 by either the commission's internal audit service or the director of internal audit and the latter was directly involved in a number of operational activities as well as other advisory tasks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the financial year 2011. the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines (hereinafter the 'joint undertaking') was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process so that, in the long term, the pharmaceutical sector can produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the european parliament is concerned that the execution rate of the commitment appropriations of eur 159 000 000 available for research activities was 66% and that these appropriations were executed in the form of a global commitment covering the fourth call for proposals. it is noted that the high volume of unused appropriations in the administrative budget (44%) indicates that it was not based on realistic estimates. a detailed interim report on those shortcomings to the european parliament is requested, containing concrete proposals for gradually improving execution rates and for more realistic estimates of the financial resources needed.
mr president, iter and the development of fusion energy also received discharge for the financial year 2011. i welcome the fact that the joint undertaking’s governing board decided to broadly accept the court of auditors’ opinion no 4/2008. however, further reforms concerning a proper systematisation of the financial circuits and the segregation of incompatible duties need to be stepped up. nevertheless, the joint undertaking must enhance its efforts to increase competition in the area of operational procurement procedures as the number of tenders received is still low and, in one case, the decision to cancel an open procedure and use a negotiated one was not duly justified.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european court of auditors has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i regret to note that the internal auditor of the joint undertaking expressed doubts regarding the financial circuits as well as the separation of functions; therefore, the joint undertaking should without delay initiate an appropriate systematisation of the financial circuits and separate all incompatible functions. the joint undertaking should also fully implement and use an integrated tool for managing budgetary, financial and operational information, and complete the validation of the underlying systems by the accounting officer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011. the parliament underlines that the joint undertaking needs to make further efforts to maximise competition, as the number of tenders received in the public procurement procedures signed in 2011 for operational activities remained low and averaged two tenders, and as regards grants, the average number of proposals received was only one per call for proposals. parliament is concerned that the court of auditors' audit found, in relation to public procurement, that: no publication of a notice of intent is used to ensure better prior publicity for future procurement procedures; there is no system for monitoring and managing changes to requirements in contracts (thus, cost fluctuations cannot be identified and corrected); procurement procedures are often too long and there are shortcomings in the preparation of documents for these procedures; cost estimates are not sufficiently documented. parliament calls in this regard for a detailed progress report containing concrete proposals for the gradual elimination of the shortcomings.
mr president, the sesar joint undertaking has also received discharge from parliament today after the court of auditors gave a positive opinion. i call for the member states to acknowledge the joint undertaking’s crucial contribution to developing a modernised air traffic management system for europe, and to honour their commitment to achieving the goal of a single european sky, the completion of which is linked to that of the sesar programme. i welcome the formal validation of the business process in line with the financial rules of the joint undertaking. i call for further efforts to be made to ensure sound finances and continued respect for budgetary principles. however, i would like to stress that consulting the national aeronautical agencies is very important for adopting best practices and the best rules that are compatible with all the national systems. best practices should be extended to all the member states of the european union and bad practices halted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. at the end of the financial year 2011, the joint undertaking had a positive budget result of eur 15 600 000, with revenue of eur 91 200 000 and payments of eur 75 600 000. i believe that the joint undertaking should continue its efforts to ensure sound financial management and continue to respect budgetary principles. i welcome the fact that in 2011, following an independent external auditor's review of the work processes within the joint undertaking, the internal control systems were found to be functioning effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011. the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to carry out the single european sky air traffic management research programme (sesar), which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe. the joint undertaking started to operate autonomously in august 2007. we emphasise that the sesar joint undertaking will own all tangible and intangible assets created by it or transferred to it for the development phase of the sesar project, in accordance with a series of specific agreements concluded with its members. the budget for the development phase of the sesar project 2008-2013 is eur 2 100 000 000. the final budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 was eur 148 000 000 in commitment appropriations and eur 91 700 000 in payment appropriations. the utilization rates of the commitment and payment appropriations were 99,4% and 82,4% respectively. we call on the joint undertaking to continue its efforts to ensure sound financial management and to continue to respect the budgetary principles. we invite the joint undertaking to use all financial resources at its disposal to complete the development of the technology required for the timely implementation of the sesar programme.
in writing. − i welcome the amendments to the decision approving the hague convention on the acquisition of maintenance abroad for children and other family members and consider that the establishment of a common mechanism for the recovery of maintenance and other forms of family maintenance is a necessity. parents who migrate outside the eu are increasingly common and can even lead to the non-payment of a maintenance allowance, sometimes vital for a decent living, thus undermining the healthy development of minors. i voted in favour of the swift adoption of the amendments, which will allow the convention to enter into force at eu level and will facilitate both compliance with obligations and the international recovery of maintenance claims between family members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it is necessary to approve the amendments quickly, thus allowing the hague convention on the acquisition of maintenance abroad for children and other family members to enter into force as soon as possible in the european union. the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the obtaining of maintenance abroad for children and other family members is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism through which child support obligations can be claimed and enforced against a debtor domiciled in a third country. the amendments relate in particular to the situation of cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal.
in writing. − it is estimated that there are 16 million international couples in the european union and that around 30 million eu citizens live outside the eu. in 2007, 1.2 million divorces were recorded in the 27 countries of the european union (the latest figures). these figures illustrate the significant problems that may arise in the settlement and enforcement of maintenance decisions arising from situations where one parent lives in a third country. the 2007 hague convention on maintenance obligations complements the european union's domestic legislation on maintenance obligations, adopted on 18 december 2008: regulation (ec) no 4/2009 on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations. the regulation and the protocol on the applicable law will apply between the member states of the european union as from 18 june 2011.
in writing. − it is estimated that there are 16 million international couples in the european union and 30 million union citizens living in third countries. the problem of obtaining foreign child support will certainly become more acute in the years ahead. when families break up, it is often the children who suffer the most. this is why this legislation, which is primarily a child protection measure, is welcome. the european union already has solid rules guaranteeing that children receive financial support when one parent lives apart from the family in another eu member state. the european union's signature of this international convention ensures that children are afforded the same protection when one of the parents moves outside the european union. the best interests of the children must come first, and parents should not be able to avoid the responsibilities they have by leaving the european union.
in writing. − the report concerns the application of the hague convention on the award of child maintenance abroad. i consider that the mechanism provided for in that convention, by which maintenance obligations may be enforced against a debtor domiciled in another country, is of particular importance in the context of the increasing mobility in the european union and the increasing number of mixed families. i note, however, that the provisions of the convention are not yet sufficiently known; a large number of european citizens and even civil and family law practitioners do not have the necessary information on the applicable rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision amending annexes ii and iii to the council decision of 9 june 2011 on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the acquisition abroad of a maintenance pension for children and other family members. the objective of the hague convention on the foreign acquisition of maintenance for children and other family members is to ensure the effective acquisition of maintenance abroad by entitled persons. the hague convention is an important instrument for citizens as it provides a mechanism by which child support obligations can be claimed and enforced against a debtor domiciled in a third country. annex ii to decision 2011/432/eu indicates the reservation to be made by the european union upon approval of the hague convention on the acquisition abroad of a maintenance allowance for children and other family members. annex iii sets out the declarations to be made by the european union upon approval of the convention. member states have notified the commission of further changes to the reserve and declarations set out in annexes ii and iii. it is therefore necessary to amend those annexes before the deposit of the instrument of approval of the hague convention.
accession negotiations with croatia were concluded in june 2011. croatia will become a member of the european union on 1 july 2013, provided that the treaty of accession is ratified by all member states. we welcome the progress made by croatia in areas such as the judiciary, the fight against corruption, human rights and the protection of minorities and in relation to war crimes. as regards transport policy, further efforts are needed to increase the administrative capacity of the agency for railway safety and to establish a joint accident investigation body. in the energy field, further efforts are needed, in particular to complete legislative alignment in the field of the internal energy market and to ensure the development of a competitive gas and electricity market. croatia also has to meet the 2020 requirements for the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy. we welcome and expect a lot from croatia also in terms of implementing the european union strategy for the danube region.
croatia's accession to the european union will certainly bring added value to the european union, in particular in terms of contribution and participation to the danube strategy and, not least, to the south east europe region. i would like to make a few remarks on future developments in croatia and i would like to suggest: 1) that it continue to use ipa funds, cohesion funds and structural funds, 2) that it continue to cooperate with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and, not least, that croatia continue to cooperate with slovenia in order to dialogue and find solutions for territorial cooperation in their border conflicts.
it is undeniable that, compared with the previous report on turkey, it has made some progress towards modernisation and the building of democracy. turkey has made a number of important reforms in the judiciary as well as in other areas such as human rights, family protection and so on. but these reforms are a first step forward and the european union must encourage turkey to continue along this path, as many of these areas need sustained reforms to reach eu standards. the initiation of constitutional reform is a positive development and i hope that we will soon see concrete progress towards a constitution that meets the copenhagen criteria. it will be very important that the new constitution ensures the separation of powers in the state, clarifying the relationship between the state and religion, and guaranteeing the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. i welcome the positive developments at eu level, the lifting of objections to the opening of a new negotiating chapter. i think we should also open the chapter on the system.
mr president, firstly i would like to welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and his cooperation with all the other meps. secondly, i would remind you that we knew from the very beginning that the dialogue between pristina and belgrade would not be easy. and indeed it has not been easy. last week there was a failure in the dialogue, and today there was a new meeting. today it was the kosovan prime minister who left the meeting, but we still hope there will be an agreement. it is fundamental to the european union to continue to work towards reaching such an agreement. the balkans are a strategically-fundamental area for the eu, and solving the issue of serbia and kosovo is fundamental to bringing the two countries closer to the eu. we need to have a strategic vision there and to do everything in our power to reach goals which are common to both serbia and kosovo but also to the european union. the eu has to avoid any political ambiguity, which serves no viable long-term purpose. an eu failure in the serbia-kosovo negotiations will not be an isolated failure but a strategic one – a mistake of incredible proportions – that would allow external interference in an area that is essential for the union. i would remind you that last week there were rumours about the possible presence of a foreign military base in serbia. so what we need now is for the council to set a date for starting the negotiations. serbia deserves a date. the western balkans deserve a genuine commitment to see that the enlargement process is still realistic and tangible. i congratulate the commission again on the efforts it has made.
as you are well aware, the protection of ethnic minorities in serbia raises particular problems. in the timoc valley, the romanian minority is facing difficulties in respecting its fundamental rights. i also draw attention to the tendency to create an artificial linguistic identity, the so-called vlach language. at the same time, the serbian authorities are putting up all kinds of obstacles to prevent those who have enrolled their children in romanian language classes at school. at the same time, romanians in serbia need access to public radio and television stations, just as the serb minority in romania has access and funding at the same time! the romanian orthodox church in serbia does not enjoy the status of a traditional church, and its jurisdiction is limited to the serbian banat, and the romanian minority does not have access to services in their native language.
i am pleased to see that the motion welcomes the legal framework for minorities but also mentions its shortcomings. it emphasises the fair representation of minorities and access to quality education in minority languages. the integration of the western balkan countries is unthinkable without a lasting and reassuring solution to the minority issue. at the same time, it is sobering that the union is not paying the slightest attention to the countries that have already joined and is not demanding the same things from serbia that it is now demanding very rightly. citizens belonging to national minorities are also european citizens, and it is time that we are not treated as a security policy problem and a threat to stability, but that the enforcement of our purely civil rights makes discrimination against us an eu issue. i hope that no one is under any illusion that any member state will be able to solve its minority problems once and for all before accession and then not have to deal with them afterwards. national minorities are state-building factors, not some problem to be solved quickly and then not to be dealt with after accession.
in writing. the eu's paradoxical combination of dogmatism and double standards in the western balkans is responsible for its failure to mediate the serb-kosovo negotiations. undermining the chance for internal reforms, such failure pushes serbia towards russia, on a different agenda from the european one and thus towards a move away from the eu. the 'more for more' policy does not work in the western balkans, as eu integration is less pressing for the countries of this region than solving state security problems. national security issues can only be resolved in the context of a coherent vision for the entire region. integration policies cannot be mixed with policies to resolve constitutional and territorial crises. at the same time, until states address their identity and cohesion issues, they will not be able to make significant progress with integration policies. in the case of the serbo-kosovo crisis, the eu has demonstrated that it has no solutions to solve the problems of identity and national security. so we need new actors and new ideas. in this context, the training of a facilitator group, complementary to the eu, composed of candidate countries and member states with expertise and influence in the area, such as turkey and albania, romania and italy respectively, could be envisaged.
enlargement is a process that must be supported by absolutely all member states and, as is well known, five states have not yet recognised kosovo. the report by mrs lunacek encourages recognition, although this is the exclusive prerogative of each member state. and despite international recognition, kosovo has made absolutely no progress. i call for dialogue between serbia and the european union not to be conditioned by dialogue between serbia and kosovo. finally, i would like to say that the time allotted to this debate is impressive. i would have liked the republic of moldova to be equally privileged, a country with real european prospects.
several people have mentioned that five eu member states refuse to recognize kosovo. interestingly, in these countries, governments and politicians often ask the minorities there: when are you going to recognize the borders of the country? when are you gonna be loyal? it is clear that these five countries are not able to deal with their minorities in a proper european way. despite all the prejudices, we, the traditional national minorities of europe, were not happy that kosovo became an independent state. we wanted it to have a territorial and cultural autonomy within serbia. but history has taught us to take account of european realities. and now we're just cheering for kosovo to set an example for the five and other eu member states that can't respect their minorities. the ahtisaari plan, with its potential for cultural and territorial autonomy, should set an example for those eu member states - old and new - that are unable to guarantee human and community rights in a way that is reassuring to minorities.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the excellent results of the meeting of the representatives of the member states in clonakility on tuesday. the talks at this meeting are a good sign that an agreement on fisheries reform can be reached before the end of june. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. at this rate, we will be getting a new treaty sooner than a coherent solution for fishermen. the multiannual plans provide the fisheries sector with the stability and continuity it needs, and parliament must therefore be able to express its views on all the elements of these plans. in that case, parliament is not appealing to the goodwill of the council but invoking a right which is granted by the treaty of lisbon. the parliament and the members of the fisheries committee also do not want to impose their own views on the plans, but rather those measures requested by the local communities. moreover, the legal services have already spoken, too. i find it difficult to imagine what the consequences would be of such an institutional deadlock in any other area in which parliament has, by virtue of the treaty of lisbon or the previous treaties, the right of co-decision. the irish presidency has had and has responsibilities for reforming the common fisheries policy and has shown openness, transparency and a concern for efficiency and results in this process. i hope that, following this debate, he will do the same in seeking a solution to the current institutional deadlock. i am also convinced that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will also play an active role in identifying this solution.
as rapporteur for iceland of the european parliament, i have a legitimate interest in the union's strategy in the arctic region. iceland, although a small country, plays an important role in the region this is also evidenced by the fact that the first director of the newly created arctic council secretariat is an icelander, and that the first meeting of the arctic circle will take place in october in reykjavík. i am pleased to note, on the one hand, that since the last debate in parliament on the subject we are discussing today, the commission has drawn up a policy for the arctic and, on the other hand, the arctic council has strengthened its political and administrative capacity. it is, i think, time for this institution to open up to those who are already extremely involved in the region. the european union is a major contributor to research in the arctic, allocating around €20 million per year for this purpose between 2007 and 2013. it is therefore clear that for us, participation as a permanent observer in the arctic council is first and foremost a matter of responsible partnership. i don't know if we can say the same for other candidates for that status. i feel that in china, it's more about ambition. the european union has proven that when based on common rules and values, cooperation is the most successful instrument for the development of a region. the arctic states are, of course, the ones who have the most say in the region in which they are located. but recent history can provide us with useful lessons.
the arctic is an area of increasing strategic importance. amid global warming and the melting of the ice cap, large reserves of hydrocarbons have been discovered, which arouse the interest of several countries. the european union has a major role to play in supporting cooperation in the area, but also in addressing the challenges currently facing the region. the main objective for a coherent strategy should be to promote the rational and sustainable use of arctic resources. particular attention will thus have to be paid to environmental protection. the energy resources found in the arctic ocean must be exploited in a responsible way that does not affect the ecosystems of the region. i'm particularly concerned that the area could start a real competition for resources.
april 2013 marked the first anniversary of the european citizens' initiative. happy birthday to you! this instrument of participatory democracy is in its infancy, of course, but it has already achieved important successes. we were informed by the commission that one of the initiatives - right to water for all - has passed one million signatures and continues to collect signatures. the european parliament has made a substantial contribution to the drafting of the text: more than two thirds of its content was indeed produced by us, the meps, demonstrating once again our commitment to strengthening the involvement of european citizens in defining or changing european policies. and we should be congratulated on that! i am equally very proud to have personally contributed with my distinguished colleagues in the committee on petitions to this substantial advance of european participatory democracy. i would now like to call on the commission to pay greater attention to the risk of this instrument being used for nationalist and extremist purposes in some member states, and to call on the commission to put pressure on the member states to create all the conditions provided for in the directive for the exercise of citizens' rights.
the balance sheet after the first year of the european citizens' initiative shows that out of 14 initiatives, only one reached the one million mark. i very much appreciate the commission's flexibility in this respect. the past year has shown that the procedure is very complex and unfortunately not harmonised at member state level. in order not to create obstacles to citizens' political participation in this procedure at the level of the european union, i believe that in the future it is necessary: 2) a platform for maintaining websites that is certainly easier to use in this respect, i think we should also consider the possibility of centralising this system and having the commission be the main responsible for this, and 3) the creation of contact points and information for citizens, respectively advice at the level of the member states.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very valuable and important debate. the citizens’ initiative, i think we all agree, is a very important element in reinforcing european democracy and encouraging citizens to get involved and have an influence on european issues of concern to them, wherever they live in the union. we hope that very soon one of these initiatives will formally land on the table of the commission so we can start dealing with it. it has been a success, but of course – as you all explained, and as i also said in my remarks – it has had some teething problems. some of these are related to initial problems, and some we need to look at. we all have a responsibility here: the commission, which put forward the proposal, and you and the council as co-legislators, who have agreed on the way things are supposed to work. we are ready, for the commission’s part, to continue to host the online collection system of the organisers. this is a temporary – and far from ideal – solution, but we hope that it will help until we find a permanent solution. the question of whether or not we need to set up a centralised system is, of course, key here. i have been listening to different comments here, and we are looking into that. the commission also very much agrees with this, and it has been pushing member states to lower – to the greatest possible extent – the different thresholds and data requirements, so that all citizens in the european union can truly contribute and participate here. we are also in contact with member states on extending the deadline. some of you have asked about this, and we have had a very constructive dialogue on this. i am quite confident that we will find a solution very soon. mr aylward, you were kind enough to ask a question on an initiative which i was involved in. i think my views are very clear and known on this specific issue. the correct answer to your question is, of course, that treaty changes are not included in what can be proposed in this. this is the year of the citizens. in a way, every year should be the year of the citizens, but this is a particular year of the citizens that we need to take very seriously. on the commission side, we are very much involved. vice-president reding, vice-president šefčovič, myself and all my colleagues are very active in travelling around all the member states, visiting different students, schools, organisations, etc., and all of us bring up the issue of this possible initiative. and we will continue to do so, because this is a great initiative. you, of course, as the elected representatives of the people of europe, have a responsibility, and i am sure that you will raise the issue on all occasions. there is an upcoming campaign for the european elections next year, and this will also be an excellent opportunity to do that. together we must do everything we can to improve the functioning of this initiative and to spread the knowledge, because it is indeed a very strong and powerful tool. thank you very much for this debate. you can be sure that i will report directly on all the different interventions to vice-president šefčovič, and we will continue to follow this very closely. i am sure we will come back to this issue here in plenary.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative has emerged as a tool to democratically strengthen european decision-making. however, more than a year after its launch, one initiative alone has managed to gather over 1 million signatures, although the geographical criterion is not yet met. in the next period, i think we'll see the best of how the instrument works. the verification of signatures, the examination by the commission and the hearing in parliament will prove the viability of the initiatives tabled so far. i think the main shortcomings are related to the way signatures are collected, and the need for a single platform, which only the commission can implement. that's why i'd like to express my support for one of the initiatives that aims to create just such a unique platform.
i would like to join my colleagues in criticising the lack of information to parliament on the updating of the scoreboard for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances. as regards the outcome of the recent analysis on correcting these imbalances, published on 10 april, i regret to note that the european executive is omitting certain important aspects. first, it does not take surplus as an indicator of macroeconomic instability. thus, germany, which has a surplus of around 6% of gross domestic product, is not explicitly included in the analysis. moreover, the decline in the share of national income devoted to wages, a source of negative competition at european level, is becoming a model to follow. however, i believe that to close the gap between the core and peripheral economies, we need to raise wages in the group of countries with the strongest economies, while boosting competitiveness and demand in the peripheral countries.
mr president, i voted for this report. i welcome the simplification of visa issuing that will make it easier for ukrainians – especially for young people, representatives of civil society and journalists – to enjoy freedom of movement. however, i would like to say that the free regime should depend on the progress made by the ukrainian government in reforms outlined in the visa liberalisation action plan. i insist on respect for the rule of law, an impartial and independent judiciary and, of course, the fight against fraud and corruption.
in writing. − i support the amendment of the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and ukraine. the amended agreement facilitates travel for civil society representatives, ngos, journalists and young people by simplifying the documentation requirements they need to present when applying for a visa and by extending the categories of persons eligible for a multiple-entry visa with a longer period of validity. the amendment of this agreement also marks an important step towards the introduction of visa-free travel for citizens of ukraine and the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the agreement between the european union and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas has been a real success, with a nearly negligible visa refusal rate. however, the evaluation of the functioning of the agreement has highlighted that certain amendments should be made to correct any misinterpretations of the text. clarifications have been made as regards the provisions on the period of validity of multiple-entry visas, the provisions on the cost of outsourcing or the system for applying the urgent fee. the apparent setback in eu-ukraine relations should not affect the introduction of a visa-free regime for ukrainian citizens travelling to the eu, which would ensure that ukrainian citizens receive the same treatment as european citizens travelling to ukraine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i truly believe that the free movement is a stepping stone to enhance cooperation between the european and ukrainian society. in direct connection with the renewed european neighbourhood policy, the improvements introduced by this amendment will facilitate exchange of knowledge and expertise with ukrainian authorities and contribute to reinforce a strong european identity. moreover, i think that it is relevant to dissociate visa policy from political climate, because the citizens are the first and foremost to be impacted by such policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the eu-ukraine agreement amending the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, approving the conclusion of the agreement. i believe that an agreement on visa facilitation is of particular importance for citizens and strengthens contacts between peoples. the amendments to this agreement facilitate travel for civil society representatives, ngos, journalists and young people. a joint commitment between the eu and ukraine can effectively contribute to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by promoting greater ease of contact and travel for citizens of the two partner states. the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas entered into force on 1 january 2008. this amended agreement builds on the successes of the original agreement and provides substantial improvements for ukrainian citizens. the main changes to the agreement include: simplification of the requirements for the documents to be presented to justify the purpose of the trip for more categories of applicants, the provisions on the period of validity of multiple-entry visas have been clarified and have become much more concise, the system for applying an emergency fee has been revised.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's recommendation to approve the amendments to the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova. this new agreement can be seen as a recognition of the efforts made by the republic of moldova in implementing the visa liberalisation action plan. however, the moldovan authorities still need to show determination and clarify certain aspects of visa-free travel rights and obligations in national legislation, including information on the rules governing access to the labour market in the european union and liability for any abuse of the visa-free regime, as the rapporteur also stressed. i hope that this step towards strengthening the relationship between the european union and moldova will provide an impetus for the country to implement the necessary reforms in the area of freedom, security and justice to continue its european path.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation and i want to welcome its adoption as it represents an important step towards a visa-liberalised regime for citizens of the republic of moldova. the reforms of the filat government have brought moldova closer to the european union, and the progress made in the negotiations on the association agreement and the visa liberalisation action plan is evidence of this. by simplifying visa procedures, the costs and waiting times for moldovan citizens will be reduced. it is another clear sign that the union wishes to deepen its relations with moldova, and in this connection i would like to express my hope that the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova will be signed as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation, as i believe that every opportunity to bring the eu and its eastern neighbours closer should be seized. by facilitating the issuance of visas to the citizens of the republic of moldova, the eu clearly indicates its commitment to strengthening its partnership with moldovan society. through the amendments made to this agreement, the eu has stressed its willingness to foster cooperation, cultural dialogue, and the exchange of knowledge between european and moldovan citizens. since freedom of movement has a positive impact on the eu’s economy, labour mobility should be constantly improved.
in writing. − the relationship between the european union and a pro-european state such as the republic of moldova deserves special attention. i suggest that the following social problem, which is frequently encountered, should be taken into account in future: a very large number of children do not live with their parents, as they are away working in different member states of the european union. the reason for this situation is the requirement for the issuing of visas for minor children. by denying children the right to parental education, we risk causing a breakdown in society. a possible solution, which we should consider in the future, is to exclude the visa requirement for minor children with one or both parents, moldovan citizens, residing in the territory of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. the visa facilitation agreement, the common visa application centre, the mobility partnership (where moldova is a pilot country) and the launch of the eu-moldova visa dialogue in 2010 have significantly eased travel conditions to the eu for moldovan citizens and paved the way for a free-visa travel regime. given the european aspirations of the republic of moldova, future establishment of a short-term visa-free regime and simplification of the documents concerning the purpose of the journey will simplify not only travel conditions, but will also foster economic development and cultural and scientific cooperation. the eu accounts for more than 40 % of moldova’s total trade and represents the largest assistance donor with 550 million during 2010-2013. nevertheless, moldova has to further implement comprehensive reforms, especially towards an efficient border management system, including the transnistrian section, a more proactive stand on preventing and fighting corruption, organised crime and human trafficking, and enhanced cooperation with neighbouring countries, mainly ukraine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the visa facilitation agreement, as it represents an important new step for the republic of moldova on the european path. today's vote is a deepening of cooperation with the european union and a recognition of the progress made by the authorities of the republic of moldova and the efforts of the moldovan people. the agreement is a key point in the visa liberalisation process and an incentive for moldova to implement the necessary reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice. this agreement will certainly make a difference for a wide range of moldovan citizens wishing to travel to the european union. the republic of moldova shall ensure that the visa is issued in accordance with the law of the republic of moldova and that the visa is issued in accordance with the law of the republic of moldova. all citizens of the republic of moldova will have the possibility to apply through an external service provider with which a member state cooperates for the purpose of issuing a visa, in exchange for a fee of up to eur 30. citizens of moldova will be exempted from the obligation to present themselves in person for the purpose of applying for a visa.
in writing. − romania, along with a number of other eu states, supports the acceleration of the visa liberalisation process for the republic of moldova, after the country has strengthened its position within the eastern partnership. the chisinau authorities have made progress in fulfilling the commitments made to the european union in the visa liberalisation action plan, which are reflected in the latest neighbourhood policy report. through the amendments to the visa facilitation agreement and the improvements made, the european union is sending a clear message to the citizens of moldova, encouraging an even closer approximation to community principles, including in the areas of justice, security and freedom. i am convinced that the future introduction of a short-term visa-free regime for moldovan citizens travelling to the european union will further support the european aspirations of this state. let us not forget that the lifting of restrictions on movement implies only a temporary increase in migration, a trend that is stabilising as the benefits to the economies of the countries concerned from freedom of movement become clear. in conclusion, i am confident that the good relationship between the european union and moldova will set an example for the other eastern partnership countries, based on the principle of 'more for more', which can give a strong impetus to democratic and economic reforms.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report and the important simplifications made with regard to the issuing of visas for citizens of the republic of moldova wishing to travel to the european union for short periods of time. i consider it particularly important to simplify the documents required for certain categories of applicants and to simplify the criteria for issuing multiple-entry visas for family members of european union residents. the full waiver of the visa fee for close relatives of eu citizens and other categories of citizens is also welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova amending the agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. as a result of the amendments to the agreement, the documents to be presented concerning the purpose of the journey have been simplified for a wide range of applicants, such as drivers providing international freight and passenger transport services, journalists and their technical staff, close relatives of eu citizens and participants in official eu cross-border cooperation programmes. there are simplified criteria for issuing multiple-entry visas for a wider category of persons, such as spouses, children and parents visiting citizens of the republic of moldova legally residing in the eu. beneficiaries of the full visa waiver are: close relatives of eu citizens, journalists' support staff, young participants in seminars, conferences, sports, cultural or educational events organised by non-profit organisations, representatives of civil society, participants in official eu cross-border cooperation programmes. it will be possible to apply for a visa through an external service provider with which a member state cooperates, against a fee of up to eur 30. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of amending the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and moldova, because i believe that it is essential for the european union to give clear signals of its intention to strengthen relations with the republic of moldova. by giving its consent today, the european parliament guarantees well-deserved benefits to the citizens of the republic of moldova and, overall, contributes to bringing the republic of moldova closer to the european union. i see today's vote as an important step towards the ultimate objective of visa-free travel for the citizens of the republic of moldova. in this regard, i encourage the republic of moldova to further show commitment to reforms in the framework of the action plan on visa liberalisation and call on the commission to continue supporting the republic of moldova in its efforts, so as to achieve a full visa liberalisation as soon as possible.
in writing. − the adopted resolution assesses the impact of the economic and financial crisis in third countries, with a special focus on developing and least developed countries. as fewer resources are available, more people are affected by poverty. thus, we are faced with a lack of respect for fundamental human rights, such as the right to food, water, education, adequate housing, land, decent work, health or social security, which leads to an increase in inequalities between citizens in developing and less developed countries. i believe that the eu must continue its engagement with third countries, promoting the economic, social and cultural rights of citizens and stepping up efforts to ensure universal and non-discriminatory access to basic services. i also stress that the governments of third countries must develop youth employment policies that focus not only on job creation but also on ensuring a level of income and working conditions appropriate to a decent standard of living.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the economic and financial crisis has had a major impact on the respect for human rights worldwide. although the european union is a leader in respecting and promoting human rights, its efforts are not enough. among the most vulnerable are women, children, people with disabilities and ethnic minorities. in developing partnerships with third countries, the european union must start from the principle of respect for human rights. thus, all states wishing to enjoy the benefits of a partnership with the european union must first respect human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. the costs of the economic crisis are being borne disproportionately by the poor countries, despite having originated in the richer countries. therefore, the eu and the member states need to maintain and implement their oda commitments and the targets identified in the un millennium declaration. i condemn the brutal repression of social protests in many countries, especially in north africa and the middle east, and the increasing number of breaches of human rights and call on the governments to enforce a climate supporting the rule of law and the human rights. furthermore, i ask the commission to support the joint initiatives launched by the un to strengthen social protection systems in developing countries through a global fund for social protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the impact of the economic and financial crisis on human rights. the financial crisis has spread worldwide through various transmission channels, interacting with other crises (such as the food crisis and the fuel crisis). as a result of the crisis, the world bank and the un estimate that between 55 and 103 million people are living in poverty, thus jeopardising progress on human rights. global unemployment reached 200 million in 2012 an increase of 27 million since the start of the crisis in 2008. globally, 74.8 million young people aged 15-24 were unemployed in 2011, an increase of more than 4 million since 2007, with an exceptionally high level of unemployment in the middle east and north africa. parliament encouraged developing countries to use the trade preferences offered by the eu under the generalised system of preferences (gsp) to boost their economies, diversify their exports and improve their competitiveness. it is important that the eu supports and adopts the international goal of universal access to energy by 2030 as this will contribute to increasing economic power and social benefits for the poorest and most vulnerable people in developing countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because annual statistical data on demography are fundamental for the study and definition of a wide range of policies, particularly those relating to social and economic issues, at national and regional level. demographic issues are multiplying and playing an increasingly important role in the development of the european union. however, it seems to me that distortions can be created at the level of the calculation, especially in the case of countries with significant numbers of nationals leaving their borders, which can have a significant impact on the level of representation in the european union. i also believe that the data obtained should be used to create indicators of various kinds.
in writing. these demographic statistics are used by the european commission for the calculation of the allocation of the structural funds and by the council for weighting qualified majority voting. some delegations wished to change the definitions of what is meant by 'habitual residence of the european citizen' so that their national population data would be artificially inflated by taking into account the many emigrants who left their country of origin for economic reasons. the emigration of workers is a phenomenon that has been amplified by the crisis and affects many countries, not just eastern europe. denying this and trying to divert it for political strategies within the council is unacceptable. the european parliament will be able to play its full role as co-legislator and to enter into negotiations with the council in order to find a balanced and reliable method of calculation for the european population census and to weight national political influences within the decision-making body in the way most suited to the reality of cyclical migration.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european demographic statistics has important consequences for the democratic process within the european union. i supported amendment no 24 with 40 other members of the european parliament, which amends article 4 by proposing that the european commission should provide data on the population of the member states where they are legally or lawfully resident at the reference time for the purpose of qualified majority voting in the council. the european commission's proposal aims to introduce a method of determining the number of inhabitants of a member state on the basis of the 'usual residence' term, which will influence the member states' share in the council. in this context of economic and financial crisis, member states whose nationals are integrated into the labour markets of other member states by residing in their territory will be at a disadvantage in the decision-making process in the council. moreover, population data provided by member states, collected on the basis of obscure procedures (it is sufficient to declare, after 3 months of residence, the intention to stay in the territory of another member state in order to be considered 'normally resident') will influence the importance of the vote in the council, also contradicting the principle of free movement of persons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 26, which sought to remove article 4, an unacceptable article because the procedure proposed for determining the number of inhabitants of the member states is at least unusual and leaves room for many interpretations. as this amendment was rejected by the full house, i voted against the report in the final vote.
in writing. - i voted for amendments nos 24 and 26, which seek to delete article 4, which provides for a change in the existing method of calculating majorities in the council, in accordance with article 2 (c). i also voted for amendment no 25, which deletes the first recital, which refers to the change in the qualified majority in the council as from 1 november 2014. i believe that majorities in the council are clearly defined by the treaties of the european union and the regulation on european demographic statistics should not change these provisions. the provisions proposed by article 4 and recital 1 of this regulation will have a negative impact on member states affected by the crisis and on their nationals residing in another member state. i think that is not fair, because these citizens are often only entitled to vote in local elections in the member states of residence, and not in general, presidential or european elections in those states. thus, as long as these citizens cannot express themselves by voting on the policy of the member state of residence, the only state that can represent their interests at european level, within the council, is the member state of origin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the dismantling of ships outside the oecd has a significant impact on the environment and health. any ship taken out of the european union for dismantling is a hazardous waste and therefore cannot be legally dismantled at present except within the oecd. most final owners try to maximise their profits by selling their vessel to facilities that do not meet the standards of protection of workers and the environment, and thus can offer the highest price. a european list of recycling facilities located anywhere in the world should be drawn up, provided that they comply with certain standards. an appropriate inventory for the proper recycling of ships must also be carried out.
in writing. − every year, around 1 000 end-of-life ships are broken and recycled using the ‘beaching’ dismantling methodology, most of them in south asia under dangerous conditions and with little or no standards for the protection of workers, human health or the environment. i reiterate parliament’s opinion, as explicitly stated in its resolution of 26 march 2009, to prohibit the ‘beaching’ method for end-of-life ships and adopt it as the basic for this regulation. i urge a clear stance on this concern by fully implementing the export ban of hazardous waste also for waste ships, an inventory of hazardous materials for all ships calling at eu ports and the creation of a financial mechanism to support environmentally sound ship recycling.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on ship recycling. the purpose of this regulation is to prevent, minimise and, as far as possible, eliminate accidents, injuries and other adverse effects on human health and the environment caused by the recycling and treatment of eu ships. this regulation also aims to reduce disparities between operators in the union, oecd countries and third countries concerned as regards occupational health and safety and environmental standards. i voted for the creation of a financial mechanism (recycling fund) applicable to all ships entering eu ports, regardless of their flag, to ensure that the environmentally friendly treatment of ships containing hazardous waste is competitive with substandard operations. i also voted for amendment no 114, which calls for member states to encourage shipbuilders, together with shipbuilders and manufacturers of materials and equipment, to limit the use of hazardous materials on ships and to reduce them as far as possible from the design stage. this can prevent the release of hazardous substances into the environment, facilitate ship recycling and avoid the disposal of hazardous waste.
mr president, i very much welcome croatia into the european union and i voted in favour of this resolution. however, i would like to say that accession is a political decision and one could not expect that a country would have completed, irreversibly, the reforms necessary to become a real democracy within 20 or 23 years. considering that it is a political decision, we take in croatia as we did other countries during previous enlargements. however, we know that there are still areas in which work has to be done in order to ensure the irreversibility of reforms. one of these areas for croatia is justice and home affairs. i refer to the conflict of interest centre which is not yet operational, to the lack of a track record in the area of corruption, to convictions and so on. therefore i believe that it would be useful for the croatian people and for the croatian government to have a monitoring mechanism after accession in order to continue the reforms.
i voted in favour of the report because croatia will become the 28th member state of the european union on 1 july. the country has completed its accession negotiations. however, as in many other western balkan states, some problems with the rule of law and the fight against corruption persist. the authorities in zagreb will have to pay particular attention to the finalisation and implementation of the strategy for judicial reform. also, to increase citizens' trust in government institutions, judicial procedures need to be as transparent as possible and to result in impartial sentences, including in cases of high corruption. last but not least, i would like to stress the importance of croatia's cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, as well as with the other states in the region.
in writing. − i support the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the 2012 comprehensive monitoring report on croatia and welcome the significant progress made by the future member state in respecting the commitments made in the accession negotiations. the croatian authorities need to continue to make progress in improving ongoing reforms, such as the judicial system. they must also ensure respect for fundamental rights. i believe that they need to pay particular attention to combating all forms of discrimination and acts of intolerance against national minorities, the roma community, migrants or other minority and vulnerable groups.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the full monitoring report for croatia for 2012, confident that the accession of this country to the european union in july 2013 is a clear signal that the union has a future. the enlargement of the european union in this period of deep crisis only strengthens the belief in the european union's capacity to become once again a place of economic growth and social solidarity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2012 comprehensive monitoring report on croatia, as croatia will join the european union on 1 july 2013. we encourage croatia to undertake further structural reforms to stimulate economic growth and reinvigorate the labour market. croatia should continue to maintain the stability of its banking sector and pursue fiscal consolidation policy to boost competitiveness. we support croatia's efforts to ensure timely and effective use of eu funds to improve transport infrastructure and its linkage with that of the member states and other countries in the region. we believe that special emphasis should be placed on the social and environmental dimensions of economic modernisation and we encourage croatia to continue to strengthen social dialogue and to defend social and trade union rights. we stress the importance of member states not restricting the fundamental rights of eu citizens beyond what is strictly necessary, while respecting the transitional measures provided for in article 18 of the treaty of accession. it is recalled that restrictions on access to labour markets during transition periods following previous waves of enlargement have proved to be detrimental to the welfare of those member states which adopted the restrictions.
mr president, progress has been made by turkey. however, i would like to refer to those areas in which more progress is needed. turkey has to continue to implement fully greco recommendations on anti-corruption, as well as the national anti-corruption strategy. if things only remain on paper and are not transposed into practice and reality, then they are useless. additionally, important issues remain relating to state aid and to the limitations on parliamentary immunity. i would like to encourage further reforms that respect unprejudiced access to justice, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of expression. in these areas there are still problems and limitations which lag far behind the standards we have in the european union.
i voted in favour of the report because i support turkey's efforts to join the european union. unfortunately, the negotiations are currently at an impasse. i believe that a strong partnership between the european union and turkey would bring important benefits to both sides, and the benefits of granting eu membership to turkey would far outweigh the costs of such a move. i therefore believe that the dialogue with turkey must move forward by opening new chapters in the negotiations. in the context of the european union's efforts to achieve energy independence, turkey can play a pivotal role through its strategic position. the agreement with azerbaijan on the construction of the tanap pipeline is the first step towards the realisation of a major alternative gas supply route to europe. romania has consistently promoted such initiatives by involving itself in projects such as nabucco or agri.
in writing. − this report supports the commission's agenda for relations with turkey (to improve dialogue and exploit political and economic links). the report also welcomes the peace negotiations between the government and pkk leader abdullah öcalan. the new constitution should lead to the consolidation of democracy and reflect the pluralism and diversity of turkish society. turkey should continue to cooperate with the venice commission. i supported this report, but i must stress that progress is needed in many areas, such as: the independence of the judiciary, the protection of personal data, labour rights and trade union rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress made by turkey, as turkey is committed to reforms, maintaining good neighbourly relations and gradually aligning with the eu acquis. the eu and turkey are economically interdependent, with trade between the two partners amounting to eur 120 billion in 2011. we welcome the decision to step up eu-turkey cooperation on a whole range of important energy issues. in view of turkey's strategic role and its considerable renewable resources, a first process of analysis on the importance of opening negotiations under chapter 15 on energy should be launched with a view to deepening the eu-turkey strategic energy dialogue. we stress the need to step up strategic cooperation on energy corridors to the eu. both enhanced eu-turkey cooperation in the field of energy and possible chapter 15 negotiations should encourage the development of the potential of renewable energy and cross-border electricity transmission infrastructure. turkey is also an important partner in the black sea region, of strategic importance to the eu. in this regard, we encourage turkey to continue to support eu policies and programmes in the region and to contribute actively to their implementation.
mr president, progress has been made by montenegro in some areas in the judicial field, for instance the publication of court rulings, the new judicial council and the new prosecutorial council. however, creating institutions is a long way from having good practice in place. i would also say that montenegro has advanced in adopting key legislation in the areas of conflict of interest, public procurement, financing of political parties and the full entry into force of the criminal procedural code. these are good and positive aspects. however, on the negative side, the number of corruption cases remains low and there has been no order of seizure and confiscation of assets for corruption offences. overall, we need to encourage montenegro to continue with the important and vital reforms and to ask for political support, otherwise those reforms cannot be translated into practice.
i voted in favour of the report because montenegro has made progress in its dialogue with the european union. the pace of structural reforms is sustained, despite the difficulties imposed by the economic crisis, and montenegro could become the next member of the european union following croatia's accession. like the other western balkan states, montenegro will have to adopt measures to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. i also believe that policies for ethnic minorities, such as the roma, need to be implemented much more effectively. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the importance of freedom of the media, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. by meeting these criteria, montenegro will make rapid progress on its path to the european union and will soon be able to enjoy all the benefits of membership.
in writing. − montenegro is one of the western balkan states which, through its reforms, has shown its desire to be part of the european family of states that respect the rule of law, which led to the council's decision to open accession negotiations on 29 june 2012. i welcome this decision and encourage both decision-makers and civil society to make a concerted effort to make progress in all areas where gaps remain. one of the essential factors in the transition to a truly democratic society is the eradication of corruption, and i encourage the government, which has so far shown a willingness to cooperate with international organisations and take action on this subject, to make every effort to combat this phenomenon which still persists at all levels of society. i also believe that the authorities must urgently address the lack of alternatives to detention for children who break the law, because of the consequences that this punitive measure has on the child's development. we must not forget that detention has a stigmatizing effect on children, alienating them from their families and communities and restricting their opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress of montenegro, as this country has made significant progress on the road to eu accession. we welcome the council's decision to open accession negotiations with montenegro on 29 june 2012. this decision is a major step in the country's accession process and a clear reaffirmation of the eu's commitment to the european future of the western balkan countries. montenegro is the first country for which the eu is applying a new approach to the negotiations, with a stronger focus on issues of democratic governance, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, the judiciary, and the fight against corruption and organised crime. we draw attention to the fact that in the accession process there are still some shortcomings that need to be addressed, in particular the fight against organised crime and high-level corruption. we welcome the progress made in protecting and integrating all minorities and persons with disabilities. we call on the authorities to take further measures to combat discrimination and raise public awareness about improving the living conditions of minorities, their access to social security, health, education, housing and employment services and guaranteeing their adequate participation in public services.
mr president, i also voted for this report on serbia and i would like to welcome the new legislation which entered into force with reference to the new civil procedure code and the new criminal procedure code. however, there are still things which need to be done and which are on the negative side. i refer to the decision of the constitutional court to basically overturn the re-appointment process of judges and prosecutors which took place in 2009 and 2010 based on concrete criteria in order to ensure a professional and efficient judiciary. now this process has been overturned. also in serbia the national anti-corruption strategy and the corresponding action plan were not finalised. so again we need proof, and the real proof and the main proof is the track record of cases and of convictions for corruption, money-laundering, fraud and so on, including with politicians as defendants. this is the only proof that the fight against political corruption is working.
in serbia, the protection of ethnic minorities raises very serious issues. in the timoc valley, the romanian minority faces difficulties in being recognized as fundamental rights. i would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a tendency to create an artificial linguistic identity, the so-called vlach language, and, in the meantime, the serbian authorities are doing everything possible to put various obstacles in the way of those who have enrolled their children in school, in romanian language classes. romanians in serbia must have access to public radio and television stations, just as serbs in romania have access and funding. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the romanian orthodox church is not recognized as the traditional church in serbia and its jurisdiction is limited to the serbian banat. thus, ethnic romanians do not have access to religious services in their mother tongue.
in writing. − as in the previous debates on serbia's accession, i have only one comment, related to the application of the protocol of march 2012 between romania and the republic of serbia on national minorities. one year after the signing of the protocol, the only concrete result so far is in the media sector: a romanian-language tv programme, extended last month from 10 to 45 minutes, broadcast by tv bor, with a relatively limited transmission area. i recall that the protection of the rights of national minorities is an important part of the copenhagen criteria for eu accession, the commitment to the copenhagen criteria being undertaken by serbia in the bilateral protocol of march 2012. i hope that in the coming months progress will also be made in the introduction of the romanian language and culture course in the school curriculum, the expansion of the reception area for local broadcasts dedicated to the romanians in the region, and the exercise of religious freedom.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress made by serbia. the european council of march 2012 granted serbia eu candidate status, reconfirming its clear european perspective in line with the eu's commitments to the entire western balkans region. serbia has the potential to play an important role in ensuring security and stability in the region and must maintain and promote a constructive approach to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, key elements of the european integration process. we also appreciate serbia's active involvement in the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region. we welcome the council's request to the commission to submit a report as soon as serbia has reached the necessary degree of fulfilment of the accession criteria and priority objectives with a view to opening accession negotiations. we consider the opening of eu accession negotiations in june 2013 to be an achievable objective and urge serbia to continue the democratic, systemic and socioeconomic reforms that will enable it to assume and effectively implement the obligations of membership. i voted for recital 10, which stresses that the serbian authorities must continue to act to ensure the protection of all minorities and their inclusion in society as a whole. i stress the importance of achieving this objective for the protection of the romanian minority in serbia.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, but would like to express some concerns regarding the lack of significant progress in fighting corruption in kosovo. i would also like to urge kosovo to end the common practice of granting pardons to large numbers of convicted criminals. i would also like to refer to the positive aspects of having adopted the law on anti-discrimination, gender equality, and the law on youth and young people. but once again, there is a difference between what is on paper and what exists in reality. therefore, i urge them to enforce this legislation properly and without discrimination. the kosovan authorities should take strong steps to reach out to the serbian minority and to ensure their integration and to respect their rights, including their rights to serve as officials and to occupy public positions.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on the resolution on the process of european integration of the kosovo region. under international law, recognition of kosovo's independence is not mandatory but is left to the discretion of each state. this is also the current position of romania.
in writing. - on the resolution on the process of integration of kosovo, i voted against this document in the final vote. as amendment no 1 which i voted for shows, in accordance with international law and custom, recognition is an optional political act, with no obligation to do so. the position of the member states on the kosovo issue must be respected, regardless of how the various states have decided to approach the issue or the reasons that led them to decide so. as regards paragraph 3 of the original text, i would point out that i voted against and that i made a statement to that effect to the secretariat of the sitting.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european integration of kosovo, as good neighbourly relations are essential for security and stability in the region. i voted for amendment no 1, tabled with 40 other meps, because, under international law and custom, recognition is an optional political act, with no obligation to do so. we stress that the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement is an important step towards future integration into european structures and, ultimately, towards accession to the union. such an agreement will create new opportunities that will strengthen cooperation with neighbours and regional integration of kosovo. we encourage the kosovo authorities to step up their efforts to tackle the high unemployment and poverty in the country through further economic reforms and improving the investment climate. we urge the kosovo authorities to step up their engagement and demonstrate political will to strengthen the rule of law, in particular by providing evidence on the fight against organised crime and corruption.
i voted in favour of the resolution because, in the current economic situation, it is very important that the macroeconomic surveillance framework should be in place and functioning as soon as possible. i would remind you that no in-depth analyses were proposed for four countries, including romania. these countries benefit from a financial assistance programme from the european union and the imf and are therefore already subject to enhanced economic surveillance. the indicators of the macroeconomic scoreboards should be based on independent, verifiable statistical data produced by the european statistical system and the european system of central banks, and the commission should submit suggestions to parliament subject to the addition of an indicator for the growth rate of debt in the financial sector. i note with deep regret the lack of equal treatment of fellow legislators in this process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it unacceptable that the european parliament has not been informed in order to update the scoreboard on macroeconomic imbalances. moreover, the latest analysis published by the commission does not take surplus as an indicator of macroeconomic instability and adopts the decline in the share of national income devoted to wages as a model, although it is a source of negative competition at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on completing the scoreboard of the macroeconomic imbalances procedure (emp). in december 2011, the so-called 'six-pack' of regulations came into force, including two regulations establishing the macroeconomic imbalances procedure (mip). the monitoring of imbalances in the mfi is part of the 'european semester', which is an integrated and proactive approach to macroeconomic surveillance. in accordance with the mff regulation, the commission should make suggestions to the council and the competent committees of the european parliament on the plans for setting and adjusting the indicators and thresholds (recital 12 of the mff regulation). the commission added an indicator for the growth rate of financial sector debt to the 2013 alert mechanism report without consulting the relevant committees of the european parliament. parliament stresses the need for the commission to respect parliament's role as co-legislator in multilateral surveillance, as provided for, inter alia, in articles 121 (6) and 136 tfeu. parliament and the council shall be on an equal footing in all union acts in this field. i also believe that new indicators on both economic growth and the social impact of austerity measures should be introduced.
the author. - i was the one who proposed this emergency because since november 2009, when the last resolution on human rights in vietnam was discussed in our parliament, the situation has not improved at all. on the contrary, i would say. the case of the three founders of the vietnamese club for free journalists, nguyen van hai, ta phong tan and pan thanh hai, illustrates this very well. after several years of house arrest, these three journalists were sentenced to 12, 10 and 3 years respectively. the legal basis for their trial was article 88 of the penal code, which criminalizes, quote, "propaganda against the socialist republic of vietnam". despite international protests, the fate of these journalists, members of the vietnamese club for free journalists, has not improved. moreover, 32 other bloggers are today being sentenced under the same article 88. i am concerned, on the other hand, about a discussion about a new decree on the management, provision and use of internet services. i believe that this decree should not lead to a restriction of freedom of the press. we therefore recommend in the resolution that the current draft be amended to respect the right to freedom of expression. i would also like the discussion on the revision of the constitution to address issues related to civil and political rights, religious freedoms, because, as we know, freedom of religion and belief is suppressed in vietnam - the catholic church, other religions such as the unified buddhist church of vietnam or protestant churches are subject to caution. i would like to conclude by expressing my regret that the communist members of this parliament did not sign the joint resolution. i think they could have crossed the ideological barrier.
question for the blue card. i have a question for mr poreba: does he agree with what one of our colleagues said earlier, that this is the first time we have heard this - that all communists in the east are bad and all communists in the west are good? that's what i heard. does his lordship agree with what one of our colleagues has claimed?
in writing. condemns the continued repressive measures taken by the kazakh government following the protests in janaozen in december 2011. without initiating a dialogue with the protesters and without taking measures to improve the situation of oil workers, president nazarbayev prefers to blame the dissidents and the press. today, kazakhstan has no respect for civil and political rights and political pluralism. famous opposition figures like vladimir kozlov and human rights defenders like vladimir kuramshin have been sentenced to prison for opposing abuses of power. the decision to close down over 40 media outlets and to ban the journalists from practicing their profession is extremely serious. these abusive measures are removing from the public space voices opposed to nazarbayev's increasingly authoritarian rule. i call on the european external action service to put these grave abuses on the agenda of the astana authorities and to provide the necessary assistance to the victims of nazarbayev's repression.
the author. - i am only here to say, on behalf of the ppe group, that i regret that today's debate was not postponed. we believe that the boston tragedy calls for a moment of reflection, and i would suggest that for the remainder of the time that has been allotted, we hold a moment of reflection for the victims of two days ago.
in writing. the european union has set itself the objective of increasing the share of energy from renewable sources in total european energy production, but this requires better implementation of cooperation mechanisms between member states to promote the use of energy from renewable sources and to address shortcomings in cross-border electricity trade. on the other hand, the persistence of regulated retail prices will allow consumers to decide on the choice of supplier, because in the end the biggest beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market are consumers. in addition, competition should also be extended to renewable energy sources, as this is the best incentive for innovation and cost reduction, thus preventing the spread of energy poverty, which is why member states should make greater use of cooperation mechanisms and also increase communication between them to build additional infrastructure where appropriate.
in writing. developing renewable energy infrastructure and attracting investment for sustainable energy production are major challenges that we need to address with smart solutions. the achievement of sustainable energy objectives requires the uniform application of internal energy market legislation to remove energy bottlenecks and extend interconnections. the eu has significant untapped renewable energy resources. they can contribute to increasing energy independence at local and regional level. local and isolated communities are the main beneficiaries of sustainable energy potential. i consider the development of mixed energy infrastructures to meet electricity and heat demands to be a priority. for example, in the western region of romania, where i come from, the exploitation of geothermal energy could supplement the energy needs of local communities. the attraction of smes in the field of renewable energy would help to create investment partnerships and would constitute a potential for job creation. the commission should take into account that global markets offer opportunities for the efficient exploitation of renewable energy resources. i would remind you that the possible restrictions imposed on technology producers in third countries will only endanger more than 240 000 jobs in the photovoltaic sector.
in writing. i would like to stress the need to strike a balance between european policies to promote renewable energy and the need to maintain the competitiveness of european union industries in particular the metal, chemical, heavy equipment and machinery industries. these energy-intensive industries are competing with industries in countries that do not place equal emphasis on climate action. the european union must maintain its leadership in promoting renewable energy, but also take account of the progress made by large energy-consuming countries such as russia, china and others and adjust its own policies accordingly.
i believe that a good report has been reached on the measures needed to strengthen the security of the exploration and exploitation of oil and natural gas deposits in the seas and oceans. romania, my country, like bulgaria, is currently developing both exploration and exploitation of oil and natural gas in the black sea and we are convinced of the need for these security measures. i would suggest, however, and i would propose to the european commission, that the same security measures be promoted in bilateral relations with non-eu countries in the black sea, and in particular with ukraine, because any disaster in the economically exploitable waters of ukraine would have extremely negative consequences for romania, because the exploration and exploitation bases are extremely close.
due to their geographical location, some countries are more exposed to the waves of refugees and asylum seekers that arise from crises, and in recent years there have been several such situations at the union's borders, ranging from the revolutions in north africa to the current crisis in syria. solidarity in this area is very important. an example is the libyan crisis, when romania hosted over 200 refugees in timisoara. i too believe that a legal instrument is needed to prevent only some member states from being confronted with a very large number of asylum seekers. i would therefore encourage the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal which also contains statistical indicators on the distribution of asylum seekers in the member states.
i would like to welcome the commission's initiative to launch a public debate on climate change in southern and eastern europe. the initiative is valuable and will provide important and useful information on how to accelerate the fight against these phenomena. i regret that romania, the country i represent, was not included in this public debate, given that it is extremely exposed to the consequences of climate change. extreme weather events such as drought have become more frequent in recent years, and almost 400 000 hectares of romania's land are affected by desertification, with serious consequences, especially for agricultural production. i hope that the results of the debate announced will be fruitful, so that the whole union can benefit from the lessons learned.
the way things have developed in recent years has shown that there are gaps in the constitution of romania, but also very good provisions, which have been interpreted differently. this shows the need for a constitution which should regulate as much as possible the relations between the institutions. the revision of the constitution cannot and should not be a revision of a truly impressive majority. for this reason, the romanian government has asked the venice commission, as it did in the 2003 revision, for a point of view, an analysis based on the text that will be drawn up by the constitutional commission, because a prestigious international arbiter and very difficult to challenge will ensure that all the elements subject to revision fall within european standards and that what we will revise in the constitution does not represent in any way an abuse of a majority against a minority or any attempt to personalize the constitution. we're talking about a constitution for the future, not one for today or yesterday.
in 2010, i was one of the authors of the resolution calling for the banning of cyanide in mining, which was overwhelmingly passed in the european parliament. we have insisted in other written statements, requests or letters on the same subject, but the commission has stated that it does not intend to act on this proposal. the issue continues to be a concern for a large number of european citizens, and romanians in particular. the commission is currently working on revising part of the legislation concerning both the environmental impact of industrial projects and dangerous substances. i would like to reiterate my appeal to the european commission on this very relevant subject. given the risks associated with the use of cyanide-based technologies in mining, does the commission intend to re-examine the request to ban them as part of the ongoing legislative changes?
multilingualism is one of the union's most precious assets, reflecting its cultural and linguistic diversity. we use 23 official languages today. the crisis has led to austerity measures in the european institutions. i agree with the cost reduction, but we need to be responsible about the areas where we're saving. there are constant attempts in parliament to eliminate the less used languages in favour of the three primary languages. now the committee of the regions has been asked to abolish the independent translation apparatus. this is a bad decision. our institutions are losing their democratic character, we are losing out on integration. the union is made up of citizens from the 27 member states, soon to be 28, who speak 23 and 24 official languages. no european language should be above the other! yes, i agree with the savings. but costs must be reduced without compromising democracy and integration.
recent studies have found a lack of statistical information on gender equality, violence against women and violations of women's rights in the balkan candidate countries. but all this data is absolutely necessary to be able to fight and improve the position of women exposed to multiple discrimination. the european commission must monitor the situation of women's rights and their implementation and report in detail on the improvement of their social and economic situation, the strengthening of their presence on the labour market, the guarantee of equal representation of women in decision-making, political and economic processes, as well as the encouragement of women's entrepreneurship, which is an essential element for strengthening and consolidating democracy in the baltic candidate countries.
the principle of equality in the candidate countries is not yet fully compatible with their domestic legislation and therefore in practice these rights remain a necessity. the participation of women in the political life of these countries is fundamental to stabilising and resolving conflicts and will, of course, accelerate accession to the european union. it is unacceptable that, to date, particularly in rural areas, some women are still subject to discrimination on religious or ethnic grounds. lack of legal instruments against domestic violence, lack of funding for contraception, are some examples that are holding back the implementation of fundamental rights in these countries. i recommend to the balkan countries effective benchmarking and legislative reform with the main objective of implementing the european union's values on equal opportunities.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i welcome ms cornelissen’s report on women’s rights in the balkan accession countries. i am glad to note that the report takes into account the views of a wide range of stakeholders, including civil society organisations, parliamentarians and government representatives across the region, and it identifies issues which the commission also considers important in assessing the progress made on gender equality in the western balkans. as the report mentions, the implementation and enforcement of legislation in this area is key, and therefore the commission not only helps with transposition of the acquis in the field of gender equality in the candidate countries and potential candidate countries but also provides financial support and monitors the implementation and effective enforcement of national legislation through the various instruments of the pre-accession strategies. as you well know, full transposition and enforcement of all european union directives in the field of gender equality is a strict condition for membership of the union. it is also vital to develop institutional and administrative structures that facilitate the implementation and enforcement of equality rights. in this context, the commission has encouraged a stronger focus on gender equality and women’s rights in the western balkans. for example, we provide assistance for the training of judges in this area and we cooperate with non-governmental organisations dealing with gender equality. european instruments for democracy and human rights can grant direct funding to women’s rights organisations, which have benefitted immensely from this mechanism. women’s rights initiatives have also been strengthened through the european union’s technical assistance for civil society organisations project. back in our 2011 enlargement strategy, we proposed an innovative approach to trigger domestic change in the field of justice and fundamental rights. the strategy presented stronger mechanisms while transforming chapter 24, on justice, freedom and security, and chapter 23, on judiciary and fundamental rights, into powerful incentives for reform. chapter 23 is among the first chapters to be opened and the last to be closed once a solid track record of reform implementation has been achieved. let me conclude by noting with satisfaction that croatia, as a future member state, has completed legal alignment in the field of gender equality, and i warmly welcome your suggestion that the gender equality ombudsperson in croatia could serve as an example for the whole region. this is another example of the transformative power of the enlargement process.
in writing. to join the eu, the western balkan countries need to adopt the eu acquis on gender equality. i would like to express my concern that 30% of the victims of crossborder trafficking in human beings in the european union are citizens of the balkan countries, with the majority of the victims being women and girls. in this regard, these countries should support awareness-raising campaigns, as well as concrete measures to combat corruption and organised crime to prevent trafficking. but i also believe that some progress has been made on gender equality and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the crossborder initiatives in this area in recent years. i believe that this kind of action should be supported more consistently by national governments and the european commission.
rapporteur. − mr president, we keep saying that media freedom is a fundamental right at the very foundations of the european union, and that is true. but are we pleased at how the media and media freedom look these days across the eu? there are some reasons to feel pleased, but there are also other strong reasons why we should worry a great deal. in this house we have had several debates on the status and role of the media in various member states. i would like to thank commissioner kroes for her constant support for media freedom and pluralism. i wish i could say the same for the commission in general, but the truth is that the reason this report exists is precisely because this parliament would have liked to see a stronger reaction from the commission, and especially from the commissioner for fundamental rights, each and every time media freedom has been under threat in any of the member states. article 2 of the treaty and article 11 of the eu charter on fundamental rights need to be fiercely protected by the commission as the guardian of the treaty. this has not happened so far. i therefore hope that the guidelines and recommendations of this report will, from now on, be taken into consideration by the commission and by the member states, since they represent not only our view as elected representatives of eu citizens but also the result of hundreds of hours of consultations with media organisations, union representatives and regulatory bodies. basic standards such as journalistic and editorial independence should not be missing from any newsroom. member states in the eu should support and promote investigative journalism and ethical journalism. it is of great concern that journalists are more and more frequently the victims of pressure, harassment and even violence. we call on each member state to ensure that journalists can report freely and safely. an attack against a journalist should be considered an attack against media freedom and against citizens’ rights to be informed. it should therefore be investigated and penalised immediately. it is of great importance that in each member state there is transparent and stable legislation which protects journalists in their mission as the watchdog of society. we should avoid a situation such as the one in my own country, romania, where, after seven years during which defamation and slander were no longer penalised by the penal code, following a very recent decision of the constitutional court there is now widespread confusion about their recriminalisation. in fact the report we will be voting on tomorrow calls on those member states in which defamation is still a criminal offence to decriminalise it as soon as possible. we need transparency of media ownership, we need to prevent excessive media concentration and we need rules to address the conflicts of interest resulting from the amalgamation of political office and control over media outlets. we need the independence of media supervisory bodies. we need journalists, not so that they will write nice things about us but to keep all of us informed and to keep us – the politicians – in check. we have to make sure that they can do their job. that is the very bottom line of this report.
i very much appreciate mrs weber's report and congratulate her on her work. in recent years, the problems faced by the media have been almost identical in all member states. the adoption of this report on standard rules for media freedoms in the european union will therefore be an incentive for the european commission to become more courageous in regulating this area in the future. i have two comments on the subject in general: the first concerns the commercial media, where i believe we need transparent information on the identity of the recipients of these media, which would be to the benefit of the citizens, who could find out much more information and analyse in more detail what is being offered to them, and the second concerns the establishment of a verification mechanism by which the european commission can ensure that the member states guarantee the effective application in their territory of the charter of fundamental rights, which implies media pluralism, equal access to information and respect for the independence of the press.
all european countries that have joined or wish to join the european union must comply with the copenhagen criteria, which include the charter of fundamental rights. article 11 provides for respect for the freedom and pluralism of the media. as such, public media services, financed from the state budget, are essential. they have an institutional duty to provide the public with high-quality, accurate and reliable information, and they must be independent of external pressures and private or political interests. on the other hand, private media have similar information duties. i therefore support the need for a genuinely balanced european dual system, in which the public and private media respect their respective roles, the professional independence of national news agencies is guaranteed and the creation of news monopolies is avoided. last but not least, i want to congratulate mrs weber on this report.
in writing. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union recognises, in article 11, freedom of information and expression as a fundamental right and, at the same time, guarantees that media freedom and pluralism must be respected. it is thus recognised that the media play a key role in promoting and maintaining democracy, ensuring that citizens have access to a variety of information to form informed opinions on events in the public sphere. however, journalists and the media in general face difficulties in carrying out their work in many eu countries, often under pressures that affect their independence. at the same time, the media sector is also affected by structural problems such as concentration trends that lead to abuses of dominant positions and affect the principle of pluralism. it is therefore very important that national and european institutions protect media freedom through measures that guarantee the independence of journalists from pressures from owners of media companies and from political courts. i also believe it is essential that member states adopt legislation to prevent infiltration of newsrooms by intelligence agents, as such activities undermine the credibility of the press.
the audiovisual media services directive is the main piece of regulation in this area in the european union. i would have liked, however, that the current public consultation on a possible revision of the directive had been wider. we cannot simply guarantee the independence of national regulators. account should also be taken of the extension of the provisions of article 9 (2) by encouraging media organisations to develop codes of conduct in areas other than commercial communication. the recommendations of the high level group on media freedom and pluralism should also be taken into account. one of them would be the establishment of an independent monitoring centre at european level to monitor developments in the media in the member states and make any recommendations.
in the context of technological developments, regulating the media has become a priority, both from the perspective of freedom of expression and access to information, and from a commercial point of view. the development of the internet means that an increasing number of citizens have access to traditional or on-demand audiovisual services. at the same time, markets and consumer behaviour are changing rapidly. the commission's analysis of the application of the audiovisual media services directive thus becomes a useful tool in planning the adjustment of the regulatory framework in this field. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of minors against commercial communications which encourage unhealthy behaviour, particularly in the food sector. i also welcome the fact that all member states have complied with the provision to provide at least 10% of independent european works, but draw attention to the limited objective of this process. i also point out the importance of providing media services to people with visual or hearing impairments. thank you, congratulations to the reporter.
in writing. i am pleased that this report addresses the issue of accessibility of media services for people with disabilities. it is imperative that we take steps to increase equality of opportunity for people with disabilities and to really give them their right, namely access to adequate means of communication, access to information, thus ensuring a step forward for their integration into society. there is a need for cooperation between broadcasting companies in developing technologies that take into account the needs of visually and/or hearing impaired persons, persons with disabilities and the elderly. junk food and alcohol continue to have a negative impact on children and in this respect i welcome the emphasis in this report on the protection of minors. i acknowledge that significant progress has been made in the control of inappropriate audiovisual commercial communications to children, but it is not sufficient, especially due to changes in communication technology. the perception of what is normal and good in society is very important for young people and in this respect i support the report's request to the commission to submit proposals on the issue of media education.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thanks to the honourable member, mr geier. this report does indeed contain many interesting aspects and is very timely indeed. it is particularly important at this time of economic crisis to draw attention to the continuing economic transformation struggle of declining industrial regions. also at this time of crisis, cohesion policy funding is a major instrument to implement effective industrial policies and to support, in particular, small and medium sized enterprises. investment into businesses by the erdf in the current funding period 2007-2013 is eur 54.2 billion overall across the eu-27. the large majority of those investments support innovation and we believe that much of what is pointed out in this report is already being addressed by the better alignment of cohesion policy with the europe 2020 goals and the synergies which we hope to achieve through smart specialisation. this involves effort and increased cooperation at all levels: at european level, at member state level, and at regional level. it is about true multi-level governance and an alignment of strategic visions and road maps and better synergies between policy areas. the concept of smart specialisation, which mr geier mentions positively in his report, calls for tailor-made innovation strategies at regional level which are based on careful analyses of regional assets and development potential, and on comprehensive stakeholder involvement. indeed we believe that smart specialisation can do at least three things to help old industrial regions in supporting economic transformation,number one, help them to develop an excellence-driven vision of regional development and structural change, and to re-focus their industrial and knowledge assets in the direction of emerging industries and services and international markets. in that sense smart specialisation can be seen as a specific-based approach to industrial policy. number two, strengthen cooperation and knowledge transfer between the key players in the regional innovation system – governments, industry and science – with the benefit of offering much more integrated approaches to knowledge-based regional development. public-private partnerships need to implement those approaches. number three, increase multi-level and horizontal policy coordination, bringing together a range of complementary policies such as research and technology policies, industrial policy, regional and rural development policies, labour market policy, etc., and mobilising actors and resources in the region around shared visions and common goals. these are just three of the reasons why we have made smart specialisation, which is one of the pillar concepts of the innovation union initiative, one of the conditionalities for erdf spending in our proposals for the future structural funds. to sum up, smart specialisation should become a key instrument for incentivising policy integration and the boost towards economic change and industrial renewal that you ask for in this report. we have already started negotiations with the member states and their regions on the partnership agreements and programmes for 2014 to 2020, and we see that there is a lot of serious effort going into focusing the future national and regional funding priorities on those transformation strategies.
in writing. industrial area strategies in the european union are an important topic for many regions and for many eu citizens. i would stress the importance of the references in this motion for a resolution to the need for a region-wide perspective when addressing problems relating to industry in general or to a particular branch of industry. in this context, it is worth noting, first of all, the need for synchronised development of the industrial sector with the education sector, in order to ensure complementarity. secondly, industrial zone strategies must be complementary to rural development strategies in the region, which is important for food and housing reasons and for coordination with measures to diversify economic activities in rural areas. small rural enterprises can function not only as suppliers of food and services to industrial areas, but also as suppliers of raw materials or sub-components to developed industries. it is therefore essential that industrial area strategies take into account the region as a whole, including nearby rural localities.
in this parliament, over the last two or three years, i have said on several occasions that the existence of tax havens which do not want to conclude transparency agreements, automatic exchange of information with the european union, is a disgrace to the citizens who pay their taxes in these member states of the european union. that is why i welcome the proposals made by the european commission, i welcome the progress made by commissioner šemeta in this area, and the proposals in the reports on preventing tax evasion through tax havens. but i do feel it is my duty to propose two new measures which will be more effective in achieving success in this fight against tax evasion through tax havens. firstly, to ban all transactions in the european union by companies registered in tax havens which do not want to conclude transparency and automatic exchange of information agreements with the european union - not only in public procurement, but also to ban all transactions in the european union. secondly, take the good proposal that has emerged in the uk that multinational companies should be obliged to declare publicly the profits they make in all the countries outside the european union where they have registered units.
the various methods of stimulating economic growth in the european union are useless unless there is close coordination at european and international level on tax havens. the attitude of many companies operating in europe is a total disrespect for national governments and taxpaying citizens and it is our duty to take immediate action. given that the losses generated by the transfer of profits outside the european union for tax avoidance amount to several billion euros per year, i believe that we must make every effort to identify these companies, find ways to stop these unethical practices and restrict their access to european funds and even to participate in public procurement procedures within the territory of the european union.
we are facing a tragicomic situation. on the one hand, parliament and the commission are fighting with the council for millions, tens of millions, hundreds of millions of euros for projects that are essential to european policies, and at the same time we accept that for years we have been seeing huge sums, a trillion a year, of tax evasion and fraud on a european union scale. at the same time, we tell the young people of the union that we have no money for the youth guarantee and then we give them like beads of glass, six billion, maybe three, for now, holy promises. i think it is time for the council to put an end to this game of, i would say, complicity in crime, fraud and evasion, and to take a firm decision, because it is not ethical standards that scare those who (the president withdraws the speaker).
in writing. in the eu, €1 trillion of public money is lost every year as a result of tax fraud and tax evasion. it generates an annual cost for the european citizen of about eur 2 000. this puts at risk the maintenance of the european social model, which is based on the provision of quality public services accessible to all citizens, and affects the efficiency and fairness of tax regimes within the union. tax evasion and avoidance are reducing the funds available to stimulate public investment, growth and employment. i believe that we need concrete measures at european level to prevent, identify and reduce tax fraud, just to avoid the loss of billions of euros of public money every year. member states should allocate the necessary resources to their national tax administrations and to the staff responsible for tax control. at european level, we need a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base and the development of new strategies to combat vat fraud, as well as a more rigorous fight against tax fraud through the judicial system under criminal law.
in writing. as the economic crisis has deepened social inequality in the european union, tackling tax fraud is becoming a moral and political obligation, not just a way to increase public resources. when citizens are suffering the effects of austerity, tackling tax havens and improving tax collection systems are essential measures, including for regaining the credibility of the european institutions. all the european union's deficits could be covered in nine years if tax evasion could be stopped. public losses from fraud have reached the staggering 1 000 billion euro per year, an additional cost of 2 000 euro for every european citizen. these tax-free funds have now exceeded the eu's health budget and are four times the size of the education budget of all 27 member states. to achieve the european commission's objective of halving tax losses by 2020, the action plan should aim at harmonising the disparities between member states' tax systems, regulating tax crimes in a uniform manner, combating customs fraud, narrowing down the definition of tax havens, improving vat collection, strengthening tax discipline and increasing transparency, including in the financial reporting of multinational companies.
in writing. tax fraud and evasion cost the member states' budgets an estimated €1 trillion a year, the equivalent of €2 000 a year for every european citizen. they are a heavy burden, especially in times of crisis, and lead to the erosion of the single market and taxpayers' confidence. in the context of the interdependence of european economies and common policies, these phenomena must be countered by concerted action. without these, tax competition is encouraged and national and community bodies lack the appropriate tools to combat tax fraud and evasion. i welcome the communication from the european executive in this field, which was released last december. but i think that more drastic measures are needed. these include introducing state-level tax reporting requirements for all companies and a blacklist of tax havens by the end of next year. the taxation of savings income directive must also be implemented as soon as possible to put an end to banking secrecy.
in writing. – i want to thank the council for touching on these issues, and parliament for proposing concrete actions against these huge problems which are causing significant losses. this is added to other major problems that we have in the european union. the sum that europe is losing every year is outrageous. we can see tax evasion on a significant scale. we need to have convincing answers to tackle this issue, and i think that the mojka kekus report takes an important first step. tax fraud is not only national; this is why we need a common platform to exchange information. in addition, according to the report, the commission has to study the possibility of introducing eu taxation on cross-border business models and electronic commerce. the report points out that the eu should take the leading role in discussions on the fight against tax fraud, tax avoidance and tax havens. i have to mention again on this occasion the importance of the financial transaction tax. we need to take the burden of the crisis off the shoulders of citizens. the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu level would ensure this and could bring eur 54 billion to the eu budget.
in writing. the european council of 22-23 may 2013 will focus on energy and taxation in the eu. as regards energy, i would stress that eu energy policy must ensure security of supply to households and businesses at affordable and competitive prices and protect vulnerable consumers in particular. in full respect of national choices on the energy mix, the eu needs to ensure the development of interconnections to end any form of member states' isolation from electricity and gas networks by 2014. i therefore believe that significant investment in new, smart energy infrastructure is needed in the eu to ensure affordable energy supply. i also believe that implementing the energy performance of buildings directive and promoting energy efficiency measures and programmes at all levels will help to increase the eu's energy security and lower the public's utility bills. as regards the fight against tax evasion, i believe that the exchange of information should be extended both at eu and global level, so that it allows for the automatic exchange of information to cover a whole range of income. strong measures are also needed, including in the digital economy, to combat tax fraud and in particular vat.
rapporteur. − mr president, the oral amendment only speaks about replacing the word ‘oblige’ with ‘invite’, so that member states, instead of ‘obliging’ the media sector, ‘invite’ the media sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the agreement respects the 2003 judgment of the court of justice based on the horizontal mandate given to the commission in relation to bilateral agreements concluded by member states in international aviation relations with third states. the existence of a 'designation clause' which allows third countries to reject, withdraw or suspend the authorisations of an air carrier designated by a member state but which is not majority owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals is considered to be a breach of european law. the introduction of the single designation clause allows union carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and non-discriminatory access to routes between the union and third countries. the 15 bilateral agreements concluded between sri lanka and the member states will therefore be replaced by a single european agreement. i consider this measure an important step in the coordination of aviation relations at european level.
in writing. − one of the reasons why i have chosen to support this report is that this agreement between eurocontrol and the eu will benefit our citizens first and foremost. regional airports and air services are essential for both ensuring mobility and developing the local economy and tourism in the member states. the agreement will confirm eurocontrol's role as the eu's technical and operational tool in the development and implementation of the 'single european sky' programme, while establishing the eu's role as the programme's regulatory authority. furthermore, i believe that we have set a clear direction in improving and strengthening cooperation with eurocontrol by virtue of its fundamental role in air traffic management. the vote is a clear signal of the progress made towards the implementation of the single european sky.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that strengthening and enhancing cooperation between the eu and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation is a step towards the single european sky. because it aims at meeting safety, capacity and efficiency needs, i believe citizens will benefit from this agreement. moreover, i consider that it is important that this agreement will allow the european organisation for the safety of air navigation, an intergovernmental organisation, to provide technical support and assistance in the implementation of the future european air traffic management system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the last report by the commission on the implementation of single sky legislation estimated the additional cost borne by airlines due to the fragmentation of european airspace at some eur 5 billion. there are also serious capacity problems and major delays for passengers. since the adoption of the ses legislative framework in 2004, eurocontrol has been assisting the european union with both the regulatory and the technology elements of the ses, having been designated as the performance review body of the ses (2010) and as the network manager for the atm network functions (2011). achieving full and timely compliance with the ses legislation requires significant work; for example, eurocontrol issued sixty more recommendations in the 2010 report. a general framework for enhanced cooperation is needed in order to implement the aims of the second reference period (2015 to 2019) of the ses performance scheme.
in writing. − i supported the recommendation and my decision was based on the conviction that making the union's historical archives available to the public is an act of transparency on the part of the institutions. moreover, this action will contribute positively to the democratization of the union. therefore, in view of the moral value of the european institute in florence as a repository of the history and heritage of the union, i support the decision to finance the costs of managing the archives through the union budget. the sensitive issue of personal data protection must be taken into account. if certain archival documents contain personal information, the institute must apply existing measures at european level.
in writing. - i too supported this report, firstly because i am convinced of the importance of next year's elections and secondly because the question of legitimacy, on the basis of which we, members of the european parliament, act, is becoming increasingly pressing. the idea of not synchronising the elections with such an important holiday in many member states is more than welcome, as we all want and encourage as many people as possible to vote. i also think it is beneficial that the new deadline for the european elections will allow for longer consultations on the choice of the next commission president.
in writing. − having regard to the european parliament resolution of 22 november 2012 by which the european legislative forum requested the council to consult parliament on the organisation of elections either between 15 and 18 may or between 22 and 25 may 2014, i consider it necessary to hold elections to the european parliament between 22 and 25 may 2014. the european parliament has 27 information offices in the capitals of the member states of the european union and they are the first points of contact between citizens and european legislation. the european parliament is the only institution directly elected by the citizens of the european union. its role is to raise awareness among citizens and encourage them to participate in the vote. the member states must therefore take the time to organise the elections and thus be able to mobilise as many citizens as possible to vote.
in writing. - i voted for this report because article 6 (1) teu, whereby the european union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter as having the same legal value and binding force as the treaties, is a good example of this. the czech republic's initial fears about the charter's impact on the principle of subsidiarity, the allocation of competences, respect for the national constitution and international agreements are unfounded. the czech republic is not exempted from the binding provisions of the charter. this is not an opt-out. the czech parliament ratified the treaty of lisbon exactly as it was signed, without any reservations as regards full compliance with the charter. we must take into account the two judgments of the czech constitutional court (2008 and 2009) which state that the lisbon treaty is fully in line with the czech constitution.
in writing. − the economic and financial context, which marked the european union in the years of deep crisis, has failed to provide a clear picture of the real impact of the directive on public procurement. however, they consider that the corporate control market has produced a number of effects which cannot be challenged by any court, both in terms of fair competition and in terms of supervision or the rights of employees in a takeover situation. as europe emerges from the negative influences of the economic and financial crisis, as takeover bids return to pre-2007 levels, the effects of this directive on takeovers will be felt among member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because this directive is an important step in strengthening company law at european level. i share the view that one of the main objectives of the directive is to ensure a fair environment for public procurement, which improves the proper functioning of the corporate control market. i welcome the efforts to enhance cooperation between national authorities in the context of public procurement through the public procurement network. the issue of the supervision of public tenders is a matter for the state. i would like to stress the situation of employees in the event of a takeover and the need to strengthen their rights in similar situations. in conclusion, i support the commission's proposal to carry out an evaluation of the application of the directive, given that the transposition period coincided with the onset of the financial crisis, causing distortions in the corporate control market.
in writing. − the current directive needs to be aligned with eu law to ensure that workers' rights are respected, and these must be respected throughout the takeover process. the workers' representatives concerned must therefore enjoy the widest possible rights of information and consultation, in particular during the takeover process, and have access to the most appropriate legal expertise. employee participation and employee equity play an important role in ensuring the full participation of workers and their adequate information throughout the takeover process. this information should be guaranteed to workers involved in the management of the company and to those who participate in the capital of the undertaking. it is important to ensure that all categories of employees, irrespective of their position, type of company or individual characteristics of each employee, benefit from transition assistance, in particular taking into account the special situation of vulnerable employees or those with irregular work arrangements, such as fixed-term or temporary employees. during the takeover process, the rights, obligations and working conditions under existing employment contracts must be maintained and the dismissal of employees as a result of the company's operations must be prohibited.
in writing. − the crisis facing europe is having a negative impact on the takeover process, with the main problem identified by the commission being the lack of funding. as such, the activities related to this process - mergers and acquisitions - are difficult to carry out, especially because of the reduction of lending by banks. i support the rapporteur's proposal that a broader assessment is needed on the basis of relevant data to determine not only the need to amend the directive but also to pinpoint the next steps on the road to harmonisation at eu level.
i voted for this report. cohesion policy and european financial support are absolutely necessary and decisive for the transformation of former industrial areas. today, they are areas where there are no jobs, where people live poorly, but they must become prosperous areas with jobs. corruption, inconsistent strategies, poor local or national governance are defining elements of the anachronistic system of the former mono-industrial regions. a relevant example is the old mining areas in romania, which are in a marked state of degradation. without real and long-term projects, they will continue to make the whole area vulnerable.
without industry, we would not play such an important role in the global balance of economic forces. unfortunately, in recent years, many of europe's traditional industrial regions have been facing massive deindustrialisation, leading to excessive unemployment and numerous demographic problems. to solve these problems and to avoid the emergence of new disadvantaged regions, i believe that measures to rebuild the industrial sector must be accompanied by efforts to create new jobs, focusing on the young workforce. to do this, we need to link community employment strategies with the future needs of european industry, develop regional programmes to provide young people with high-performing technological education and support the development of entrepreneurship among young people through access to european funds and business advice.
the european commission must do all it can to reverse the decline in industry in the european union and bring it down from the current level of 16% of gdp to 20% by 2020. of course, sustainable growth can only be achieved by paying due attention to environmental factors, which is why i believe that regional strategies in this area should include measures to protect soil, water, air and biodiversity as a central element. i encourage the member states and european regions to make effective use of the structural and investment funds at their disposal to help the industrial sector, which has been hit hard by the crisis, break out of the deadlock. i believe that young entrepreneurs can play a key role in the revitalization of europe's old industrial areas. it is therefore necessary to encourage them to do so by providing business advice from the competent authorities and by facilitating access to european funds.
european industry has been in decline for some time. whether it's declining competitiveness or higher labor costs, many firms have relocated their operations to other parts of the globe. this is also the case in romania, which unfortunately does not have a clear vision of the development of the industrial sector at this time. there is no coherent strategy and no political will on the part of the socialist government to strengthen the industrial sector. in addition, several steel and petrochemical plants have made or are about to make massive redundancies. although there is a solution to access the european globalisation adjustment fund, the government has not taken such measures so far. in the context of the regionalisation proposed by the usl, i believe that there should be a clear strategy for industrial development at national level and at the level of future administrative regions.
in writing. − economic growth and competitiveness of the eu member states can be achieved by exploiting synergies between cohesion and industrial policies, but i believe that additional support measures are needed to help old industrial regions, especially mono-industrial areas, to successfully discover new paths of development and economic conversion. on the other hand, there is a need to develop economic zones of regional interest, high-technology business parks, based on public-private partnerships but also on cross-border cooperation, which can encompass specific and traditional activities in the regions where they are located and can contribute to improving the use of local and regional human and economic resources using state-of-the-art technologies. to identify best practices that can be applied to other regions, to link them with long-term local and regional development strategies and to provide guidance on how to use funds in the conversion process, i support the idea of creating a database of existing industrial parks and regional business areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to develop regional strategies for industrial areas in the member states, because we are at a crossroads. europe's industrial sector has always been at the heart of economic growth and job creation, and despite a decline over the last 50 years, industry continues to account for 16% of eu gdp. unfortunately, old industrial sites are no longer attractive to private investors, but they have enormous potential for conversion. where sectoral policies are overwhelmed by the challenges of the economic and financial crisis, cohesion policy can step in and support structural change in the region. the report identifies the regions where the need for funding is most acute and sets out regional strategies, drawing on the various instruments of cohesion policy to address the economic, social and environmental challenges in the region.
in writing. − the european union has a considerable number of old industrialised areas with significant problems. the industrial sector has always been a vector for creating jobs. we need a new strategy in this respect, and we have to use all the tools we have at our disposal. the main challenges of the transformation processes, identified in the report are: regional funding which is most needed in old industrialised regions; there is a need for regional strategies as well, to undertake structural change; and we should not forget the utility of cohesion policy funds, which can be further used to support industrial regeneration. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution, but i would like to stress the need for a region-wide perspective in addressing the problems of industrial areas, especially in terms of complementarity with the education sector, with an impact on the level of training and availability of the workforce, and in terms of complementarity with the rural development strategies in the region. i believe that small enterprises set up as part of measures to diversify the rural economy can function not only as suppliers of food and services to industrial areas, but also as suppliers of raw materials or sub-components to industries in the area.
mr president, major accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations can have devastating and irreversible consequences. we must minimise the risk of these accidents and, in the event of an accident occurring in union waters, deploy an effective response in a timely manner. for the time being, there is no database at union level to collect and share data on accidents; there are different databases in the member states. as such, i welcome articles 22 and 23 regarding the sharing of information and transparency, and the data contained in annex 6 that foresees a common format for reporting this information.
given that most of europe's oil and gas production takes place offshore and the risk of accidents is quite high, standardisation of existing national laws and regulatory practices is strictly necessary. in addition, operators throughout the union are obliged to ensure the use of best methodologies for controlling major risks and to contribute to strengthening the capacity to prevent and respond to potential accidents. the european union now has the opportunity to take a leading role in the safety of oil and gas operations worldwide and thus must step up the international promotion of high safety standards, which will lead to environmental protection and to the reduction of economic losses and damage resulting from accidents.
both offshore and onshore extraction activities must comply with environmental standards. the natural gas reserves of the black sea and shale gas could provide energy independence for my country, but also lower costs for the population. recently, romania has been granted a permit to explore for shale gas on the black sea coast. it is worth noting that, after coming to power, both the left-wing coalition and the meps representing it have changed their minds by 180 degrees. they too have realized that shale gas is the best solution to reduce dependence on imports and create jobs, even though they were bitterly opposed during the opposition period. if exploitable resources are found, production could begin within a few years, subject to strict environmental conditions.
in writing. − the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico and, more recently, the elgin oil and gas leak in the north sea, have brought into focus the need to review policies related to the safety of offshore oil and gas installations and to ensure the protection of the eu's marine environment in the event of major accidents. the report contains concrete measures to eliminate the fragmentation and general disparities between member states' practices and legislation in this area and to guarantee the necessary safety and environmental standards throughout the union. i believe that the basic principle of eu environmental law, namely that the polluter pays, must be respected by all operators when they establish the financial guarantees necessary to cover the costs of clean-up and compensation in the event of major accidents. the high standards of action to limit environmental and human health damage set out in this report should be promoted internationally and in relevant global and regional forums, and mechanisms to ensure the effective application of these standards should be further examined.
in writing. - the tragic accident three years ago, with its loss of life and damage to property and the environment, is a wake-up call to everyone. it is clear that drastic measures must be taken to prevent this kind of situation, both in terms of safety at work and environmental protection. the european union is focusing on practical measures to remove fragmentation and differences in member states' practices and legislation in the field of offshore oil and gas activities. one of the important elements of the report is that it proposes a clear distinction between the authorities responsible for assessing the safety and environmental risks of these operations and those responsible for issuing drilling permits. we need to respond effectively to the rising risk trend and ensure that eu industry uses best practice to control major risks, by strengthening the eu's preparedness and response capacity and by clarifying legislation on liability and compensation.
in writing. − offshore oil and gas operations have recently been operating in increasingly difficult environments and conditions, with a high risk of accidents with devastating and irreversible consequences for the marine and coastal environment, as well as significant negative effects on coastal economies. the european union therefore has a vital interest in preventing and reducing the incidence of major accidents related to offshore oil and gas activities, limiting their consequences and improving the response mechanisms in case of an accident. the new proposal for a regulation is therefore a key instrument for ensuring the highest safety and environmental standards throughout the european union. in accordance with the international and european union legislation in force in this field, particular emphasis should be placed on strengthening the participation of citizens in informing the general public about major accidents and the measures taken to prevent and limit damage to the environment and human health. particular attention should also be paid to ensuring the protection of the arctic environment, a marine environment of unique and exceptional importance for the european union and a key player in climate change mitigation.
in writing. − the avoidance of new accidents such as the one that occurred in the united states could be possible if the exchange of information between member states is improved and cooperation between them is strengthened to improve the prevention of serious accidents caused by offshore oil and gas activities in european waters. we must not forget that such accidents have significant cross-border effects and as such support the proposal to extend the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) to include it in emergency preparedness and response and to organise regular testing exercises of cross-border emergency mechanisms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need a set of concrete measures at european level in the field of offshore oil and gas activities, aimed at eliminating fragmentation between the laws of the member states. following the deepwater horizon disaster in the united states, the european union took a serious look at reforming its national legal frameworks. first, the authorities responsible for assessing the safety and environmental risks of the operations must be independent of those responsible for issuing drilling permits. the report stresses the importance of strengthening cooperation and exchange of experience between eu competent authorities on the prevention of major accidents and their response, and on the extension of the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). with its strengthened mandate, emsa can play a key role in emergency preparedness and response. last but not least, the report proposes european safety standards that can be promoted internationally by eu-based businesses operating globally.
in writing. − the report on the proposal for a directive on the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production activities is a step forward for the eu in reducing the risk of major accidents related to these activities and is the first european legislation to be adopted in this area. i voted for the implementation of best practice in the regulation of offshore oil and gas activities in all eu member states and for strengthening the capacity to respond to emergencies that may affect eu citizens, the economy or the environment. the european parliament's report advocated the independence of the competent authority for the safety of oil activities, making a clear separation between the body responsible for the safety of operations and the one dealing with the economic development of these projects, thus avoiding any conflict of interest. the european parliament has strengthened the rules on obtaining operating licences and imposed strict requirements on companies applying for licences, requiring them to prove, before commencing operations, their financial capacity to cover potential environmental and economic damage.
there are studies showing that a boost to energy development at european level could generate around three million jobs by 2030. given the importance of this sector, i believe that a european support scheme for renewable energy sources should take into account the establishment of a pan-european fund to support renewable energy, co-financing from the cohesion policy and the european investment bank's financing instruments for the implementation of renewable energy installations and, last but not least, harmonisation of renewable energy support schemes at european level. that is why this report deserves our support and why i voted for it.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. the european union is on track to achieve its target of a 20% share of renewable energy sources in the energy mix by 2020. the scenarios presented by the commission in the energy roadmap 2050 assume a share of 30% by 2030 and at least 55% by 2050. these would ensure predictability for companies and individual consumers and would ensure a high level of competitiveness for the eu’s industry and agriculture. it would also empower consumers. in 2010, 22% of households were worried about being able to pay their electricity bills, and this figure is rising. therefore it is time to complete the internal energy market and facilitate the progressive integration of renewable energy sources.
increasing the share of energy from renewable sources is already an established trend at the european union level, which has set itself this ambitious target in the europe 2020 strategy. it is important, however, that the union pursue this policy not only to achieve much-needed energy independence and security, but also to set an international example in the context of the growing relevance of combating the effects of climate change. however, national and european decision-makers must consider harnessing the full renewable energy potential of the union. the development of this sector must be planned in the medium and long term, taking into account the imperatives of maintaining the competitiveness and efficiency of the european economic and industrial sector.
i voted for this report because, unfortunately for romanian consumers, energy costs will double as a result of price liberalisation. the development of renewable sources could mitigate the impact of liberalisation, but the romanian authorities seem to have other priorities. in early april, they approved a government decision granting guaranteed and priority access to the electricity grids for some thermal power plants. such actions, beyond being in breach of competition rules, are an obstacle to the promotion of renewable energy sources. according to some studies, dobrogea has the second largest wind energy potential in the entire european union. a lot of investors have been moving towards opening up wind farms in the area, which i've been consistently advocating. moreover, in 2012, the capacity of wind power generation in romania doubled.
in writing. − i supported this report because renewable energy in the european energy mix is growing in the short, medium and long term, and also contributes significantly to a secure, independent, diversified and low-emission energy supply, thus reducing air pollution, waste and water use, and other risks associated with electricity production. i believe that the european potential for renewable energy supply has not yet been fully exploited. energy policy must at all times strike a balance between security of supply, competitiveness and economic viability. in terms of international cooperation and trade, global renewable energy markets are growing, with positive effects on european industry and job creation. i also believe that the eu should develop close scientific cooperation and a clear policy on collaborative research and innovation in the field of renewable energy sources with international partners, in particular the brics countries. last but not least, sustainable hydropower in all its forms must be supported as it contributes to a renewable energy future and fulfils other valuable functions in addition to energy production.
in writing. − improving cross-border connections between member states' electricity networks will be beneficial for promoting the use of energy from renewable sources, for eliminating shortcomings in cross-border electricity trade, and for proper regulation of retail prices. given that the main beneficiaries of the completion of the internal energy market are consumers, i support maintaining this regulation, because this will allow consumers to decide on the choice of supplier, and fair competition for renewable energy sources will be the best incentive for innovation and cost reduction, thus preventing the spread of energy poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on renewable energy in the internal european energy market. from 2020, renewable energy sources must be an integral part of the eu energy market. for 2050, the eu is targeting a renewable energy share of at least 30% in 2030. however, the binding targets for the period after 2020 need to be subject to a clear assessment. the report calls for greater convergence and a more appropriate, integrated european system for supporting renewable energy for the period after 2020. for the future of electricity from renewable sources, an integrated and interconnected grid at european level is also needed. therefore, as early as 2014, the eu must have a functioning internal energy market, as this is crucial for the future integration of renewable energy. the report voted on today rightly criticises the fact that the existing cooperation mechanisms are not being used sufficiently. the european commission must develop pathways for member states to make more efficient use of these mechanisms, to cooperate and to coordinate cross-border energy flows.
in writing. − no one can deny that there are some negative effects on food production from energy crops. however, their impact on food prices has often been exaggerated. without neglecting the importance of the subject, which must be treated with great caution, the eu needs to have predictable and coherent energy crop policies, without which the system will not continue to develop, especially given the high costs associated with establishing many types of such crops.
i voted for this report. approximately 30% of the victims of crossborder trafficking in human beings in the european union are citizens of the balkan candidate countries, mostly women and girls. a 2010 united nations report shows that human trafficking generates more than 2.5 billion euros a year in europe alone. despite the inclusion of strict penalties for traffickers from the balkan states, the networks are growing and reproducing through new recruitment. therefore, strict penalties imposed by law do not ensure that organized crime involving the trafficking of women and girls is stopped. that is why we need to create a very strict framework that discourages traffickers, and the governments of these countries need to allow free access to justice, strengthen the system that provides assistance to victims of traffickers. it also has to ensure the protection of these women who are trafficked and who must only have the capacity of witnesses.
i voted in favour of the report because it presents a realistic picture of the situation of women in the balkans. i support the recommendations on the implementation of existing mechanisms and legislation in favour of women. this will require improved political participation and a strengthened fight against domestic violence. the economic crisis has had a negative impact on human rights, and women have certainly been the most exposed. a special case is represented by roma women, who are victims of a double discrimination, sex and ethnicity. more seriously, there is a trend towards a slowdown in the social inclusion of roma in most of the balkan candidate countries. the reason is the lack of information campaigns about the rights that roma have, but also the inadequate implementation of the legislation. also, pre-accession funds are not being used to their full potential.
in writing. − women's rights and gender equality should not be mere bureaucratic notions, promoted in high-level discussions in order to impress the audience. as in any other eu member state, the balkan candidate countries must take account of all the principles underlying the european construction. these countries must ensure that gender equality is respected on their territory, that women in the balkans enjoy the same rights, autonomy and protection as men. the rapporteur and i welcome the progress made by the balkan countries in gender equality legislation and support the continued promotion of the gender dimension in the enlargement process of the european project. with gender equality as one of the basic pillars of the enlargement of the european union, we will ensure that in the future women in the new member states will not be discriminated against, will have equal opportunities in decision-making at political and governmental level, will be represented in all the structures of leadership, political, social and economic life in their respective societies.
in writing. − i welcome the preparation of this own-initiative report, which has proved to be very necessary as seven countries in the western balkans - albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia - are at different stages of the accession process. given that these countries need to adopt and implement the eu acquis and other eu obligations in the area of gender equality, i stress the need and importance of public awareness campaigns in combating stereotypes, discrimination (on grounds of gender, culture, religion) and domestic violence, in order to promote gender equality. they also support the call on the governments of these countries to introduce measures to reduce the gender pay gap, to address the high unemployment rate, especially among women and especially those in rural areas, to ensure a legal framework for equal pay for equal work, to encourage their active participation in political life and to build functioning democratic institutions, by adopting measures that can ensure the reconciliation of private and professional life.
in writing. − i believe that at european level the governments of the balkan candidate countries must be supported and encouraged to develop strategies to combat violence against women and trafficking of all kinds.
in writing. − when we talk about equal rights, we also mean equal opportunities for women, who make up more than half of the population of europe. compared with previous years, i appreciate the efforts made by the balkan states to align their legislation with the acquis communautaire in this area, but draw attention to the importance of implementing these provisions. a step forward would be to better educate women, to make them aware of their rights and to make them aware of the importance of reporting any abuse they are subjected to. equally important to me is the issue of women's participation in decision-making at all levels of government, which is regulated by some states in the region by introducing minimum quotas of representation. in this context, i also stress the need to ensure the real economic independence of women, both through employment and through entrepreneurial initiatives. although many of the issues discussed in this report are general in the countries analysed, i believe that it is necessary to be more specific. the concrete examples for each country would be relevant, whether we are talking about violence, unemployment or trafficking in live meat, etc., so that we can really contribute to improving the situation of women in the countries that want to join the eu.
in writing. i voted for this report by mrs cornelissen because it gives women in the balkans real hope that their situation will improve. i believe that it is really necessary to redistribute some of the aid given to the candidate countries so that measures promoting equality between men and women are finally implemented and that women in the balkans can enjoy the same opportunities as their male counterparts. i therefore gave my support to this report without any hesitation!
in writing. - i voted in favour of all the provisions on the right to contraception, this being a vote of conscience. the member state i represent - romania - went through a long period under the communist dictatorship in which access to contraception was restricted and abortion outlawed. this period left a special trauma among romanian citizens. given this experience, i support free access to contraception and sex education. with regard to the same resolution, i consider that the high number of victims of cross-border trafficking in human beings from the balkan countries at eu level is a cause for concern and that european police cooperation needs to be stepped up to combat this phenomenon.
i voted for this report. one reason is that member states are being asked to remove insult and slander from their criminal law and i am totally in favour of that. in romania, the offences of insult and slander were abolished in 2007, on my own initiative. now, in 2013, libel and slander were reinstated in the penal code. the road we took was the other way around, we went in reverse. another serious issue affecting press freedom is the conflict of interest resulting from the simultaneous exercise of a political mandate and control of press institutions. this affects the independence of journalists and the way information is presented to the public. the osce report on the december 2012 parliamentary elections in romania shows that only one tv station presented the events equidistantly. this confirms the need for a legal framework to regulate such abuses, as a result of the concentration of media ownership in the hands of politicians.
i support the report by mrs renate weber because, like her, i believe that defamation should not be criminalised in the member states. an independent media must be impartial and objective, respect people's privacy, and distinguish between facts and opinions when reporting. the report also calls for the development of a european standard for the quality of work and the development of a european code of ethics. the latest mcv report notes the pressures that some media are putting on the judiciary in romania. i would therefore like to ask the romanian authorities to draw up a code of conduct, as recommended in the latest cvm report. the independence of national supervisory bodies must also be guaranteed. this will improve the quality of journalism and the citizens will be better informed.
in writing. − the independence of the media is one of the conditions for the correct and objective information of citizens. unfortunately, in recent years, due to the economic crisis, a number of problems have been reported that the media are facing in all member states. in this context, i welcome the preparation of this report and support the need for a study by the european commission on the effects of the crisis and the poor working conditions in the journalistic community, in order to analyse and try to remedy their consequences on media freedom and pluralism. i also stress 'the fundamental role of a balanced dual system in which the public and private media respect each other's roles', as the rapporteur also argues, and the need for proportionate and stable public funding for the public media in order to guarantee their political and economic independence. at the same time, i believe that transparency in the selection and appointment of media managers, in the election of boards of directors, based on professionalism and undeniable experience, is absolutely necessary.
in writing. − i support this report, given that freedom of expression in the public sphere is proving to be a key factor in stimulating citizens' participation in public debate, and that an active, competitive and pluralistic audiovisual and written media landscape is essential for the proper functioning of a democratic system. on the other hand, an autonomous and strong public sphere, underpinned by an independent and pluralistic media, is the best context in which the collective freedoms of civil society, such as the right to assembly and association, but also individual freedoms, such as freedom of expression and the right to access information, can flourish.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the eu charter: standard settings for media freedom across the eu, as i sincerely believe that free and independent media are an essential component of every democracy. more than ‘public watchdogs’ that enforce accountability, media are also the link between the decision-makers and the citizens. i very much welcome the call to member states to guarantee that funding of public service media should be sustainable, proportionate and stable, and to prevent dominant positions which impede pluralism. european authorities need to act to ensure that freedom of expression and information, as fundamental values of democracy, are fully protected.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the media play an important role in democracy, being a tool for informing citizens. journalists should be free, not be subject to pressures that might come from media owners, their managers, governments and should not be influenced by financial constraints. we have underlined in amendments to this report the importance of promoting responsible and ethical journalism, based on the 'code of conduct for journalists', in order to develop journalism based on professional objectivity and impartiality. it is essential that european citizens can form their own opinions without being manipulated by the media and benefit from a media that offers citizens freedom of interpretation and their own critical competences. national regulators have an important role to play and should cooperate and coordinate at eu level in promoting quality media. it must also be borne in mind that media freedom also includes the freedom of access to the media, to access the internet at a reasonable price, for all european citizens.
on the subject of pensions, i would like to draw attention to an issue which concerns me very much personally and which the commission should address as soon as possible. it is the lack of a social security system that takes into account the mobility of artists within the european union. last year, a task force was set up at the european commission level, together with relevant associations in the field, to identify and analyse the needs and obstacles faced by this highly mobile social group, such as artists. the results of this report will be published at the end of this year. to support these reforms, i will be organising a big debate in the european parliament in june with the european commission, the council of the european union and artists from across the european union to provide ideas to the european commission to consider in implementing the reform.
i voted in favour of the report because the economic crisis and demographic developments in the union are putting pressure on national pension systems. in romania, the huge pension fund deficit prompted the right-wing government to take a series of measures to consolidate the budget. despite the enormous political costs, the economy was stabilized and growth resumed. however, structural reforms are needed to avoid a collapse of pension systems in the union. despite the differences between member states, one thing is certain: young people will bear the brunt of the current situation, as they will be required to work for a longer period of time during their lives. i want to encourage the development of pillar two and pillar three pensions, which could provide adequate income after retirement.
in writing. − in a europe facing an ageing population, i believe that ensuring an adequate and viable pension for european citizens must be a priority for the european union. the current financial and economic situation has aggravated and amplified the impact of the strong trend towards an ageing population. the crisis has shown that more needs to be done to improve the efficiency and safety of pension schemes, which not only provide older people with the means to live a decent life, but also reward their hard work. the european pension agenda set out in the white paper is an excellent starting point for debate, after which reforms can be implemented through 'soft law' and possibly legislation. while retaining the responsibilities of the member states and the social partners, i believe that we need to create appropriate, safe and sustainable systems. moreover, they must also contribute to increased labour market mobility and free movement, systems that can provide solutions for the present and the future.
in writing. − given that the eu 2020 strategy aims to achieve a 75% employment rate for people aged 20-64, member states need to increase the employment rate and in particular the employment rate of older women and men. member states should therefore provide appropriate counselling and support to jobseekers and rehabilitation measures for long-term reintegration into the labour market. member states must strengthen public pension systems by improving the quality of jobs, wages and social services and by maintaining the means to finance social protection systems. given that young people enter the labour market late and the final contribution to the full pension is affected, i consider it necessary that the duration of the training periods be integrated into the calculation of the final pension. member states should also apply socially acceptable incentives for a later retirement and, where appropriate, develop attractive models for a flexible transition from working life to retirement.
in writing. − the pension problem at european level is becoming acute. i believe that we need to reform the eu pension system in order to save the european socio-economic balance, which is seriously damaged by the recession and threatened by an ageing population. to drastically reduce excessive deficits, many eu governments have decided to adopt austerity measures that directly affect pensions and the pensioners who receive them. i voted for this report because i believe that it is essential that measures and systems be adopted as a matter of urgency to ensure that pensioners in the eu countries have a decent standard of living. i hope that member states will act to reduce the vulnerability of pension systems by stimulating multiple pillars, increasing employment, achieving a work-life balance, reassessing early retirement and protecting workers' pensions in the event of insolvency.
in writing. − the challenges facing the european union in recent years - such as the financial and economic crisis, slow economic growth in the long term and an ageing population - have once again highlighted the vulnerability of pension systems at european level. this is why most eu countries will have to strengthen their budgets and reform their economies under austerity conditions, with a focus on rigorous public financial management. as such, member states need to assess the need to implement reforms of the first pillar pension systems, taking into account changes in life expectancy and changes in the ratio of pensioners, unemployed and economically active persons, in order to guarantee a decent standard of living and economic independence for older people, in particular those belonging to vulnerable groups.
in writing. − while pension systems are a matter for member states, the european union has committed itself, through the eu 2020 strategy, to making adequate, sustainable and secure pensions available to citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a harmonised european framework for adequate and secure pensions is essential, given the pressure on national budgets caused by austerity policies and ageing populations. although pension systems vary widely across member states, they are based on three pillars: the taxpayer solidarity pillar, financed from the state budget, the occupational pension pillar, based on negotiations between employee and employer and subject to private investment, and the private pillar based on individual savings. among the most important provisions, i welcome the adoption of a governance package and solvency rules for pillar two pensions, to mitigate the risks of pension funds' vulnerability to financial markets and bring them into line with private pensions. i believe that stricter rules are essential in safeguarding investments and protecting employees from economic recession and volatility in financial markets.
in writing. − the demographic challenge is no longer a future scenario but today’s challenge, posing major difficulties for the pension systems in all member states. the over-65 age group accounts for about 17 % of the total population in 2010, is rising by more than two million per year, and will reach almost 30 % of the total population in 2060. life expectancy at birth will increase by 7.9 years for females and 6.5 years for males by 2060. the pension system, especially the first pillar public scheme, is under severe pressure due to the economic and financial crisis and the demographic challenge. member states must implement the reforms needed in first pillar systems, taking into account changing life expectancies and the ratio between employed people and pensioners, which will be 2 to 1 in 2060, as opposed to 4 to 1 in 2008, in order to guarantee a decent living standard and economic independence for people in old age. the three-pronged strategy proposed by the stockholm european council in 2001 and reinforced in the context of the europe 2020 strategy – public debt reduction, increasing employment, especially for older people, and reforming social and security systems – has to be at the very roots of the member states’ strategies regarding this reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the following considerations: i believe it is extremely important, especially in the current context of the economic crisis, to recognise the role of smes as the main source of new sustainable jobs and, consequently, as factors that can drive economic growth in the eu. smes can contribute effectively and significantly to the viability of national pension systems and their long-term adequacy. i welcome the fact that many member states have already started to implement or implement major programmes in the framework of pension reform, programmes that take into account the sustainability and adequacy of those systems. it is very important that any such reforms be preceded by consultation with representatives of all age groups, including young and old, to ensure fair outcomes and maintain a consensus between generations. the commission and the council are invited to publish an integrated summary, drafted in a concise and simple manner, to enable citizens to assess the features and options of their national pension systems in comparison with other eu systems.
in writing. − the population of the member states is ageing, the birth rate is falling, life expectancy is increasing and the number of people over 60 still working is quite low. in the wake of the economic crisis, governments are forced to cut spending to balance revenues and reduce budget deficits. the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions is an excellent starting point for debates leading to a fair solution and a decent standard of living for europe's pensioners. it is important that we find ways to increase mobility and free movement in the labour market, which can solve some of the problems we face today. improving the employment rate by including marginalised people and increasing the retirement age in direct correlation with increasing life expectancy is also a viable option. complementing pay-as-you-go contributions (the current model) with private capitalised systems is an alternative to the crisis in the current pension system. equally important in the future will be the savings of each of us to supplement the amounts received through the traditional pension systems.
in writing. the european commission has published a green paper entitled 'towards adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems'. the content of the publication, its holistic approach, is confirmed by this report. stresses the need for transparency in the information provided to citizens and, in the current multiple crises, aims to help make accessible, reliable and responsible decisions on pensions, thus strengthening citizens' confidence in pension systems that are based on solid foundations and sustainable in the long term. it suggests that, taking into account the subsidiarity of the member states, the european community should focus not only on pension reforms but also on the sustainability of the financing system. member states are interdependent through their economies and the same applies to their pension systems. they should therefore harmonise their pension policies and improve the transparency of their pension systems, in particular by promoting the development of three-pillar pension systems. the individual design of pension entitlement, the life-course approach and the guidelines for the operation of supplementary pension schemes should be respected at the level of the guidelines by encouraging the exchange of good practices. the portability of the second pillar should be made possible, and equality between men and women should be better enforced in terms of pension entitlement, by taking into account periods of maternity, child-rearing and care for elderly family members.
the banking union is a vital project to break the link between heavily indebted governments and banks facing their own difficulties, and to avoid using taxpayers' money to bail out financial institutions. i welcome the important role that the european central bank will play in the supervision of banks in the member states participating in the single resolution mechanism, including through the possibility of giving instructions to the competent national authorities. i also believe that improving access to information and eliminating the possibility of judicial arbitration will lead to improved oversight. given that in romania, euro area banks hold three quarters of the banking system's assets and two thirds of its capital, and given my country's intention to adopt the single currency in the future, membership of the banking union becomes a necessity. in this context, i support the amendment to the european commission's original proposal to give non-euro area countries voting rights on the ecb's supervisory board. the risk of the banking union being divided into deciding and executing states has also been considerably reduced by the balanced voting system within the european banking authority. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly.) (speech from the right) ... of the banking union, but it is not enough to avoid major economic and financial crises. that is why i, like other colleagues, believe that we must agree as soon as possible on a single resolution framework and a single deposit guarantee scheme. without these three elements together, the european banking sector will remain fragile and bank deposits will not be protected by an adequate legislative framework. finally, i hope that the cyprus experiment will not be repeated in any other member state of the european union.
we are very close to completing the first pillar of the banking union, the single banking supervisory system, and i think it is worth congratulating all those who have made this happen, first of all commissioner barnier, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to thank in particular the two rapporteurs, mrs thyssen and mr giegold, for the special attention they have paid to the participation of non-euro area member states in these reports. for my country, romania, it is important to participate in this single banking supervision system, not only because over 80% of banking assets are held by banks with foreign capital owned by euro area banks, but also because we trust in the professionalism of those who will carry out this supervision from the european central bank. i would stress, however, the need for the subsequent negotiations between the council, the european parliament and the european commission to establish clearly the responsibility of the european central bank towards the european parliament for the fulfilment of this new banking supervision function.
in writing. the new regulation provides the european central bank with certain specific powers necessary to carry out its task of supervising the european banking system, while also ensuring the opportunity to design a future european banking union that provides the public and economic actors with safe and sustainable financial services without major risks to the real economy of the european union. i also welcome the creation of a 'single supervisory mechanism' for the prudential supervision of credit institutions, thus fulfilling one of the necessary preconditions for recapitalising banks through the european stability mechanism and regaining confidence in the european banking sector. at the same time, i welcome the fact that this proposal includes appropriate safeguards to guarantee the participation in the decision-making process of member states outside the euro area as well, as they will also be affected by the new changes proposed due to the high degree of interdependence of the european banking system.
in writing. the adoption by the commission of the legislative proposals on the ssm for credit institutions led by the ecb is just one step in the ambitious project of building a european banking union. we need a single european supervisor to combat the vicious synergies between the troubled banks and the indebted states of the euro area. the key elements for a successful banking union should not exclude enhanced supervision, fiscal protection mechanisms and deposit insurance rules. attractive conditions must be created for non-euro area member states to participate in this banking project. a stable framework must be created to enable banks to fulfil their role as financiers of the economy, especially in situations where member states have limited capacity to fully address the problems. the single supervisor will prevent excessive risk taking by banks and increase pressure, acting over national authority, on banks to repair their balance sheets. we need predictability and rules to act in cases of 'mortgages' or bank liquidation. this legislative package has initiated the mechanism that will create in the long term a supranational european banking union, effectively covering the whole of the european single market.
the issue we are debating today, the access of dyslexic and blind people to books, is an important one and all the more serious because it has been perpetuated for years. both the member states of the union and the european parliament promote and respect fundamental rights under the charter of fundamental rights and through the ratification of a significant number of international treaties, including the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. so we have an obligation, beyond declarations and solemn commitments, not just to recognize, but to put these rights into practice, so that these people who are our fellow human beings, our fellow citizens, can have equal access to information and to community life, equal access to the labor market, if possible, and this can only be achieved by access to books specific to their disabilities. i would like to remind the european commission of the european parliament's clear position in this area and the resolution we adopted. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am convinced, commissioner, and honourable members, that these rights cannot and should not be treated exclusively from a commercial perspective. it would be shameful and unacceptable that at the beginning of the 21st century these people, who have already suffered in terms of their quality of life, should once again be discriminated against because of an absurd commercial concern on the part of some member states.
our debate today started from a figure from the world blind union, which shows that only 5% of books published are available in a format accessible to the blind, which is worrying, because these people are discriminated against in terms of access to books. i support the objective of the current negotiations in the world intellectual property organization for a treaty guaranteeing equal access for blind people with those who are visually impaired. we must find a balanced solution that meets this objective and at the same time does not cause disproportionate damage to copyright holders. blind associations have raised a number of issues related to the obligations of this treaty which make it difficult to distribute books in accessible formats across borders. we need to take these concerns into account and find negotiated solutions that facilitate the international distribution of these books so that this treaty really adds value for the visually impaired.
in writing. the exceptions introduced in favour of blind people should facilitate their access to special books. however, the provisions may make procedures more difficult and obtaining materials for the blind more difficult. in romania, as in other eu countries, people with visual impairments face important problems. because of the many certificates of disability issued to those who did not qualify, those who are truly in trouble do not receive sufficient help. the social exclusion of blind people in romania is a real fact, especially if we consider that access to books and special manuals is very difficult. also, their printing cannot be done without adequate funding. another problem is the limited number of schools where blind children can learn.
although major progress has been made in implementing the provisions of the stockholm programme action plan, delays remain. i am referring to one of the political priorities of the programme, namely the continuing enlargement of the schengen area. the document calls on the council, subject to the fulfilment of the requirements for the application of the schengen acquis, to adopt measures to allow for the abolition of border controls, and as is known, both romania and bulgaria have fulfilled the criteria for some time, a fact confirmed by both the commission and the european parliament. so if we want the stockholm programme to be a success, i think the political priority of the schengen enlargement must be met. i hope by the end of this year that will happen.
mr president, in recent years the mobility of people within the european union has created major problems, such as the settlement of cross-border inheritances, that may accelerate in the coming years. citizens own estates in different member states. that ownership triggers the application of multiple inheritance laws and creates conflicts of law. i consider that having a framework for european cooperation on succession is an accomplishment that brings legal security to all european citizens. the successions regulation retains the principle of one law applicable to succession by determining the deceased’s habitual residence. although the regulation does not deal with taxation, i believe that having only one law applying to your estate will provide an opportunity with regard to previously unavailable tax planning. the commission recommendation of 15 december 2011 regarding the elimination of double taxation of inheritances is a good step in this direction, and i will wait for the report in 2014 to see what the commission decision on this matter will be. a solution would probably be to have the certificate of avoiding double taxation apply in this matter of inheritance as well.
the issue of certificates of succession has been partially resolved by the adoption of regulation 650/2012, but difficulties continue to be reported with regard to the different level of taxation for heirs and double taxation. these issues are not new, but have been addressed in the committee on petitions, where i am vice-chairman. i believe that from 2015, when the european certificate of succession regulation will come into force, taxation aspects will have to be harmonised. legislation, not just a recommendation, would therefore be needed to avoid double taxation of inheritances. this would remove legal uncertainty and create a single european framework in this area. at the same time, the adoption of a legislative act would be a step towards creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
access to documents of the european institutions is an important way for citizens to monitor the work of the union, and greater transparency would also increase citizens' confidence, contributing to a better understanding of the european decision-making process. that is why i believe that the present impasse must be overcome and that a regulation adapted to reality must be adopted. although parliament has adopted its position on the amendment of the legislative act, this procedure is currently blocked. it is important to give european citizens greater access to documents of the institutions, whether agencies or offices. the time limit of 15 working days within which the documents are to be provided shall be respected. i also consider that a similar time limit should be imposed for the settlement of requests for confirmation.
to help the eu emerge from the prolonged recession, the roadmap for completing economic and monetary union should focus on social and growth measures. unfortunately, this is a new attempt to make the labour market and wages more flexible and a danger for social europe. coordination of structural reforms at european level is needed to reduce these disparities. the commission document, however, seems to be aimed at implementing a specific type of reform: those centred around austerity. these include further privatisation and wage cuts, further deregulation of labour law and further weakening of trade unions. europe will not emerge from the political and economic abyss it is in by budgetary austerity alone, and the economic recovery in the united states confirms this idea. but it is not too late to start on the right path. the measures the commission should promote include the introduction of a national minimum wage in all member states and the placing of the social pillar at the centre of economic policies. at the same time, solidarity at european level, expressed through the joint guaranteeing of public debts, is becoming of fundamental importance for the future.
the impact of the economic crisis makes the impact of tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning on european public finances an increasingly pressing political issue. with the damage caused by these phenomena estimated at €1 trillion, european and national authorities alike are forced to take decisive action to limit and combat these situations, which threaten both the sustainability of the internal market and the efficiency of the various tax systems. i therefore support the action plan proposed by the european commission to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax evasion. these measures must be countered by more decisive action by the european institutions at international level and by increased cooperation between the member states of the union.
i voted in favour of the report because i support the measures proposed to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. since 2006, romania has lost 45 million euros every day, or a total of 100 billion euros by 2013. in 2012, the share of the underground economy in romania was estimated at 29,6% of gdp. improving collection could bring more funds to the budget for investment in jobs. i believe that the fight against eviction must become a national priority. whether we are talking about evasion in the trade in vegetable products or in the trade in alcohol and cigarettes, the tolerance must be zero. romania joined other countries, such as germany, italy, spain and greece, in exchanging information on escape cases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the fight against fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. with the european union countries losing around €1 trillion each year to tax fraud and evasion, i believe that new measures are needed to combat these phenomena, such as the elimination of banking secrecy and the introduction of reporting requirements on taxation at the national level for all companies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the union's ambitious target of halving the fiscal gap by 2020 without increasing the tax rate , which would generate new tax revenues (of several hundred billion euros per year), cannot be achieved without a number of additional measures that the commission should take. i also support the proposal to develop an appropriate european strategy to close the fiscal gap in the eu, based on concrete legislative measures. the creation of additional tax revenues will also allow the provision of additional resources needed to increase the level of public investment aimed at strengthening the eu's international competitiveness and growth potential.
in writing. − every year, the european citizen pays a cost of eur 2 000 as a result of tax fraud and tax evasion. i voted for this resolution against fraud, tax evasion and tax havens to support the european social model, which is under pressure from the fiscal gap during the most serious economic, financial and social crisis in recent years. i support the ambitious target of halving the fiscal gap by 2020 through national reform programmes for stability and growth. the public revenues thus available can finance fiscal consolidation measures while mitigating the effects of austerity. if, in order to combat tax fraud and tax evasion by natural and legal persons, the report provides for measures at national level in the form of the allocation of substantial resources to tax administrations and control staff, as regards tax havens, i support the proposed direction, namely a common european approach to them by all member states.
in writing. − every year, eur 1 trillion is lost to tax evasion and avoidance in the eu. in 2011, the size of the shadow economy was estimated at around eur 2.4 billion. this represents 19.2 % of eu-27 gdp. last april, ‘offshore leaks’ disclosed details of 130 000 offshore accounts following a years-long investigation by the international consortium of investigative journalists together with 36 international newspapers. moreover, the ‘tax justice network’ estimated that eur 16 trillion to eur 25 trillion are hidden in offshore places. i am highly concerned about the magnitude of offshore financial activities and the lack of encouragement to disclose offshore accounts. this is why i voted in favour of this report. i welcome that the present report recognises the vital importance of independent investigative journalism in exposing fraud schemes, corruption and organised crime. i urge the commission to fund investigative journalism and to reinforce the eu’s legal framework in accordance with the ‘follow the money’ principle. exposing cases where huge amounts of money are diverted from the normal financial circuits and hidden in tax havens should be revealed to the public.
i voted in favour of this report because crossborder tax evasion requires member states to work together to tackle the problem. the new framework for legislative cooperation, adopted over the past two years, facilitates the development of new instruments by the commission and the member states. but even in this context, there is a need for increased information sharing and compliance with minimum standards of good fiscal governance. one of the instruments we should take seriously is the removal of tax obstacles to crossborder transactions. the increasingly high level of tax evasion in romania, well above the european average, has led to the issue being prioritised at national level. this situation led to the creation of an interministerial committee to combat tax evasion by the former right-wing government.
in writing. − the main challenge facing european union societies, states and institutions today is the imperative to overcome the economic and financial crisis. although strong signals of stability have been sent by european political leaders and institutions in recent times, more needs to be done to revive growth and create jobs. the effects of the recession have led to falling incomes, job losses, a decline in the real living standards of european citizens and increased social exclusion. in this context, although fiscal policies remain a sovereign prerogative of the member states and although there is a high degree of coordination at this level between member states, overcoming the economic crisis requires intensifying the process of cooperation between member states. at the same time, it is important that member states avoid, in the process of taxing consumption, exacerbating social inequalities and worsening the conditions of competitiveness of european entrepreneurs.
in writing. − the debt crisis has raised several new issues in the eu that require the appropriate adjustment of fiscal policies in the short, medium and long term. it is well known that tax policy is a matter for the member state and that the different tax systems of the member states must be respected and that barriers to the internal market and uncertainties and misunderstandings arising from legal differences should be eliminated as soon as possible. there is thus a need to create at union level a well-integrated system coordinating national tax systems in order to take account of the reductions and increases made in the national systems. to restore the credibility of fiscal policy and reduce sovereign debt, fiscal discipline and structural reforms must be introduced. increasing taxes in certain areas, such as excise duties, could have some positive effects, channelling additional resources and thus bringing benefits to citizens and the real economy. tax incentives for research and development can help to create growth and jobs in knowledge-based economies. member states should also complete the procedures for all ongoing legislative proposals on tax fraud, tax evasion, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and tax havens.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that it is to the benefit of citizens to have a clear and transparent tax environment within the single market. the report suggests creating a system to coordinate the tax systems of all member states. i believe such action would contribute to reducing levels of fraud and evasion and i think it would be a huge step forward in order to strengthen growth and improve public finances. providing tax incentives for research and development and suppressing the barriers of the internal market will foster long-term benefits. the eu needs a tax policy that will lessen the dramatic effects of the economic and financial crisis which our citizens are facing.
in writing. - mr president, the annual losses in the european union due to tax evasion and tax avoidance represent a cost of approximately eur 2 000 for each eu citizen. there's money that's being lost from the budget that could be used for education, research or other vital areas to stimulate long-term economic growth and employment. i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation at eu level of a mechanism to coordinate national tax systems, taking into account the particularities of each. for crossborder, internal and external investments in the eu, ensuring a transparent, predictable and stable tax environment is in the interest of all businesses, citizens, state institutions. member states must ensure that tax discipline is respected and that dissuasive measures are put in place to reduce tax fraud and evasion. thank you, thank you!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because the charter of fundamental rights introduces a set of principles which underpin the democratic functioning of the union. i should point out that extending the provisions of the protocol to the czech republic would have limited effects and would probably increase legal uncertainty. there is also a risk that the standards of protection of fundamental rights will be lowered if the protocol is applied in the czech republic. at the same time, the unknown position of the czech parliament can create even more political confusion. therefore, i believe that the recommendation not to convene a convention to consider the proposed extension of the protocol is the best solution at this time. the czech authorities should take a clear position on the protocol in order to settle the debate on the subject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the current situation regarding the application of protocol 30 should be clarified as soon as possible. the czech republic wished to accede to the protocol due to concerns about the effects of the charter on the beneš decrees. however, since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, no relevant case law has been recorded in czech case law concerning the application of the charter. and i believe that the act cannot create exceptions to the application of the charter of fundamental rights. the fact that the czech senate voted against the application of the protocol in 2009 also shows that there is no clear position of the czech authorities. i think the problem should be solved internally first, and then we could go ahead with the proposed changes. this would avoid legal uncertainty.
in writing. − the principle of mutual recognition and judicial cooperation in civil protection matters offers the prospect of uniting the diversity of civil and administrative courts throughout the union. people for whom a civil protection measure has been adopted will in future feel that they are part of a single system of protection designed to provide them with the security they need in any of the countries of the european union. i too believe that the protection enjoyed by a citizen in one eu member state should not disappear when that person chooses to move to another state, but that every effort should be made to ensure that that protection is recognised and respected by the authorities of the state of destination. in this respect, i welcome the use of the standardised and multilingual certificate proposed by the rapporteurs and the increased attention paid to the assistance and information provided to the protected person. the provision of these two activities in an accessible language, through translation or interpretation of protection measures, is a guarantee that citizens will receive the protection they deserve in another member state to which they decide to move.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it will strengthen the rights of victims of crime in the union. the proposal is another step towards the objective of creating a common area of freedom, security and justice. simplifying the recognition of protection orders entails increasing trust in the judicial systems of the member states. the measures are aimed at protecting victims of violence, especially in cases of domestic violence, harassment and violence against children. as vulnerable groups to such crimes, women and children should enjoy protection throughout the union. i also welcome the administrative provisions which will no longer require the legalization of the certificate to be recognised in another member state. this will reduce costs and formalities and harmonise the protection of victims of crime across the union.
in writing. − this proposal responds to the need for a comprehensive european legal framework capable of ensuring that victims of crime are recognised for the harm they have suffered and are afforded the highest possible level of protection within the union. this will complement the european protection order directive, which ensures the mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters. the combined application of the two instruments (criminal and civil) will allow persons enjoying a protection order to move freely and safely within the eu as provided for in article 3 of the treaty on european union and will ultimately lead to the strengthening and development of the area of freedom, security and justice in the union. i think it would be useful to set up a mechanism which would eliminate intermediary formalities by using a standardised and multilingual certificate. this would ensure not only the promptness and speed of the reconnaissance but also the execution of the protective measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her work in preparing the report on this regulation, which complements the directive on the protection order covering criminal matters, the two instruments together including as many measures as possible to be taken by the member states. the regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters will enter into force on 11 january 2015. it will apply in all member states and provide that protection granted in one member state will be maintained when the victim moves or travels to another member state. the procedure for applying for protection will also be simplified by removing all intermediate formalities. in order to ensure recognition and enforcement of protection throughout the union, the regulation includes a standard certificate in several languages containing the essential information. by using it, translation costs will be minimized, so that the protected person will have no additional expense.
in writing. - mr. president, i voted in favour of the report. it is important that there are laws to deter and punish violations of individual freedoms and rights, but it is equally important that victims are supported by the authorities and have legislation to protect them. in 2012, statistics showed that in romania between 75 and 80% of women are abused in the domestic space (verbal, psychological, physical or sexual). these amendments particularly support the vulnerable group of persons subject to violence within the family by simplifying formalities and by european recognition of their special status. the restrictions on the mobility of victims of convicted violence that have existed until now are thus removed. it is important that this regulation is transposed and applied as soon as possible, including the administrative component of the new standardised forms, so that concrete effects can be seen among beneficiaries. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because one of the most important improvements this agreement will bring is the recognition of the status of authorised economic operator (aeo) of european companies by the canadian authorities, following the example of the agreements already established between the eu and norway, switzerland, japan or the usa. furthermore, this agreement highlights the need to increase security throughout the supply chain, while facilitating legitimate trade between the eu and canada, and creates a framework for exploring future means of cooperation to improve practices in this area. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the problems relating to agricultural products are still unresolved, in particular the export of beef to europe and european dairy products to canada.
in writing. − customs relations between the european union and canada are based on the customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement on customs matters of 1998. the objective of the new agreement is to strengthen customs aspects of the security of the international trade logistics chain, including container security, while facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement provides a legal basis for enhanced customs cooperation between the eu and canada on issues such as risk standards, security controls, minimum standards for risk management techniques, information and data exchange, strategic partnership in the field of goods inspection, and cooperation in multilateral fora such as the world customs organization. as a member of the delegation for relations with canada, i consider this risk-based approach to be appropriate for the global security of the supply chain, which allows for the smooth conduct of legal international trade without constituting an unnecessary economic burden for authorities and commercial operators.
in writing. − i encourage better cooperation between the eu and canada, as i consider risk management to be one of the union's priorities for developing better trade relations. by this agreement, the european union is successfully aligning itself with global security standards, as it is clear that in a highly globalised society no country can ensure supply chain security alone, and international cooperation and standards are essential. it is a turning point in mutual recognition, including the recognition of trade partnership programmes, with trade facilitation measures through the aeo (authorised economic operator) programme and the canadian pip (protection partners) programme. in addition, the estimated annual benefits of approximately eur 11.6 billion for the union and eur 8.2 billion for canada, together with the fact that the agreement has no implications for the union budget, represent another major advantage generated by its approval and implementation.
in writing. − in a globalised world, where no country can ensure supply chain security alone, international cooperation and the promotion of global security standards are essential. the eu-canada agreement on customs cooperation is part of a broader process and sustained actions undertaken by the eu over the last decade in the field of supply chain security and risk management. in this context, i welcome and approve the conclusion of the agreement on mutual recognition of customs security between the european union and canada. this new agreement establishes the necessary legal basis for enhanced customs cooperation between the european union and canada and will facilitate legitimate trade without creating an unnecessary economic burden for authorities and traders. moreover, it will complement the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) currently being negotiated.
in writing. − i voted for this recommendation, as i truly believe that every opportunity to bring the eu and canada closer should be seized. by enhancing customs cooperation and mutual assistance, this agreement will help to secure the supply chain and permit legitimate international trade to flow easily. nevertheless, in the context of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) under negotiation, canada should be committed to strengthening its partnership with all member states and their citizens. however, while i welcome measures that improve our trade flows, goods and services cannot be more important then our own citizens. i believe that every citizen of the eu should be treated equally, but because of the lack of reciprocity in the case of visa requirements, romanian, bulgarian and czech citizens are being subjected to unfair discrimination. as i mentioned before, this point is a priority and will need to be resolved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because i consider the agreement to be a natural step forward in the eu’s customs relations with canada in the matter of end-to-end supply chain security and risk management. taking into account the 1998 agreement on customs cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters (cmaa), the agreement will establish a legal function for increased eu-canada customs cooperation that aims to secure the logistics chain of international trade in order to facilitate legitimate trade. furthermore, it will be a milestone for mutual recognition of agreements on customs security and on supply chain security policy. within the framework of the eu’s authorised economic operator (aeo), negotiated both with the us and china, we have registered over 10 000 european companies as certified safe traders since 2008. the agreement with canada is an opportunity to increase this number in our efforts to secure supply chains and to extend the legal framework for scarce resources concentration on high-risk consignments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the purpose of the financial supervisory mechanism is to provide a coherent response to the crisis at european level. the mechanism is an important step towards the creation of a european banking union. cooperation between the european banking authority and the european central bank is therefore essential to achieve the objectives proposed. as it is aimed in particular at euro area banks, the supervisory mechanism should take into account the risk of spillovers of euro area banking crises to non-euro area members. to deepen integration and move towards genuine political union, harmonisation of financial sector rules is mandatory. romania, although not yet part of the euro area, will be able to participate in the mechanism together with the euro area countries and the other participating non-euro countries.
in writing. − in 2008, when the financial crisis spread across europe, there were 27 different systems of bank regulation in operation in the eu, all based on national rules and national rescue mechanisms. although some form of coordination exists at eu level, it is concerned with relatively informal exchanges of information and cooperation procedures. the european banking authority was established in 2011 to help coordinate the activities of national regulators and ensure the consistent application of eu-wide rules. the banking union proposal will result in a change in the way euro area banks are supervised, creating a single supervisory mechanism to be set up within the european central bank.
in writing. − the european banking authority was established in 2011 with the main objective of ensuring the supervision and stability of the financial system at european level. i believe that this new proposal will give the european banking authority the tools it still needs to be able to achieve the most comprehensive supervision of the european banking system. in view of the high degree of contagion, i believe that supervision must be as broad as possible to cover banks in member states without the single european currency, thus ensuring the stability of the whole european financial system and not just that of the euro area. the implementation of a single regulatory framework for supervision is a natural consequence of the common desire to simplify, harmonise and review supervisory and regulatory mechanisms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because there are high expectations of union citizens for the banking union and the deadline for the single supervisory mechanism is fast approaching. the romanian banking system is dominated by the branches of euro area banks. so my country is subject to similar risks as any eurozone country, with romanian citizens being directly vulnerable. i also believe that euro area countries need to reach an agreement with non-euro area countries to apply the mechanism. even if the final vote is to be postponed, i believe that the inclusion of the subject on the agenda of the plenary session shows the determination and urgency of the achievement of banking union.
in writing. − i welcome the rapporteur's recommendations and draw attention to the safety measures that member states must take, especially with regard to european citizens using pyrotechnic articles in a non-professional context. i consider that the market surveillance of these products is an activity that requires close coordination at the level of all member states, especially in the context of the expansion of distance transactions in these products via the internet. one of the major dimensions that must and is considered in this report is public health. from the perspective of better regulation of pyrotechnic articles, public health means offering increased protection to consumers of such products, whether children or the elderly. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because in my view the directive is part of our efforts to establish a common framework for the marketing of pyrotechnic products. it also deepens and strengthens the rules for consumer protection, which are so important for pyrotechnic articles. i am confident that the new legislative framework will address a number of gaps in european union law and is a natural step towards completing the single market. as regards the romanian case, i consider it worth mentioning that since the restriction of the marketing of pyrotechnic articles in 2006, the number of cases of persons injured by them has decreased from over 350 to 25 per year.
in writing. − the inconsistent implementation and enforcement of current union harmonisation legislation in the member states, together with the complexity of the regulations, has led to increasing difficulties for both economic operators and authorities in interpreting and correctly applying the legislation, leading to unequal market conditions and also to the introduction of unsafe products on the market. in order to ensure that all economic sectors covered by union harmonisation legislation benefit from the improvements brought about by the new legislative framework, the provisions of the decision should be integrated into existing product legislation.
in writing. − the audiovisual media services directive 2010/13/eu is the cornerstone of media regulation in the european union. this directive has been implemented to a different extent by the member states. i believe that special attention should be paid to minors who are most exposed to the dangers of commercial communications. i am referring in particular to advertising for alcoholic beverages, unhealthy products or advertising that encourages certain consumption patterns. i believe that the measures taken by the member states to protect minors, including the tightening of national provisions, are encouraging. member states should be encouraged to develop codes of conduct addressing the issue of inappropriate audiovisual commercial communications during children's programmes.
in writing. − connected tv brings with it both important opportunities and significant challenges. in the context of new technological solutions, we need to ask ourselves how we can successfully promote european works and the creations of independent producers, how we can protect consumers, including children, from the excessive influence of advertising, how we can create a level playing field for broadcasting companies, how we can protect freedom of expression and media pluralism and how we can promote media education, especially among young people. the protection of minors, which is the subject of the report, is of major importance. minors are most exposed to potential dangers, especially those presented by commercial communications. this includes advertising for alcoholic beverages, unhealthy products or advertising that encourages certain consumption patterns, for which advertising spots have been sanctioned by various measures taken by the member states (including by tightening national provisions to protect the category of minors). media education is another key objective of the directive. given that access to channels and choice of audiovisual services have increased significantly, we consider it appropriate to integrate media education and digital skills, especially in digital media, into national school curricula.
in writing. − i welcome the complex nature of the directive, which combines the right to the provision of audiovisual services with the right to freedom of expression, information and the protection of the public interest. i stress the importance of making these services accessible to all, especially those with disabilities, protecting european works and independent productions (the share is 10%), protecting minors, avoiding excessive advertising (the share is 12 minutes out of 60), and guaranteeing media freedom and pluralism. however, it is critical that the directive does not deal with ensuring equal opportunities for women and men, nor with protecting the image of women in the provision of these services, given that audiovisual media services very often contain messages discriminatory against women. the media education that the directive is talking about must also include the principle of gender equality.
in writing. − i support this report because i believe that we need to have a concrete assessment of the implementation at european level of the audiovisual media services directive 2010/13/eu. the european commission is facing difficulties in drawing up the report on the application of the directive because this directive, which regulates the media at eu level, has not been implemented in a timely or adequate manner by all member states. it is also vital that member states encourage the media (broadcasting companies) to provide services to increase accessibility to information for disadvantaged or disabled segments of society (blind or hearing-impaired people).
in writing. − in an increasingly active and dynamic society in terms of information and dissemination of information to the public, regardless of where they are located, it is essential that all european citizens can have access to media services. as such, i consider that member states must encourage and facilitate the provision of media services by broadcasting companies to persons with visual or hearing impairments, who have the same rights to information as all other persons. however, it is essential that all broadcasters first have a clearer vision of the needs of these people and take more action to develop technologies that ensure wider access to programmes for all citizens by developing, inter alia, audio descriptions, audio/voice subtitles, sign language and navigation menus, with specific reference to electronic programme guides.
in writing. − media broadcasting in europe has suffered significant changes in past years. we are concerned about the importance of promoting cultural diversity through the distribution of european works. the audiovisual market is part of the single market. this own-initiative report comes in response to the first report from the commission to parliament on the application of directive 2010/13/eu (avmsd). the report, among other points, aims to analyse the effectiveness of the directive and the progress it has made. the report encourages the commission, trying to solve some misunderstandings, to examine what ‘uncertainties or inaccuracies in the definitions have led to difficulties in implementation in the member states’. in the report, it also said that member states should ‘take effective measures to promote better synergies among regulatory authorities [...] so that eu films can reach a wider audience both within and beyond the eu on linear and non-linear services’. the commission has to analyse in depth the evaluation of the markets and also of consumer behaviour in this time of changes. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the first report on the application and the related effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu. the purpose of european multimedia content is to promote european programmes and works and to bring the voter closer to his or her representatives in the institutions. but not only: the directive sets out to assess the effective implementation of the rights to information, the protection of minors, freedom of expression and the protection of minorities in all eu countries. this is an ambitious task, with important objectives, which must be developed and reviewed in the light of a future that is different, also for the new media channels, which are increasingly diversified and hybrid.
in writing. − regulating relations between media operators is necessary, as concentration of media ownership can undermine press freedom or have effects in terms of encouraging corruption. romania is a negative example in this respect, with the largest press trusts owned by politicians or people directly involved in the political sphere. manipulating public opinion has unfortunately become a rule that more and more tv stations are guided by, the most relevant example being that of the intact trust (with 6 tv stations) owned by dan voiculescu, accused in corruption cases and former collaborator of the communist security. the pressure exerted by such media institutions has a direct effect in diminishing the plurality of opinion and through aggressive campaigns created against prosecutors, magistrates or judges of the constitutional court, by which they try to discredit them and implicitly attack their independence, trying to influence the act of justice. this is also criticized in the latest mcv report, which speaks of the questionable effectiveness of the surveillance activity carried out by the national audiovisual council, where a review of existing rules is needed to guarantee that freedom of the press is accompanied by adequate protection of institutions and fundamental rights.
in writing. − the consequences of this legislation are far-reaching, and i therefore welcome the ongoing scrutiny of its implementation. this report recognises some of the limitations of the avms directive, for example those relating to the self-regulation of advertising of junk food to children. i believe we need much stronger restrictions than those currently in place. voluntary measures, such as those contained in the eu pledge, do not go far enough and really just serve as a way for manufacturers to avoid proper regulation. we are facing an obesity epidemic with huge consequences, and part of the solution lies in restricting the promotion of high fat and high sugar foods to children.
madam president, syria marks a break between grand politics, the interaction between the great powers and its materialisation on the ground, leading to the suspension of the responsibility to protect principles. both intervention and non-intervention have high costs, but the factor which ultimately counts is the syrian people. the civil war has generated millions of both internal and external refugees who have fled insecurity only to find it in their new locations, complicating the region’s already complex political, security and economic situation, as lebanon and jordan indicate. the solution to the refugee problem lies in syria and it is exclusively political – it is just that things went too far to make a dialogue with the bashar regime possible. moreover, the opposition continues to be fragmented, and foreign involvement on both sides continues unabated, complicating the situation with every passing day. one wonders how many lives could have been saved and how much destruction avoided if the un security council had been allowed to act earlier in the conflict. the eu and the member states which are already vigorously involved in managing the social consequences of the civil war should continue their involvement, taking the lead in the international efforts to alleviate this exponentially-increasing humanitarian problem.
if syria today has not reached the situation of rwanda or afghanistan, it is because of its neighbors: turkey, jordan and lebanon. the ability of these countries to receive and host refugees depends on the support of the western world, depends on the support of the european union. the crisis will spiral out of control completely when neighboring countries are unable to take in syrian refugees, whose numbers are likely to double by the end of the year. we must bear in mind two things: first, that this support is not sustainable in the long term - that is why efforts are needed to find a political solution; second, that the millions of refugees, over 60% of whom are children or young people, will need constant support after returning home to rebuild their lives. finally, a final remark is related to those refugees who were displaced from syria without being syrians, and i am referring primarily to the palestinians - they should not be ignored either.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, during the arab spring, the european union froze the assets of senior figures from the former tunisian, egyptian and libyan regimes. today, as everyone who travels to the region can attest, the return of misappropriated and frozen assets is of great political importance. for the people of tunisia, egypt and libya, this is a matter of justice and dignity. they want an end to the impunity and corruption of the past; they want the misappropriated assets to be returned and invested in their countries. although the competence of the european union is limited in this matter, it is a priority for the high representative and for myself. let me highlight some of the actions taken over the past few months. we have renewed our sanctions for a further 12 months to give egypt, tunisia and libya time to achieve the return of assets. we have modified our sanctions legislation to ensure that information-sharing on assets can be facilitated. we have simplified the process for transferring assets to tunisian, egyptian and libyan authorities once a judgment is obtained. we co-organised an expert seminar which brought together members of the tunisian judiciary, international organisations and the member states and which allowed our tunisian colleagues to improve their expertise and rethink their asset recovery strategy. as part of the follow-up to the european union-egypt task force, we are developing a roadmap for asset recovery. we are also using the european union’s influence to raise the profile of this issue. internally, we have addressed asset recovery in the council and in several meetings and events organised with parliament. externally, we have raised asset recovery at the g8’s deauville partnership. unfortunately, despite our efforts, progress on asset recovery has not been what we hoped for. the political will is there, but the ownership of these assets has been deliberately obscured, and judicial procedures must be followed. therefore, the frozen assets cannot just be released overnight. ownership must rightfully be transferred to the new state structures. this is a complex legal process which must be resolved bilaterally between tunisia, egypt and libya and the individual european union member states concerned. the european union is ready to facilitate this process as much as our competences allow. we must not use complexity as an excuse for delay. however, due process must be respected while we all work together. the european union will continue to work with our partners, member states and international organisations to accelerate the process so that the money returns to where it belongs.
on behalf of the epp group. we are discussing today the recovery of assets for the countries engaged in the arab spring, more than two years after the beginning of the transformations that the southern neighbourhood has experienced. as commissioner füle suggested earlier, i think there are two perspectives involved. i'm talking about the prospects of the citizens of tunisia, egypt and libya. it's first of all the perspective, if you will allow me to use this expression, economic; it emphasizes the economic, financial importance, first of all, for the governments of the arab spring countries, who are facing the challenge of economic reconstruction, and from this perspective, certainly, the recovery is seen as a means of putting something at the foundation of reconstruction. on the other hand, we have the other perspective, i would say even more important, the perspective of justice and dignity. citizens of tunisia, egypt and libya want their assets back because they see it as a measure of justice, given that those assets have been tied to decades of corruption. on the other hand, it's a long process, it's a complex process, as also said earlier, we remember that in the philippines the assets that ferdinand marcos had stolen were not recovered until a quarter of a century later. in some of the countries mentioned, specifically in tunisia, so far only $28 million has been recovered from an account in lebanon, very little. what we can do is to cooperate at member state level by providing technical and legal assistance to speed up the process as much as possible.
i am a supporter of enlargement of the union, whether it is eastward enlargement of europe or whether it is enlargement to the western balkans. however, bosnia and herzegovina is the only country in the region that has not made progress in european integration. a major reason could be a lack of vision when it comes to where the country should go. the administrative structure of the country also makes decision-making difficult. there is doubt among both politicians and the public about bosnia's ability to function as a genuine state. but the differences between politicians, their own interests put before the national interest, stop the eu from getting closer, just as it is in the republic of moldova, so whether we are talking about expansion to the east or to the western balkans, politicians find it difficult to reach a consensus. the situation of minorities is another area of concern. the constitution only allows ethnic bosniaks, serbs and croats to run for the presidency of the country or for the upper house. i would point out that there is a risk of creating a climate of scepticism among the population.
on behalf of the alde group. beyond the balanced report by our colleague mr howitt, a few questions are worth asking in this debate today, because macedonia, along with turkey, represents the countries that are waiting for a positive signal from the european union. it seems that turkey will be a failure, and probably macedonia, if there is no will. the political will must be demonstrated here in brussels, because you are always asking us for more europe, but unfortunately you are not doing much to achieve more europe, and we are being guided by the somewhat unilateral policies of some member states, which is not, in my view, acceptable. this is a political decision which is vital for the union. because, in view of the failure of the eastern partnership, which is probably foreseeable, i believe that a failure of enlargement policies would also create an image that would not put us in a favourable position in front of the european citizens in terms of trust and cohesion. commissioner, we were talking about reforms - you testified that reforms are taking place! we all criticize certain political behaviour, but i would not like to use a double standard: there are countries, member states, where political behaviour is far from being somehow necessary and consistent with a democratic standard of the european union. it is important, however, to think positively, to avoid using terms that are somewhat obstructive. i believe that in macedonia, as in the whole area, ethnic relations have normalized, there are citizens who have dual citizenship, because this country allows dual citizenship, which others do not tolerate. we should no longer be talking about what's called antiquation, a phenomenon of retrieving history. history is a good of cultural identity of every people and we must respect this for macedonia - that we do it more or better or worse, from an aesthetic point of view it is not for us to judge, but it is certain that from our point of view, the european liberals, it is vital to start negotiations and we support this.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me thank you for this substantial debate, which demonstrated the high level of attention and support of this house towards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. let me start where the honourable member has just ended. you need two to tango: that is how it works. number one. number two: you are saying it is completely wrong to open accession negotiations without solving the name issue. you are saying that the commission is completely wrong. you are saying i am completely wrong. let me argue that i am not completely wrong. if we agree that the status quo is unsustainable; if we agree that the conditions need to be created for the parties to move forward, and if at the same time we agree – because no one is questioning this – that the name issue needs to be solved and that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia could hardly become a european union member state without addressing this issue, then this actually gives us more opportunities than solving the name issue before the opening of accession negotiations. in fact, if you look at the commission’s october progress report, the commission was absolutely clear there. let us open accession negotiations. that in itself would generate a new momentum, in the framework of which we will be able to address the name issue. we also made it clear in our progress report that, with the enlargement process drawing on the lessons learnt about the accession process being streamlined and actually more and more in the hands of the member states, we could, through the negotiating framework, provide the member states – not just one member state, but all member states – with a guarantee that we might (and again i am just speculating here) start the screening process, which takes a sufficiently long period of time within which there will be an environment more conducive to addressing the name issue, and we could make it clear in that negotiating framework that we will not move towards the second stage of the accession negotiations – which means opening various chapters – unless the name issue has been solved. i was, however, completely wrong to make this suggestion to my college, to my colleagues in the commission. all of them have agreed with me on this issue. on 1 march 2013 i went with two very good friends, members of the european parliament (mr howitt and mr buzek), to skopje, where we facilitated an agreement to solve the political crisis. in june the council will decide whether to accept the commission’s recommendation to open accession negotiations. for the council to take a positive decision, the country must demonstrate the necessary political will. this implies implementation of the political agreement of 1 march and continued efforts to improve neighbourly relations. on the other hand – and let me stress this – it is also necessary that the country’s level of preparedness and the reform efforts that have been made over the past year are judged objectively and fairly.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i would like to thank members for the very good debate in which you have participated this evening. i would like to conclude the discussion by welcoming the very significant progress which has been achieved by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to date. i think it is appropriate that we acknowledge that the effort is difficult, that the reforms are not easy, and that the authorities, the government and the people have to work extremely hard, so i am very impressed. during the irish presidency i have had a lot of contact with my counterpart over the last few months and we have to acknowledge the progress made. it has, of course, been beneficial. it has brought about democratic and economic transformation for the country, and that is a good thing. i hope we will see a lot more of that in the future. i am confident that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will make further efforts during the rest of this year to achieve further important reforms. i should say that it continues to be a priority and stated objective of the irish presidency to open negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i hope we can achieve that objective, but we need to facilitate that. we need to see concrete progress on the issues which have been well rehearsed here today in order for that to be achieved. a firm commitment to good neighbourly relations is a particular priority for the council, as you well know, and indeed it has been articulated as a priority by many members here this evening. so i would encourage the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to intensify bilateral discussions in order to reach a successful settlement on the outstanding issues, and not least on the issue of the name. i think there is a risk that we will descend into a blame game. i do not think this is fruitful or that it benefits either the country or its neighbours, or indeed the european institutions. it is apparent that, when there are issues of this nature, both sides have to engage. they have to participate fully, particularly in the un-mediated process in this case. i urge both parties to genuinely engage, and to do so intensively in the weeks ahead. it is really crucial from the council point of view. i cannot stress that loudly enough: it is absolutely crucial. i think that is apparent from the european council conclusions of december. so i am appealing to both sides to move forward rapidly. finally, i would like once more to express my sincere gratitude for the outstanding work and the commitment of your rapporteur, mr howitt, which i think goes above and beyond the call of duty, if i may say so. you have been extremely hard-working and extremely active in working to bring the political parties together to create a compromise, to create the atmosphere and the environment which will allow european integration to come closer to the country and to its people, which is what this process is all about. again, well done to you, and thank you very much for your hard work. thank you also to the members for the very fruitful debate this evening.
in writing. – macedonia must go forward on its way to the european union and therefore it is essential to send a positive signal regarding its future with us. the name issue between macedonia and greece is exclusively a bilateral issue and as such it should not interfere with the opening of accession negotiations. we have an interim accord signed between the two countries on 13 september 1995 and it must be respected. all candidate countries must be treated on their own merits and this is why i urge the council to start accession negotiations by the end of 2013. progress has been made in the judiciary and the fight against corruption: the law on the financing of the political parties has been adopted and verification of statements of interest has been established. i encourage the macedonian authorities to enforce fully the criminal code provisions on extended confiscation, illicit enrichment and criminal liability of legal persons. i also encourage them to continue improving the independence and efficiency of the judiciary and the unification of jurisprudence to ensure the predictability of the judiciary and public trust in the system. high-level corruption cases must be a priority along with transparency of public expenditure.
in writing. i welcome the debate on the howitt report on the progress made by macedonia in 2012 and the involvement of the rapporteur, together with commissioner füle and president buzek, in resolving the political crisis that began at the end of last year. i would also like to stress from the outset that the agreement of 1 march must be fully implemented and that this opportunity to move forward on the path of european integration must not be missed. i also welcome the special report published by the european commission on 16 april. it confirms what we actually knew, which is that this country has made significant progress towards accession, despite the political crisis. macedonia implements the reforms set out in the high level accession dialogue launched in march 2012, relations with neighbours have continued to be good and macedonia has taken steps to improve bilateral relations with greece and bulgaria. i therefore support the recommendation to open accession negotiations with macedonia, which has been included in all commission progress reports since 2009. the dispute over the country's official name should no longer be a pretext for delaying them, especially after the new push for its resolution at the un in april.
the trade agreement with the united states represents a tremendous opportunity for european agricultural producers. i would like to mention as a successful example the signing a year ago of the agreement on the recognition of organic certification, an agreement which has already brought important benefits to both sides. a sensitive point, however, is the difference of views on genetically modified organisms, with a whole list of divergences in the field of agriculture: quality, food safety. each state has the right to defend its own views, but a balanced agreement in this area means first and foremost putting the choices of european society, the concerns of european consumers in terms of food safety and quality and, last but not least, the commercial interests of farmers in the union states first. europe has opted for an agricultural model, the reform of the common agricultural policy confirms this choice, so the trade and investment agreement with the united states must in turn protect this agricultural model and those for whom it is intended: consumers and farmers.
member of the commission. − mr president, when listening to these speeches, i must say that i have to come to the conclusion that i am starting on a very dangerous enterprise, because around every corner there are dangers, difficulties, things that might go wrong, things that we have to protect. many speakers also mentioned the possibilities and opportunities of this agreement, but i do not fully understand why, as the biggest economy in the world and convinced (i think) of our values – mr schulz, for example, said that we should preserve them – we are so afraid in the end to negotiate with a country which is different from us. of course, if it were not, we would not have to negotiate with them, but in any case it is closer to us than a lot of the countries we are negotiating with. that is also very difficult to deny. so i do not see why we cannot have a somewhat more open approach on this. secondly, continuing on the subject of openness, i have no problem saying what we are doing and what we want to achieve and, when not speaking in public, how i want to achieve this. but you are all politicians. so you should know – and i think you do know – that you cannot negotiate openly. you do not do that in your parties either; you do not do that in your constituencies. you need to focus – and yes, of course we have to report on what we are doing, explaining why we are doing things and why we are making some concessions; we will have to make concessions in the course of these negotiations. but you need a certain degree of confidentiality in negotiations. you also need it because your counterpart is asking for it; if not, you cannot negotiate. it is interesting that it seems that there is a copy of one of the drafts of the negotiating mandate. so what? it is a draft. the presidency has, of course, to make sure that they come to an agreement within the council, so they put forward possible ways to get out of any difficulties that we have to deal with. immediately, very vocal members of this parliament say that this is a scandal and that we are traitors and cannot be trusted. of course you can trust me, because in the end you can say ‘no’. you have done so in the past. you said ‘no’ to acta: i am still not convinced that it was the right choice, but you decided to do so and that was how it was. you have the final word. but a parliament is not created to negotiate. it is not its job. i think i have been in a parliament for a longer time than most of you –25 years. maybe there are some who have been in a parliament as long – mr brok has already left, but he has certainly been in a parliament for more than 25 years – but not very many. i have never sought to negotiate an agreement from within a parliament because it simply does not work. what you have to do – and you do it in an eloquent way – is indicate the important points that you want to mention, that you want me to look at and which you will question me about. you will scrutinise me and in the end will vote against me if i do not do that. but a parliament cannot negotiate, because a parliament only exists as a body when it votes. outside of voting you take up individual positions. you cannot negotiate with 20, 30 or 50 different positions. that is not possible. you need to negotiate on the basis of a mandate, and then, of course, you have to demonstrate that you have been following your mandate. many of you have expressed concern about agriculture. mr de castro has disappeared, but i was very pleased when he mentioned that we also have a lot of offensive interests in agriculture. we have: on agrifood and on geographical indications. geographical indications are also protected in the united states, by the way, but in a different way, with trademarks, and there we have certainly very important offensive interests to defend. there will be discussions on gmos, but the results of the negotiation will not be that any gmo can be imported. of course there will be discussions on hormone beef, but the result of the negotiation will not be that it will be possible to import hormone beef into the european market, because we have to negotiate within the framework of the existing legislation. this is exactly the same for the audiovisual sector, which i understand is a very sensitive sector – one of the reasons being, by the way, that as politicians you have a lot to do with this sector. you want to be on tv, just as i have to be on tv and the ministers have to be on tv, so that people know what we are arguing for. this is very sensitive in any parliament, you can be sure of that. but on the other hand, this is a sector where you see things changing in an ever more rapid way. numerical is not just arriving – it is here. it is going to blur all the existing schemes of production, it is going to blur the business models that we deploy here and in other parts of the world. is this really the right moment to say simply that we are not ready to discuss this with (by the way) the biggest producer of audiovisual products in the world? is this wise? i think it is wise to say, look, there are a number of red lines. i explained them very clearly in my introduction. we will look at that. we will look at the result of all this. what does it bring us? i think we need to have a number of discussions with the united states, because what is happening with the delivery systems of content will force us, whether or not we have negotiations with the us, to look at our business models. we will have to. it has become much less anchored anywhere, and traditional politics start from topics and subjects and rules being anchored somewhere. that anchor is disappearing, and i think that is why it is a very good reason to have at least a discussion, one that does not have any risk for you because, based on the treaty of lisbon, in the end a unanimous decision by the council of ministers is required. you need a majority in parliament and you need a unanimous decision in the council. where is the risk in having a discussion on that? i do not understand it. maybe somebody can explain it to me, but i do not grasp it. except of course that, yes, i know there are symbols in this and if ever there was something to be afraid of in politics it is symbols, because when you start talking about symbols you forget about the content.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i think the debate this evening has shown us very clearly that there is a broad sense here in parliament of the opportunity, as well as the challenges, which lie at the heart of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership. i consider this to be a historic opportunity, and without doubt one that we should take full advantage of. the potential of such an agreement was recognised by the european council in february, in particular regarding the contribution that such an agreement can make to our common goal of achieving growth and job creation in the union. i know this view is shared by parliament, not least in the resolution which you will be voting on tomorrow. i have been listening to the many views that have been expressed and we will continue to listen as this process moves forward towards agreeing a mandate for the commission to open negotiations. trade ministers, as i said, will discuss the eu-us mandate at their council meeting on 14 june, and the content of the mandate is ultimately a matter for them. it will be up to the commissioner to update you, as members of the european parliament, on the negotiations as they progress, and i welcome the positive experience to date, which mr moreira and others in the committee have mentioned in terms of the positive, open and transparent relationship that exists between parliament and the commission when it comes to ongoing trade negotiations. i have no doubt that it will be the same and even better as this trade partnership progresses. we are very aware – it is important to stress this, and the commissioner has said it – that parliament ultimately has to approve the final outcome. we approach the start of the negotiations very mindful of this and will continue to keep it in mind throughout. during the debate a number of meps raised the issue of cultural and audiovisual services in the context of the agreement. commissioner de gucht has already responded to this and also gave some details in his introductory remarks. i think that we have to be careful to fully evaluate any potential exclusions from the mandate. i am firmly convinced that eu competence and autonomy in the area of audiovisual policy will not be diminished by the agreement. i think it is important to separate the twin objectives of, firstly, safeguarding the union’s and the member states’ competence and autonomy in the audiovisual field and, secondly, of starting negotiations with the us with a strong negotiating mandate. i believe we can achieve both these objectives, and i am confident that the trade ministers will work – and are working – towards that very clear goal. i want to stress that there are enormous opportunities inherent in this partnership. we are not blind to the fact that, of course, there are challenges – and this debate has clearly highlighted some of those. but the potential gains in both jobs and economic activity are far too attractive, particularly at this time of economic challenge, not to make it a success. a number of speakers have alluded to the fact that we have waited for this opportunity for decades, and the time is right now. we are on the cusp of embarking on what is potentially a historic trade deal. the opportunity is here now and, as mr fjellner said, it may not be here in five or ten years’ time. so we need to seize that opportunity right now, and that is why the irish presidency is devoting so much time and effort – and we will continue to devote all of our effort – to ensuring that we achieve our goal of agreeing a mandate at the trade council in june and that negotiations on this crucial partnership can move forward.
in writing. the transatlantic trade relationship is the backbone of the world economy. together, the european union and the united states account for about half of the world's gdp (47%) and one third of the world's trade flows. every day, almost eur 2 billion worth of goods and services are traded bilaterally, helping to create jobs and grow our economies. the economic links between our economies are deep and diverse, with total investment of over eur 2 trillion. the latest estimates show that an ambitious and comprehensive eu-us agreement could generate, by 2027, total annual gains representing an increase of 0.5% of eu gdp and 0.4% of us gdp. they would equate to an additional annual revenue of eur 86 billion for the eu economy and eur 65 billion for the us economy.
the restoration of tariff preferences for myanmar was a natural step as a series of comprehensive reforms were initiated. the release of the activist aung san suu kyi from house arrest in 2010, which i campaigned for many times, and the holding of free and fair elections in 2012, are small but important steps towards real democratization. the meeting between president barosso and the myanmar leader also led to an agreement to explore the possibility of concluding a bilateral investment agreement. however, i would like to draw attention to some problems that still persist in myanmar: the practice of unpaid forced labour, used mainly by the military, is still widespread in many regions.
the european union should not be held legally responsible for the actions of individual member states. in the case of bilateral investment agreements, each member state shall be responsible for non-compliance with the provisions of the respective acts. this is all the more important since bilateral investment has become a community competence since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. however, the 190 bilateral investment treaties between the member states have a discriminatory effect, as the standards of protection vary from one treaty to another. in addition, there are cases where investors from outside the union enjoy more rights and privileges than those from inside. this is unacceptable as it creates barriers to the single market and discourages intra-community investment.
european territorial cooperation effectively contributes to strengthening links between regions, ensuring a high quality of life for eu citizens. innovative projects and joint problem-solving create opportunities between european citizens in regions with similar development potential. macro-regions are innovative forms of cooperation that put the principles of multilevel governance into practice. they have the capacity to bring together local, regional and community authorities to exploit effectively the common development potential. a successful macroregion must be a first step towards a european model capable of combining smart, inclusive and sustainable growth of european regions. the baltic and danube strategies confirm the appropriateness of the macro-regional initiative for the alps. i believe that territorial cooperation groups play a key role in the implementation of macro-regional strategies. egtcs can become the platforms for implementing territorial development strategies and can help to strengthen cooperation between authorities at different levels. the common development objectives, initiated by the municipalities of the alpine regions, cover areas such as competitiveness, innovation, water, energy, environment, climate, increased accessibility and transport. their implementation will, as with the danube strategy, turn obstacles into advantages and contribute to the prosperity of mountain regions. in the alps today, in the carpathians tomorrow. the commission has made it clear that macro-regions cannot benefit from separate funding, administrative structures or new legislation. but the macro-regional strategy must be encouraged by firm, concrete measures. that is why i propose that projects included in these strategies receive special attention in the framework of the partnership contracts and future operational programmes, with additional advantageous scores. in addition, for macro-regional strategies to bear concrete fruit, effective communication and a continuous exchange of good practices between actors in the regions involved are needed so that the actions undertaken produce measurable results.
i would like to stress the importance of a macro-regional strategy for the alps in the field of agriculture and especially in the field of animal husbandry, the only human activity possible in some mountain areas. a strategy for mountain areas must prioritise agriculture as a key factor in maintaining a vibrant rural environment and in preserving jobs and human dignity in these areas. it must also include the creation of the necessary living conditions for the people living in these areas. secondly, i would like to stress, as many of my colleagues have done, that the carpathian mountains, which extend over the territories of several central and eastern european states, should also be included in a future similar strategy. the carpathian chain shares with the alps the entire list of natural, economic and social challenges. the alps and the carpathians also share the immediate vicinity of the danube, a river which is the subject of a european regional strategy. i therefore believe that the carpathian mountains, which are located in eight countries, six of which are members of the european union, should be the subject of a future strategy closely linked to the alpine strategy.
the importance of the strategies already developed, such as the baltic sea and the danube, was that they provided both an integrated framework for addressing the challenges and opportunities in this region and pilot projects for future macro-regional strategies. i strongly support the idea of joint programmes in the alpine, carpathian and, in particular, black sea regions, an area of recognised strategic importance, given its wealth of natural resources and a potential market of over 350 million consumers. unfortunately, cooperation in the black sea has a rather modest place in the current plans of the european union. but i think we need to be more courageous and play a significant role in this region by creating a european black sea strategy. a possible strategy will bring significant benefits not only to the black sea basin states but also to the union as a whole, thus creating a real bridge between europe and asia.
we have already debated in parliament on several occasions the subject of transport and movement of animals. there have also been many controversies, particularly related to the implications for agriculture, for food supply chains, but also for animal welfare and public health. it should be stressed that animal welfare and public health are in this case closely linked and that truly effective and fair policies in this field must address both subjects in a common vision to achieve the desired results. with regard to pet animals, the spread of infections remains a major concern and the measures included in this proposal will help to strengthen the level of protection against diseases such as rabies. this report will ensure that the legislative gates are closed and the derogations are limited so that the movement of animals that have not been immunised is restricted. much stricter rules on vaccination will also be introduced, especially for young animals and animals coming from outside the european union. the illegal pet trade is a reality that undermines disease control efforts. i am therefore pleased to see that the report contains measures that directly address this issue, such as the imposition of restrictions on the number of animals that can travel with their owners. i welcome the commission's commitment to consider the possibility of a system of animal registration at union level. such a system could help to manage a number of relevant problems, such as the spread of disease, illegal trade, and stray animals. more member states need effective long-term strategies to manage the stray animal phenomenon. the european parliament has already made this recommendation in the form of a written statement and i welcome the fact that this has been included in the current discussion. the report clarifies the roles that pet owners, veterinarians and authorities will have in implementing the new measures, an achievement to be commended. as more effective controls and clearly defined responsibilities are established in this area, improvements are certain.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done to improve the commission's proposal and thus to reflect on the concerns of european union citizens regarding the protection of human health and the welfare of pet animals. however, i regret that the proposal to create a single eu-wide database for pet registration has been rejected. i believe that this register would increase the traceability and reliability of pet welfare information to the public in all member states and would lead to a standardisation of the treatment of animals and national legislation in this field. remember, not only is rabies a dangerous disease for humans and animals, but other diseases can be transmitted from pets to humans. increased travel between member states also entails an increased risk of transmission of these diseases from one member state to another. in this sense, this eu-wide database would allow traceability of animals in the event of an epidemic, would allow veterinarians greater control of a disease by identifying the country of origin or the carrier animal. i am aware of the commission's promise to look into the possibility of introducing a compatible system for the registration of dogs and cats, but i would like to stress the importance of taking this preventive measure in good time for both human safety and the protection of animal health.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the austrian colleagues are very clear that they are animal lovers. i'm very pleased. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. these offences should not affect the care of those taking part in the competition or those who are dependent on their companion animals. the committee considers that it is strictly necessary to simplify the conditions and, in particular, the legal rules at european level for the private transport of animals, in other words non-commercial transport, and therefore considers that it is appropriate to appreciate and support the report of the european parliament, which is taking a concrete step in the field of private animal welfare. this report contains, in addition to veterinary recommendations, not all animals react to the vaccine and therefore, most animals under three months of age must be treated according to medical advice. animals cannot be treated as a commercial good and, therefore, deserve our attention and should be treated as human beings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, in order to apply the provisions of regulation no 450/2008 as effectively as possible, it is necessary to postpone the entry into force of certain articles until 1 november 2013. the modernised customs code creates a new electronic customs environment. the new code thus creates a common basis for the application of customs provisions existing in all 27 member states. the legislative act also ensures increased convergence between the information systems of the competent authorities of the member states. the modernised customs code will facilitate trade, but it will also play an important role in preventing certain external threats that the european union may face.
in writing. − the objective of this new code is to facilitate trade while guaranteeing a high level of border security. this new code integrates the customs procedures common to the member states, while also strengthening the convergence between the 27 customs administrations' computer systems. the rules on customs declarations and the placing of goods under a customs procedure will be modernised and streamlined and, in particular, customs declarations will be required to be made electronically as a rule and to contain only one type of simplified declaration. in order to reduce the risk to the community, its citizens and trading partners, the harmonised application of customs control by the member states will be based on a common risk management framework and an electronic system for its implementation.
in writing. − since 1971, the european union has given exporters from developing countries the opportunity to pay lower customs duties on some or all of their products exported to the eu. this gives these exporters vital access to eu markets, helping to grow their national economies. since 2011, myanmar/burma has made considerable efforts to further open up and reform, including on forced labour. the progress made by burma remains fragile. i believe it is important that the measures proposed contribute to lasting peace and positive developments. future trade and investment activities by european companies in myanmar/burma should therefore promote the highest standards of corporate integrity and social responsibility, in which transparency is essential.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because myanmar/burma has made significant efforts to implement reforms in line with the conventions of the international labour organisation, including the elimination of forced labour. in this context and in accordance with the legal provisions, the gsp preferences should be re-established. however, the situation in myanmar/burma with regard to forced labour remains fragile and needs to be further monitored. i believe that european companies operating in this country should uphold the highest standards of labour integrity.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the union acquired exclusive competence for the conclusion of international agreements on investment protection. the union, like the member states, is already party to the energy charter treaty, which provides for investment protection. many investment disputes are resolved before they actually reach arbitration. in order to make progress in developing a coherent eu investment policy, the commission should be notified of the settlement of all disputes arising in the context of eu agreements.
i voted in favour of the report because it will ensure a high level of protection for both public and animal health. the implementation of preventive health measures will also be encouraged. i would like to support the proposal that the agreement should be extended to the european economic area for the same security reasons. at the same time, standardising the animal health certificate will make the whole process easier at european level, as well as the burden on national authorities. it is important that the certificate is issued by a veterinarian authorised by the competent body. the sanctions for breach of the regulation are appropriate, as we must take into account that we are discussing public health issues.
in writing. − facilitating the travel of pet owners, accompanied by them, within or outside the european union must be done with the guarantee of ensuring transport safety, human public health and animal health. it is of the utmost importance that all those involved in the non-commercial movement of pet animals - whether animal owners, veterinarians or the services authorised to carry out the control of these acts - are made aware of the provisions of this legislation in a simplified, easy-to-understand form. i believe that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur limit the risk of introducing certain diseases, such as rabies, to certain areas of the european union. this type of prevention, which is achieved exclusively by guaranteeing a special traffic regime, carefully monitored and respected by all the actors involved, provides a guarantee to pet owners and is an additional reason for them to comply with the legal framework in force. it's for their own good, but it's also for the health of their pets.
in writing. − this regulation harmonises the health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals within the european union, while also strengthening the rules applicable to animals coming from third countries. the objective of this regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health while facilitating the movement of pet animals accompanied by their owners. the veterinary requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals - dogs, cats and ferrets - have as their main objective the prevention of the spread of rabies.
in writing. − we need a european union-wide free and safe movement of pet animals. to this end, the revision of the existing regulation (ec) no 998/2003 is necessary in order to align and fully adapt the old comitology measures to the new articles 290 and 291 tfeu and to clarify certain aspects of the regulation. the new regulation will ensure a high level of safety with regard to the risks to human and animal health posed by the non-commercial movement of pet animals and will remove unjustified obstacles to such movement. the proposed regulation removes some of the confusion of the past with a clear set of rules for pet owners, veterinarians, law enforcement staff, competent authorities and other actors involved in the non-commercial movement of pet animals. in addition, the rapporteur has sought to improve the usefulness and ease of application of this regulation by proposing a clearer structure and methodology for the completion of identification documents, which will improve traceability, allow more effective control of the risk of disease spread and prevent risks related to illegal trade.
in writing. − i believe that pet owners should be facilitated in their travel within the union or to third countries, while respecting a high level of safety with regard to potential risks to human and animal health.
i support the report and in particular the proposal to extend the time limit for the clinical examination of animals intended for marketing in order to certify their health. i also support the adaptation of the deadline from 24 hours to 48 hours as recommended by the world organisation for animal health. the amendment was introduced following numerous referrals from the sector. the reason is that operators do not have time to carry out the clinical examination of the animals before their transport. the animal health certificate needs to be issued by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority. i am glad that the union pays particular attention to animal health in the member states and that the marketing of animals is a matter which must be treated seriously in view of the direct consequences for public health.
in writing. − the clinical examination of animals imported into the union or involved in intra-eu trade is a guarantee that the animals are fit and healthy for the intended transport. whether it is dogs, cats or domestic animals entering such a trade, their examination by an authorised person 24 hours before the actual transport is carried out can only provide a guarantee that neither the beneficiary of those animals nor the animals will suffer as a result of the commercial transport.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the economic crisis has brought to light the major structural problems facing some of the member states. the situation of the cypriot banking system is a wake-up call that we cannot ignore. we need to take into account the effects of reforms in the euro area countries when making decisions at european level to avoid situations similar to the present one. the new mechanisms proposed complement the existing structures for the surveillance of economic and budgetary policy. they also strengthen financial discipline throughout the union. i too look forward to the publication of the legislative proposals that will follow the two communications. finally, i would like to stress the importance of clarifying whether participation in the convergence and competitiveness instrument is voluntary or compulsory.
in writing. − the commission has worked to make further progress on the union's macroeconomic governance on the basis of the two legislative six-packages and two acts respectively. the creation of an implementation mechanism based on incentives, aimed at increasing solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness, must be accompanied by new elements for economic policy coordination. more systematic integration of ex-ante coordination and policy-making processes at union level needs to be based on sound official statistical data. consolidated data on the public accounts of the union, the member states and local and regional authorities are needed to further budgetary coordination in the union.
in writing. − the economic and monetary union represents a major step in the integration of eu economies. it involves the coordination of economic and fiscal policies, a common monetary policy, and a common currency, the euro. the creation of an incentive-based enforcement mechanism aiming at increasing solidarity, cohesion and competitiveness must go hand in hand with additional layers on economic policy coordination. in this regard, it is necessary to introduce a new instrument such as the convergence and competitiveness instrument, which should be based on conditionality, solidarity and convergence. this should apply to all euro area member states and be open to all member states of the union while taking into account the stronger interdependence of euro area member states. this new instrument should be a vehicle for an increased budgetary capacity and be geared towards conditional support of structural reforms, thus increasing competitiveness, growth and social cohesion, ensuring closer coordination of economic policies and sustained convergence of the economic performance of the member states, and addressing imbalances and structural divergences. the measures taken should not have negative effects on social inclusion, worker’s rights, health care and other social issues, even in the short term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of economic and monetary union because i believe that there is a need for better coordination of economic policies at european union level. however, they believe that to emerge from the current recession, the commission's new proposals on macroeconomic governance will need to focus on growth and solidarity and promote social inclusion, protecting workers' rights and health systems. the future convergence and competitiveness instrument will therefore not be able to rely on reducing wage costs, but on increasing purchasing power.
in writing. − in view of the close trade and cooperation relations in other areas of the economy between the countries of the union and their interdependence, i welcome the proposal that the new convergence and competitiveness instrument (cci) to be created at union level should be applicable not only to the euro area countries but also accessible to the other non-euro area countries. this would benefit all countries if the icc would conditionably support structural reforms to increase competitiveness, economic growth and social cohesion in eu countries.
i voted for this resolution. according to the latest figures, there are 1.5 million syrian refugees since the beginning of hostilities, and the number is growing. this increases the pressure on neighbouring countries, which in turn may face instability, especially lebanon. but i am also concerned that the number of people displaced inside syria is increasing. although large amounts of aid were provided, much of it ended up in areas controlled by the assad regime. in this context, it is not known how this aid will be used and whether it will actually reach those who need it most. the syrian crisis is turning into a real humanitarian tragedy and, in the absence of an international consensus, the syrian people are bearing the consequences.
in writing. − the use of violence by the syrian authorities against the syrian civilian population, in particular the targeted killing of children and women and mass executions, are serious human rights violations, authorised and ordered crimes against humanity that must be condemned. the violent repression of syrian protesters has resulted in a continuous influx of refugees into neighboring countries. in may this year, the mediterranean region officially registered over 1.2 million refugees from syria, adding to the burden on neighbouring countries and fuelling tensions in the region. the syrian government must withdraw its army from the occupied cities without delay and immediately release all detained protesters, political prisoners, human rights defenders and journalists. i believe that syria must undergo democratic reform, which takes account of respect for human rights and freedoms, in particular those of ethnic, religious and cultural minorities.
in writing. - countries that have so far received over 100 000 refugees each are turkey, jordan and, more recently, lebanon. there are about 43 000 refugees in iraq, of which about 35 000 in northern kurdistan. in north africa, especially in egypt, some 7,000 refugees have been registered, but the egyptian authorities estimate the actual number at 150,000, of whom very few have been registered. as in any protracted conflict and crisis, the syrian refugee problem is growing in scale, and the involvement of specialized international bodies, such as the un high commissioner for refugees, and the mobilization of ngos to this end, is more than necessary.
in writing. − i welcome parliament's involvement in identifying solutions to this serious humanitarian problem. i would point out that support for refugees will have to continue after their return to their home country, with a view to their reintegration, especially given that 60% of the more than 1.5 million refugees are young people or children.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it is well known that many dictators in the arab spring countries have amassed impressive fortunes, and some of them have kept huge sums in accounts in the european union. i believe that after identifying the accounts, the money must be returned as soon as possible to the people of those countries. handing them over to the people of libya, egypt or tunisia is a way of doing justice and increasing the transparency of the banking system in the european union. in the case of gaddafi alone, it's estimated that he had assets worth over $160 billion. such huge sums could be used to stimulate economic growth and employment. the arab spring countries are in a difficult economic situation, and the return of the money could help stabilize them.
in writing. − the arab spring countries in transition are facing major political, economic and social challenges. the recovery of assets stolen by former regimes is both a strongly political issue for these states, due to the need to restore justice in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law, and an important economic and social issue, as the funds are needed to stabilise the economy, create jobs and generate economic growth in these countries. one of the most serious problems facing these countries is the illegal appropriation of state assets by corrupt former officials. the european parliament therefore calls on the union and the member states to support the effective recovery of assets and to support countries' efforts to restore their judicial systems capable of fighting corruption. the european union must step up its efforts to facilitate the return to the peoples of the arab spring countries of assets illegally seized by former dictators and their henchmen.
in writing. − the return of misappropriated assets stolen by former dictators and their regimes to the transitioning arab spring countries is a moral and legal imperative and has a significant political stake, given the implications of restoring justice and accountability in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law, and in the spirit of the eu's political commitment and credibility, and thus represents a key dimension of the union's partnership with its southern neighbour, especially egypt, libya and tunisia. for the arab spring countries, the recovery of stolen assets is also of economic and social importance, as funds are needed to stabilise the economy, create jobs and generate economic growth in those countries, which are facing major economic challenges.
in writing. − i support the proposal of some eu and non-eu member states to publish a guide detailing the national legal systems for asset recovery by arab spring countries in transition. in this way, the requesting countries will be able to understand what legal solutions exist, what information is available, what investigations can be carried out and how to proceed to achieve effective asset recovery through mutual legal assistance.
in writing. − the authorities in bosnia and herzegovina must encourage the development of a media that is independent and diverse, free from political interference and free from ethnic fragmentation and polarization. i believe that the existence of a free media is a basic element for a stable democracy. another important aspect is to increase the overall quality of education, to adapt it to the demands of the internal and external labour market. it is therefore necessary for the authorities of the two countries to address the shortcomings in vocational training in order to attract foreign direct investment and ensure the start of accreditation of educational institutions and the full functioning of the agencies dealing with the recognition of diplomas.
i voted in favour of the resolution because, although the european commission has repeatedly recommended the opening of accession negotiations with fyrom, unfortunately this has not yet happened. the name issue must be resolved as soon as possible so as not to jeopardize the reforms that have been carried out so far. the solution will have to take account of both greece's concerns and fyrom's interest in advancing the process of european integration. i personally support the enlargement of the union and nato to the western balkans as long as a number of basic principles are respected. one of them would be the protection of ethnic minorities, and fyrom has made important progress in this regard. the fair treatment of the romanian ethnic minority in fyrom is an essential condition for fulfilling the political criteria.
in writing. − good neighbourly relations are an essential component of the eu accession process and i appreciate the country's overall constructive role in relation to other candidate countries. i believe that the best way to build a multiethnic society is through strengthened political dialogue and an educational system that promotes the values of a multiethnic society. the development of a political culture that benefits from an independent, pluralistic and inter-ethnic civil society is also essential for the democratic progress of the country. it is important that civil society organisations are strengthened, become independent of political interests and step up joint projects for mutual benefit with organisations in neighbouring countries and, more generally, across the european union.
in writing. − i support this resolution because i believe that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has earned the right to be invited by the council to open accession negotiations with the european union. the european commission has provided positive recommendations and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made significant progress and implemented the required reforms, but several countries are making it difficult to start negotiations on bilateral grounds that are out of the european interest. the country's accession to the eu would be beneficial for the stability and development of south-east europe, and this step could also provide a positive impetus to other countries in the region aspiring to the european union.
mr president, the agreement which the european union and the united states are about to negotiate is undoubtedly a great opportunity for two great challenges which we have especially in the european union, which are growth and employment. together - it was just said here - we account for almost 50% of gdp and a third of world trade. it is an ambitious agreement, but it will have to overcome important differences, both in terms of legislative frameworks and values. sensitive issues include data protection, intellectual property rights and the cultural and audiovisual sector. on this last point, i must say that it is not only the regulatory frameworks that differ, but also the dimensions of the european and american markets. and in this context of clear dominance by the united states, the european union must ensure that its cultural diversity is protected by supporting and promoting this sector. that is why, 'since i clearly supported the negotiations', i voted for the cultural exception in parliament's recommendations and in the agreement.
i voted for the resolution because a trade agreement with the united states would benefit both sides. however, i believe that those industries which are vital to the european union will have to be protected. but such cases should be the exception rather than the rule in negotiations. the two markets are well integrated and the effects of the agreement will be felt immediately. attracting investment that creates jobs must be the main objective for the european union in these negotiations. at the same time, the freer access to the us market would bring additional gains for european companies. at a time when european industry is in decline, we must expand the markets for european products. under a comprehensive agreement, the presence of american firms in the union will be strengthened, and unemployment, especially among young people, could be reduced.
in writing. − i strongly support the recommendation to launch negotiations between the european union and the united states of america for a comprehensive trade and investment agreement, as this would allow the untapped potential of a genuine transatlantic market to be exploited. such a partnership would bring economic benefits to both parties, while contributing to the global economic recovery. the agreement provides an opportunity for the two actors to explore new ways of removing unnecessary regulatory barriers that hinder trade and investment, thereby boosting the potential for smart, robust, sustainable and balanced economic growth. i believe that the future negotiation process must be as transparent as possible, and that the parties involved should therefore participate actively and present initiatives and relevant information which the european commission can then use to conclude an agreement that is as beneficial as possible for the union and its citizens.
in writing. − the eu and the usa share common values, comparable legal systems, and high – albeit different – standards of labour, consumer and environmental protection. the eu and the usa must exploit the full potential of closer economic cooperation in order to leverage the benefits of international trade in terms of overcoming the economic crisis and achieving a sustained global economic recovery. the agreement with the usa would support the creation of high-quality jobs for european workers, directly benefit european consumers, open up new opportunities for eu companies, in particular smes, to sell goods and provide services in the us, ensure full access to public procurement markets in the us, and improve opportunities for eu investments in the us. also, it is important to strengthen the development and enforcement of labour and environmental laws and policies and promote the core standards and benchmarks laid down by the ilo, as well as decent jobs and sustainable development. furthermore, in the political context, it is necessary for the usa to analyse and make further steps in order to support romania's efforts for inclusion in the visa waiver programme and in order to contribute more to the good economic and trade relations between the two countries.
in writing. − the signing of a transatlantic trade partnership would benefit both the european union and the united states of america. an agreement between these major players in the field of trade would, in a period dominated by the global economic crisis, allow the revival of industrial activity and increase the flow of exports. these factors would lead to sustainable economic growth, increased competitiveness and, above all, new job creation.
in writing. - i have followed my group's line on this paragraph. the alde amendment removes the reference to the exclusion of the audiovisual sector from the agreement. i voted against this amendment because i believe that we must preserve and protect our cultural diversity at european level. i am in favour of an agreement with the united states, but the audiovisual sector is far too sensitive and important for the european industry to be included in the future agreement with the usa.
in writing. − economic relations between the european union and the united states are central to transatlantic cooperation and it is necessary for the two sides to develop common approaches to trade, investment and global trade issues, including standards, norms and regulations, in order to develop a broader transatlantic vision and a common set of strategic objectives. on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that there is still untapped potential for transatlantic cooperation, which would bring about a new stage in the development of new jobs at transatlantic level and stimulate the potential for smart, robust, sustainable and balanced economic growth.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it allows the european union and its representatives to approach the future negotiations with the united states in the framework of the negotiations for a trade and investment agreement with a sense of calm. this resolution shows how strongly the european parliament is committed to not including the agricultural sector, the audiovisual sector and the defence sector in the negotiations. i therefore vote in favour of this european parliament resolution on the basis of safeguarding its strategic areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and support the calls in its text for a balanced agreement on trade in agricultural products. the european union must defend its agricultural model, based on quality and built around concerns for consumer health, food safety, etc. the agreement must also have an important component of supporting the commercial interests of european agri-food producers and processors.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the alpine strategy can be a useful tool for jointly addressing regional development issues in the union. for example, more than two years after the launch of the danube strategy, which i strongly supported, the results are starting to show. whether it is transport or tourism infrastructure, there is good cooperation between the countries involved in the strategy. the best example is the calafat-vidin bridge, which will open in june. i therefore believe that the alpine strategy can be modelled on the danube strategy or the baltic sea strategy. however, the funding problem will certainly persist, as the danube strategy does not benefit from a separate funding line and, in the context of the crisis, the funds available to national authorities are limited.
in writing. − macro-regional strategies aiming at a better use of existing resources in a given territory have proved to be effective tools for the danube and baltic sea regions. i therefore believe that the experience gained should be used to develop such strategies for other regions of the union, such as the alps. the potential of this region must be exploited, as the alps are of interest both at european and international level. to do this, several issues facing the macro-region need to be addressed: the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection and economic and social development. i believe that a future macro-regional strategy for the alps should coordinate existing eu funds, particularly in the context of cohesion policy, with the aim of implementing projects that aim to address common challenges. i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. − human activities affect the functioning and use of land in various ways and therefore i believe that a community strategy is needed to help protect the agricultural areas most threatened by, among other things, land-use change, contaminated industrial areas, waterproofing or soil erosion. the overall protection of soil and its environmental, economic, social, ecological and cultural functions is a prerequisite for addressing key international environmental challenges, such as mitigating and adapting to climate change, ensuring sufficient fresh water, combating groundwater depletion, preventing natural and man-made disasters, protecting biodiversity and combating desertification, steppe formation and deforestation.
in writing. i voted for the resolution on the macro-regional strategy for the alps because it is a major european issue. the strategic place of the alps at the heart of europe must be valued as an important meeting place for europeans and as an important hub for community trade. this european parliament resolution, which aims at territorial cohesion in this region, is fully in line with the objectives of the european union, as it underlines the need for different peoples to live together and leads to the development of infrastructure in this region. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. − i support the idea of a macro-regional strategy for the alps and appreciate that it must have agriculture and, in particular, animal husbandry as its central element. i also believe that such a strategy should include the carpathian mountain range, which runs through six eu member states and shares the same natural, social and economic challenges as the alpine area.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i am very concerned about the tragic situation of the workers in bangladesh. although the authorities have committed themselves to implementing stricter legislation on the protection of workers, the results have not been forthcoming. moreover, it took another tragedy and widespread protests for the government to take concrete action. i find it incredible that the owner of the building that collapsed a few weeks ago would encourage people to go to work in that location, even though he knew the danger was imminent. i think in bangladesh people have come to work in conditions that are typical of the slave period, and i'm not just talking about the very low wages they get, but the way they are treated and the risks they face every day.
in writing. − these accidents tragically highlight the lack of safety standards in factories and prove that urgent action is needed to improve the implementation of the ilo's core labour standards and to ensure greater compliance with the principles of corporate social responsibility by multinational textile distribution companies. the bangladesh building safety and fire protection agreement signed by trade unions, ngos and some 40 multinational textile distribution companies, which was finalized on 15 may 2013 and aims to improve safety standards in factories, is a move i want to welcome. i consider that this agreement should be implemented fully and in a timely manner.
in writing. − there are more than 5 000 textile factories in bangladesh, employing approximately 3.5 million people, bangladesh being the world’s second-largest exporter of ready-made clothes. 1 127 people died on 24 april 2013 in the garment factory collapse at the rana plaza building in dhaka in bangladesh, making it the worst tragedy in the history of the global garment industry. the conditions in such textile factories are often poor, with little regard for labour rights such as those recognised under the main ilo conventions and often with little or no regard for safety. the commission should investigate bangladesh’s compliance with these conventions and the tariff preferences should not be granted if the labour conditions are not improved. the commission should actively promote mandatory responsible business conduct among eu companies operating abroad, with a special focus on ensuring strict compliance with all their legal obligations, in particular international standards and rules in the areas of human rights, labour and the environment. also, an important role can be played by workers and trade unions, for example through the continued development of worker-led safety committees in all factories and by educating workers on how they can protect their rights and safety, including their right to refuse unsafe work.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because accidents in factories in bangladesh have increased considerably in recent years. the multinational textile companies operating in bangladesh have ignored the summonses and resolutions issued by the european parliament on this subject for too long. i consider the passivity and indifference of foreign companies and local authorities in the field of workplace safety to be unacceptable. it is regrettable that it took over 1 100 people to lose their lives as a result of the rana plaza building collapse for an agreement on building safety and fire protection to be signed by multinationals and trade unions. i hope bangladesh will immediately implement the action plan it has committed to reforming labour laws and increasing controls in factories on its territory.
i would like to propose that we change today's agenda on the basis of rule 140 of the rules of procedure and, in accordance with the agreement reached a month ago, i propose that we have only the vote on the resolution on guantanamo, because the debate was held a month ago and i understand that there is an agreement among colleagues to organise only the vote today.
i condemn the secret execution of mohammad afzal guru on 9 february 2013, after a seven-year moratorium. i also condemn the manner of his execution and his burial within the prison walls. the trial in which mohammad afzal guru was sentenced to death was not fair, including the right of defence. in addition, his conviction was based on the prevention of terrorism act, which does not respect international law and was also repealed in 2004. we are in a period defined as the period of struggle against the death penalty, with 154 states having already abolished the death penalty, de jure or de facto, and also following un resolutions to the same effect. i call on india to no longer execute anyone and to immediately introduce a moratorium on the death penalty and to ban it by law.
two things i'd like to point out. first of all, this is the second resolution on the death penalty in india that we are adopting in this mandate. the first spoke of the conviction of devinder pal singh, whose plea for clemency was rejected in march this year. once again, as we did when we first discussed it, we want to send a signal to the indian authorities, telling them, reaffirming the common position in the union on the death penalty, which we consider deeply inhumane, a violation of human dignity. the second thing i want to say is about the protests that followed the secret execution of afzal guru and the way they were responded to. all of this has highlighted the fragility of the kashmir peace process and, at a time when india is seeking to strengthen relations with its neighbours, destabilising the situation in kashmir is not a good thing, which is why we encourage the parties involved to work together towards a diplomatic solution to the situation in the region.
this is not the first time we've discussed the need to abolish the death penalty in india and in over 40 other countries. it is an effort that we must not stop, because the death penalty is a violation of the fundamental human right to life, it is a cruel, degrading treatment that does not prevent crime any more effectively than other punishments, and the fact that 154 states have de facto or de jure abolished this punishment is encouraging. the execution of mohammad afzal guru is an opportunity to renew the call on india to bring its legislation and judicial practice in line with international human rights standards to obtain due respect in this respect as well. it is unfortunate that this country with its impressive rise and development still keeps almost 1,500 people on death row. we therefore renew our appeal to the indian authorities to withdraw the executions already carried out and to abolish the death penalty.
on behalf of the s&d group, i strongly condemn the political verdict in the victoria ingabire case and the inhumane way in which she is being politically and physically eliminated. this case reflects a situation in the overall undemocratic rwanda, where opponents of the kagame regime are harassed, intimidated and persecuted. it is unacceptable for a president re-elected with 93% of the vote to resort to shutting down his opponents. ms ingabire was nominated in 2012 for the european parliament's sakharov prize for freedom of thought. she is in prison now for daring to defend that very freedom of conscience. it is a gesture of defiance on the part of the rwandan authorities, both towards democratic values and international norms and towards the european union. we also call on the european commission and the member states to use all the persuasive and coercive measures at their disposal to force the regime of general paul kagame to ensure the impartial re-trial of this case and to allow the existence of political opposition.
the rwandan judicial system has violated all international standards in the trial of ms victoire ingabire. she was accused of revisionism and high treason, and her trial was based on falsified evidence and confessions extracted under torture. a witness stated that rwandan intelligence fabricated evidence against ms. ingabire. four witnesses for the prosecution and the defense testified that their testimony was falsified. victoire ingabire is a well-known politician in rwanda and was prevented from running for president in the 2010 elections. his lordship is not the only politician persecuted by the rwandan authorities. it is scandalous that president kagame of rwanda allows himself any action against his opponents. rwanda is a member of the cotonou agreement, which makes funding conditional on the country's democratization. these actions of the judiciary demonstrate that rwanda is not democratizing. in these circumstances, the european commission must suspend the funds for assistance to rwanda.
my colleagues mentioned the comparison between victoire ingabire and aung san suu kyi, and also mentioned that we are talking today about a person nominated last year for the sakharov prize. i would like to say that we do not want to, here, in any way, disregard the independence of the rwandan judiciary. on the contrary, we want to react because there are clear indications that the trial of victoire ingabire was politically motivated. this is a trial that has violated international fair trial standards, violated the presumption of innocence, relied on evidence obtained through coercion and even torture, and used vague indictments under national law. all of this is obviously very concerning. that is why i join my colleagues in calling on the rwandan authorities to ensure a fair trial in appeal for victoire ingabire and to investigate allegations of torture and human rights violations. before the vote i will ask to introduce an oral amendment.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the judicial system is crucial to moving rwanda towards the rule of law. the european union is therefore actively involved in this process, both through our cooperation instruments and at the highest political level, together with many member states and the international community. there's been progress. rwanda has begun to reform its criminal code with human rights aspects, such as abolishing the death penalty, allowing abortion in narrowly limited cases, and decriminalizing homosexuality. conditions in prisons are also improving. these developments have paved the way, inter alia, for the resumption of cooperation on judicial reform, extradition and referral of cases between rwandan and other courts, including the international criminal tribunal for rwanda, the european court of human rights and also national european courts: this applies in particular to certain cases relating to the genocide in that country. however, the process is ongoing and not complete. a number of controversial laws still need to be clarified: the law on genocide ideology, the media laws and the laws on freedom of association. the european union has followed the judicial proceedings in the case of mrs victoire ingabire, which is being discussed today, with great attention. after ms ingabire was sentenced to eight years in prison last october for high treason and denying the 1994 genocide against the tutsi, her lawyers and the prosecutor immediately appealed. the supreme court of rwanda has not yet ruled. we expect his judgment within a reasonable time. in this context, we are committed to and advocate for the full independence of the rwandan judiciary and also for ms ingabire to be able to fully exercise her rights to a fair appeal process. we regularly raise these concerns with the authorities in kigali and the government there, also in conjunction with our member states. we will be monitoring the situation and the next steps and developments with great sensitivity. while we can accept that political actors in rwanda, whoever they may be, must not ignore the scale and consequences of the genocide against the tutsi, it is equally crucial to achieve genuine reconciliation in the country on the basis of a fair and objective justice. these are the cornerstones for the development of a free political system, for the overcoming of the recurring divisions in this rwandan society and for the avoidance of setbacks in the ongoing process of stabilizing the rule of law and society in rwanda as a whole. the water management potential, which my colleague andreas schwab mentioned, is considerable. in our cooperation with individual african union member states, at union level and on the ground, we advise these countries to activate their potential. my colleague, mr piebalgs, is in charge of this. the european union must be ready to give its advice and its action.
mr president, i have an oral amendment concerning recital k. the reason is a factual error, because the name of the defence witness mentioned is michel habimana. this is the correct name.
human trafficking, drugs or weapons, tax evasion, corruption, money laundering destroy people, communities and every rule. and it costs money, a lot of money. the un has estimated that criminal assets are about two trillion dollars -- two trillion dollars. after dozens of hearings in the crim commission, one conclusion is clear: the only solution to slow down and stop organized crime groups is the confiscation of money from crime by judges in civil or criminal proceedings, even in the absence of a conviction, a punishment of a criminal nature. let us look at the member states which understood, many years ago, that this was the only solution. the priority is getting the money. and they do this through civil proceedings, which are quicker, without necessarily pursuing the sentencing of the individuals concerned to prison. for example, the united kingdom, which has such procedures, confiscated in 2011 and 2012 in civil cases about 14 million pounds and assets of over 300 million pounds. if we don't pursue money first, we lose the fight against organized crime. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. mr president, the social consequences of the economic crisis, such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, have reached record levels. to give european citizens the chance to find a job and to ensure adequate social protection, governments need to pay more attention to social investment. increased productivity, employment and social inclusion will boost economic growth while reducing pressure on social protection spending. the european social entrepreneurship fund, the european social fund and the financial instruments are real solutions at the fingertips of the member states to improve access to financial markets for social enterprises, a growing sector that will make a real contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. and last but not least, we need urgent action to tackle youth unemployment in europe. in this respect, i support the proposal to allocate €6 billion, over a seven-year plan, starting in january 2014, to help young people find a job.
europe's progress depends on the realisation of a knowledge-based economy, and this is based on a strong protection of property rights. we are faced with two problems here: on the one hand, the national laws of the member states on the protection of property rights still differ greatly and we have to work towards harmonizing these laws; on the other hand, we cannot help but notice that there are many counterfeit, pirated and imported products on the markets in europe and here, obviously, the customs authorities of the member states must put a stop to this phenomenon. i agree with the proposed measures and stress the need for the culprits, those who import such counterfeit and pirated products, to bear all the costs of identifying, retaining and disposing of these products.
on 1 january 2014, all european union countries are obliged to lift restrictions on access to the european labour market for romanian and bulgarian citizens. unfortunately, from time to time, there are real campaigns against romanian citizens, and my speech expresses concern about the way they are treated in some member states, which are looking for ways to continue to discriminate against romanians on the pretext that they are poor. the replacement of the old iron curtain with a curtain of poverty, which would keep the poor from the south and the east, would be the strongest sign of the failure of the project of european reunification. it's much more productive, i think, to reduce poverty. europe, even in crisis, has the means. unfortunately, populist xenophobic discourse, which brings votes faster than anti-poverty efforts, will produce anti-european resentments and reactions, with unpredictable and difficult-to-manage consequences.
i refer to the republic of moldova. the republic of moldova is very important to the european union and we do not want it to get lost in the riddles of the transition from communism to democracy, a transition which we know is very difficult and we want democracy and prosperity to be irreversibly established in the republic of moldova. the installation of the pro-european government on 30 may 2013 is a success and i congratulate all the political actors who contributed and of course i congratulate the new prime minister yuri leancă and the new speaker of the parliament, igor corman. these days, as we speak, the negotiations for the association agreement with the european union are being finalised, so that it can be initialled at the vilnius summit in november 2013. i ask the european commission to make a statement to this effect to the cooperation council in luxembourg on 25 june 2013. at the end of may, the commission will publish the report on the implementation of the last phase, the second phase, of the visa liberalisation action plan. if this report is positive, i ask the council to announce the abolition of visas at the vilnius summit in november 2013.
the commission has already provided us with a thorough report on the work of our colleague karima delli's own initiative report, by organising preparatory public hearings. this document is a substitute, it covers the whole question in detail, perhaps too much detail, and therefore it may have included issues such as taxation, which we cannot really support, since it is a matter for the member states. the relevance and relevance of the report are further underlined by the current complex crisis situation, as healthy housing is a prerequisite for a healthy life. according to statistics from the world health organization, poor housing conditions kill about 100,000 people a year. there are huge differences between member states in terms of social housing. we can only regret that this is an individual report.
in writing. the economic and financial context of recent years has affected the most vulnerable social groups, with many families becoming homeless due to the inability to pay their mortgages. people paid for the greed of the banks and that's not fair. moreover, austerity measures have deepened this economic and social disaster, as social benefits, including housing heating benefits, have been reduced or eliminated. it is our duty, especially in these difficult times, to seek to create minimum living conditions for our own citizens, including by facilitating access to social housing that is accessible not only to the most disadvantaged social categories, but also to the middle class. i think it is fundamental that the european union should define a framework for action to support social housing by providing financial support that is directed mainly at the local level. it is also very important that future structural funds provide for eligibility for funding for measures such as social housing or investments in the thermal renovation of housing. last but not least, i believe that member states should also consider introducing a reduced vat rate for the construction of social housing.
in writing. in the context of the debate on housing, an area where member states are lacking, the positive impact of social housing investment on the local economy in terms of growth and job creation was mentioned. this impact is undeniable and needs to be taken into account in european and national strategies, alongside measures to improve the energy efficiency of homes, which also play an important role. this approach goes beyond the traditional framework of the housing debate, which is often limited to its social role of supporting families in need. this type of approach allows the debate to be extended to housing for professionals working in rural areas: doctors, pharmacists, teachers, agricultural specialists. i believe that investing in housing for housing would attract more and better trained specialists to the countryside, which would also contribute to economic growth and the maintenance of a vibrant rural environment. many member states, such as romania, want to be able to invest in such specialist work accommodation with the help of european funds, which should be taken into account in future european policies.
educational and professional mobility is an important objective of european policies. recent studies show that there are significant gender differences in labour mobility in the european union, which favour stereotypes and encourage gender discrimination in the labour market. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, the ability of women to move freely within the eu and to choose a job has been severely affected, with unemployment rates of 10.7% and 22.7% for women under 25. given that women are more exposed than men to social risks throughout their lives, i believe that education and occupational mobility policy should be designed and implemented in the context of integrated social employment policies at european level, with the main objective of combating discrimination based on sex, race, origin, religion, age or health.
the difficult economic situation in the union is affecting women's professional mobility. this has a strong negative effect: it creates the conditions for gender discrimination. women are offered low-paid jobs that lack prestige and do not help develop their skills. in addition, women face another obstacle: reconciling family and professional life, which we all know is difficult. women in romania have an additional problem, because they still face restrictions on the labour market in nine member states. a uniform approach to the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications at member state level is necessary. we also need a strategy for the vocational counselling of women, but also for the harmonization of national laws on the social protection of women with children.
as long as state aid is used responsibly, it can help to maintain and even increase the competitiveness of the union's economy. they believe that it should be directed towards less developed regions and sectors that can contribute to economic growth. at the same time, their modernisation must take into account that we are in a period of crisis and that the number one priority is to reduce the unemployment rate, especially among young people. since budgetary resources are limited in most member states, they should be used as efficiently as possible. i therefore support simplifying the rules in this area, but also better informing the national authorities about reporting obligations. procedures would be more transparent and aid would be granted more quickly.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome mr vlasák’s report on regional policy as part of wider state support schemes. i am glad to note that the report initiated by the committee on regional development also takes into account the views of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on employment and social affairs. the report identifies issues which the commission also considers to be important when defining the rules of the regional aid guidelines for 2014-2020. the aim of the guidelines is to promote the development of disadvantaged regions in europe, while ensuring that the aid does not lead to distortions of trade and competition in the internal market. these guidelines should allow the commission to focus on cases involving large amounts of aid that could have a significant impact on the internal market. member states could spend small amounts on aid without ex ante commission scrutiny within the limits set by the general block exemption regulation, which will be extended both in terms of the categories of measures and the amounts of aid. as the report mentions, ensuring consistency between eu cohesion policy and state aid policy is of key importance. therefore, the revision of all state aid rules in line with the principles of state aid modernisation will help to ensure that cohesion policy is implemented efficiently. however, it has to be noted that eu cohesion policy and eu state aid control policy are two different policies. they need to be coherent, but not identical. another element of the reform raised in the report is the more restrictive approach on aid to large enterprises, such as investment projects in ‘c’ areas. these investments are more likely to lead to distortions of competition and are a worse use of public money than investment in smes. the precise conditions are still being discussed. having considered the conclusions of the european council of february 2013 and listened to the many stakeholders, the decision was taken to slightly increase the overall population coverage level from that contained in the initial proposal to at least 45% of the eu 27 population. the decision was also taken to include a special safety net for countries under the macroeconomic adjustment programme, bringing the overall population coverage to around 47%. i believe that this increase in overall population coverage in assisted areas would allow us to focus on the regions that are most in need, from an eu perspective, while giving member states sufficient room to tackle internal disparities, including in border regions, islands or other areas. the adoption of the new rules is planned for the second half of june. as the report also suggested, the commission plans to keep the rules and maps of the current regional aid guidelines (rags) in place until 30 june 2014, in order to allow member states to prepare for the entry into force of the new rules on 1 july 2014. the final rags are still under discussion in the commission, and this situation may still change.
in writing. regional state aid is support for the implementation of cohesion policy by providing concrete support for economic development, reducing interregional disparities, creating jobs and promoting sustainability. unfortunately, the european parliament has only an advisory role in regulating regional state aid procedures. i believe that a better representation of citizens' interests requires amending article 109 of the treaty to eliminate the current democratic deficit through the codecision procedure. i support the commission's initiative to introduce new sectors into the regulation, such as energy infrastructure and the environment. the new airport-specific guidelines should also take into account the key role of regional airports in the development of regions. the drawing up of national state aid maps is strictly a matter for the member states, in accordance with the general guidelines proposed by the commission. i also consider it necessary to review de minimis aid and adapt it to the requirements of the member states. the new regional state aid guidelines should provide support to european companies wishing to relocate their production to third countries. for example, according to the boston consulting group, reshoring initiatives in the united states will create about five million jobs in the next few years.
studies are showing us more and more clearly that diet has a direct link to a number of serious health problems: cardiovascular disease, type ii diabetes, various forms of cancer. when combined with a sedentary lifestyle, poor nutrition is a serious health threat. the world health organization is talking about a veritable epidemic of obesity, and this is worryingly affecting children, who are the most vulnerable group. the way in which the european institutions deal with this issue will have a major influence not only on the health of european citizens in the decades to come, but also on the economic and social situation of the european union in the future. legislation to protect consumers and promote healthy eating must be a top priority in the european union, and what we have achieved in this case is a real development. there are consumers who need special foods for their special circumstances, but all consumers need clear and accurate food information so that they can make informed choices and protect their health. the european union has made progress in this area, with a number of important laws being passed in recent years, but this progress is undermined by outdated legislation that is no longer relevant to today's food market. the revision of the legislation on food for people with special nutritional needs was therefore an absolutely necessary process. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the way she has coordinated this process, for her willingness to take account of the proposals of others and for successfully defending parliament's position in the negotiations with the council. the agreement reached reflects many of parliament's priorities. redefining the scope of this legislation will block fraudulent attempts to promote products such as sports foods, slimming sticks or so-called growth milk as healthy foods. i particularly appreciate the fact that we have managed to establish very strict provisions in this regard.
alongside the reform of the common agricultural policy and the structural and cohesion funds, the continuation of european support for the most deprived is perhaps the most important success of the european institutions in the current legislature. parliament must insist on maintaining resources at the 2007-2013 level because the budget proposed by the commission represents a substantial reduction, i.e. less money for more beneficiaries. a billion euro cut in food aid is not a wise move in the current climate. i also draw particular attention to the concerns about reducing food waste, which has reached alarming proportions. it is unacceptable to live in a society of abundance, which prefers to throw away food rather than feed people in need. we have 40 million poor people in europe and we waste 90 million tonnes of food a year.
the economic and financial crisis facing europe has led to an increase in the number of people at risk of social exclusion. a significant proportion of these people depend almost daily on food packages or meals distributed under the programme financed by the european fund for aid to the most deprived. as such, to ensure a healthy and balanced diet for the beneficiaries, it is necessary for local and regional authorities, in partnership with non-governmental organisations, to organise local, regional and cross-border management networks to promote the consumption of local products and the use of perishable and non-perishable regional food products that are not traded by food chains. i also believe that the criteria for selecting foodstuffs need to be improved and, where appropriate, in particular to reduce waste at each stage of the supply chain and improve the efficiency of the supply chain, such as (...)
in writing. poverty and social exclusion are also on the rise in europe today. it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to stop this process, but the european union cannot stand idly by. the establishment and operation of a european aid fund to support the most deprived persons would be an important contribution to poverty reduction, but it is our responsibility to ensure that the fund can start functioning as soon as possible. we need to act even more quickly, as the food-sharing programme will end at the end of 2013, so the new fund should be operational by the beginning of next year to avoid a breakdown in eu aid. i think parliament will have the flexibility it needs. it is important that the council also takes a swift decision and that the commission finally has time to prepare for the aid from 1 january 2014. it should be stressed that the problem of poverty is far from being solved by the relief fund. if we are to take the europe 2020 strategy seriously, member states must take decisive action to reduce poverty as soon as possible. of course, in an age of deficit-cutting and debt reduction, it's hard to expect any serious sacrifices from governments. but europe must decide and say: is maintaining budgetary discipline at all costs more important than meeting the europe 2020 strategic objectives? i'm afraid i can't do both.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis in the member states of the european union has increased the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the number of member states participating in the programme of the fund for aid to the most deprived has increased from 9 to 20. the proposal for a programme for the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is therefore more than welcome. it is the programme that directly benefits more than 20 million people in the european union. it is an expression of solidarity as a fundamental european value.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in the process of further aligning european legislation with the treaty on the functioning of the eu. i also believe that the adoption of the report will facilitate the achievement of the objective of the proposal, namely to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the cod stocks in the relevant areas. i would like to welcome the fact that it will be based on scientific, sound data and not on political decisions. this ensures that the code stock plan will be updated in the future in an optimal manner, based on the realities of the territory. i would also like to support the need for clarification of the decision-making procedure at commission level in order to provide legal certainty.
consumer spending represents 56% of the eu's gross domestic product and is essential to achieving growth targets and emerging from the crisis. although the single market offers extraordinary opportunities to meet consumer demand, 60% of europeans are still not using the opportunities, due to lack of confidence. the main reason is uncertainty about consumer rights related to cross-border or online purchases. i therefore believe that a new consumer protection policy agenda must immediately aim at increasing consumer confidence by ensuring an increased quality of services, guaranteeing the authenticity of products, avoiding illegal or unfair practices and protecting personal data used in electronic transactions.
i voted in favour of the report because one of the objectives of the european consumer agenda is to increase consumer awareness. if clear information is provided, then the risks to consumers will be reduced. whether we are talking about food or other types of products, the health of the consumer must always come first. i'm particularly concerned about the level of information when we talk about genetically modified organisms. often, the labelling of products containing such organisms is inadequate and citizens are not aware of the possible risks they face. another problem is that some gm crops are very close to normal ones, thus increasing the risk of contamination of conventional crops. there are studies that show that in mammals, genetically modified products can cause changes in weight or in the functioning of vital organs.
in writing. − consumer protection, both in terms of public health and accurate information on available products and services, must remain one of the guiding principles of european policy. at the same time, however, it is necessary to increase the information dimension of european and national public policies, especially as a significant proportion of consumers are not aware of their rights or the means of redress. these issues are all the more pressing for vulnerable consumer groups such as children, whose protection from the consumption of unhealthy food is essential. consumer protection policy must respond to the multiple concerns felt at the european union level: the significant decline in the incomes of european citizens and the increase in the level of poverty, the increased difficulty of access to basic products and services for vulnerable groups, the ensuring of more effective food quality standards.
in writing. − the globalisation of markets brings a multitude of economic benefits, but at the same time it raises a number of problems in guaranteeing the protection of the european consumer. it is essential to ensure a high level of consumer awareness of their rights and that this information is effective, transparent and accessible. consumer education and empowerment is the basic foundation for sustainable economic growth. special attention should be paid to vulnerable groups of people, such as children or people in social or financial difficulties, by providing both appropriate information and special protection. food security must take precedence over financial interests. the european consumer has already shown his concern and concern about the correctness of product labelling in the community, so sustained efforts are needed in funding those programmes which ensure verification of the production chain, compliance with labelling, guaranteeing compliance with quality standards, and the continuous updating of these standards by carrying out laboratory studies.
in writing. − european consumers are increasingly concerned about the possible differences in the quality of products of the same brand and packaging distributed within the single market. an important contribution to strengthening consumer rights is their training to detect dangerous or counterfeit products and misleading advertising, which is why consumer education and empowerment must be ongoing, lifelong and start in school. in addition, there is a need for better protection of vulnerable consumer groups, especially children and the elderly, especially in transport, financial services, energy and it services. i believe that in this process, the closest and most effective cooperation is needed between the public sector, consumer organisations and the private sector, including traders and intermediaries in the supply chain.
in writing. − in may 2012 the european commission published the draft european consumer agenda in line with the eu consumer policy strategy 2007-2013, including new measures for the period 2014-2020 to help the consumers. consumer protection is vital for a healthy economy. hence, in these difficult times, it is necessary to boost the confidence of consumers and awareness of their own rights. the inequalities related to consumers should be reduced, consumer organisations should be encouraged and those who do not respect them should be held accountable. i believe in transparency of information and protection for consumers. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because access to justice is a right enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the union, and i therefore consider the document to be an essential step in respecting this principle. however, i believe that not enough has been done to inform citizens, with only 12% of the population aware of this right. moreover, to make legal aid more accessible, improved collaboration between public institutions and non-governmental organisations is needed. in romania, a pilot project on assistance for the establishment of an effective system of free legal aid was launched in 2006-2008. the project involved institutional and non-governmental actors and was funded through the phare programme. i regret that last year, using the pretext of the crisis and the need to cut spending, the government decided to reduce free legal aid services.
in writing. − the main problem that this report seeks to address is the knowledge gap concerning the existence of public procurement in crossborder disputes. only 12% of european citizens are aware of this possibility and it is obvious that, in view of this, there is little use of this instrument and no exercise of the right in situations where it would be lawful and possible to make use of it. in addition, as provided for in the text which i voted for, the member states could consider the possibility of designating a single legislative body, capable of receiving and transmitting in each eu jurisdiction and ensuring sufficient know-how of the officials involved in these tasks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which gives greater substance to access to legal aid for persons involved in crossborder litigation. natural and legal persons involved in cross-border disputes have the possibility of seeking legal aid in the state in which they live, in the state in which the court seised is situated or in the state in which the court's decision is enforced. i support the recognition in all member states of the decision of the authorities of a state to grant legal aid to a person involved in cross-border litigation. as only 12% of european citizens are aware of the existence of cross-border legal aid, the commission and the member states need to step up their efforts to inform citizens.
in writing. − it is of least concern that, according to the commission, only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of crossborder legal aid. in view of the increasing number of european citizens living, working or establishing their families outside their home country, and in view of the increasing number of interactions between companies from different countries within the common market, access to cross-border legal aid is of particular importance, and therefore, in addition to implementing measures, the authorities of the member states must also make efforts to make citizens aware of the possibility of having recourse to this type of support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because the latest report on customs actions to respect intellectual property rights shows an increase in the number of counterfeit cases. this means that the union's customs services have become more efficient or that fraud attempts have increased. the protection of intellectual property rights is essential to promote research, innovation and job creation in europe. customs services need to be constantly upgraded, as those who sell counterfeit goods diversify their fraudulent methods. in addition to infringing copyright and causing financial damage to governments, such products can endanger consumer safety. this is all the more evident since, in most cases, the quality of pirated products is inferior to that of the originals.
in writing. − clear and transparent eu legislation is needed to regulate the market in foodstuffs for special nutritional purposes, which are essential for certain vulnerable groups of the population (such as infants, young children, patients under medical supervision). experience has shown that certain european rules on the composition and preparation of such foods, specifically designed to meet the specific nutritional requirements of the persons for whom they are intended, no longer ensure an adequate level of protection of the general public and no longer effectively ensure the functioning of the internal market. i therefore welcome the new proposal for a regulation which improves and simplifies the legislative framework through a series of clear provisions designed to guarantee the free movement of safe and healthy foodstuffs, especially when they are intended for vulnerable groups of the population. new procedures to regulate the composition and labelling of foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses will ensure greater transparency and allow the public to have access to accurate and relevant information about the food they consume. i also welcome the commission's commitment to pay particular attention to limiting and, if necessary, banning the use of certain pesticides which, according to the latest studies, are likely to have harmful effects on health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities, because the rules put in place better guarantee the protection of the interests and, above all, the health of citizens. counterfeiting is affecting a growing range of everyday goods such as cigarettes (34% of counterfeit goods seized), household goods (14.5%), soaps, household appliances, clothing and toys (7%). the sale of counterfeit products is not only a form of deception but also a potential risk to the health and even the lives of consumers.
in writing. − food for people with special nutritional needs, known as 'parnuts' food, is an area of interest at european level, due to a growing market demand for the supply of safe and healthy products to the food chain for certain vulnerable groups of people. infant formula, formula for premature infants and low birth weight infants and special medical feeding require special attention and a harmonised approach in the eu. therefore, once these products are placed on the market, they must meet strict requirements regarding labelling, presentation, advertising, promotional and commercial practices. the new rules adopted today on the labelling and content of infant milk and feedingstuffs for people with special medical needs will be better defined to protect consumers. i believe that we need specific rules for the category of 'dietary foods', especially for athletes, and for foods for weight loss or for low-calorie diets, which take account of innovation in this sector and consumer safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because individual measures taken at member state level generate different levels of food safety and protection of human health. they are a burden on consumers and the free movement of food within the union. infants and children have specific nutritional needs, vital in ensuring normal development. the current efforts will be a step forward in educating parents about infant and child nutrition. an important aspect of the report is that relating to food advertising. the prohibition of practices such as exaggerating benefits or discouraging breastfeeding are key elements of the proposal. in romania, there is a code of ethics on advertising food intended for children, as well as numerous legislative provisions. however, there is a need for a single, harmonised regulation.
in writing. − the proposed regulation is intended to replace directive 2009/39/ec on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses and a number of commission acts implementing that directive, while also eliminating the concept of dietetic food. the regulation aims to clarify the legal framework by avoiding overlap between the specific legislation applicable to these foods and the legislation applicable to normal foods, and by closing legal loopholes in the existing system. furthermore, i believe that its purpose is to ensure that eu rules on these types of food are applied in a similar way in all member states, thus contributing to legal certainty, in the interests of consumers and producers, while preventing distortion of the internal market.
in writing. − i supported this report because i believe that the elements of the compromise concern topics of the greatest interest to european citizens. the aim of this regulation was to ensure a high level of consumer protection, in particular for foods intended for infants and children, foods intended for medical use and also to clarify the rules on the establishment of composition and information requirements for certain foods (including foods for medical use), foods for people intolerant to gluten, foods used in low calorie diets, formula for premature babies and low birth weight infants, and market access for smes. the labelling and presentation of products must be accurate, clear and easy to understand, and not misleading to the consumer. i believe that a particularly important element of the compromise discussed in the report is market access for smes. the commission may adopt technical guidelines to facilitate compliance by food business operators with the provisions on compositional and information requirements and the union list of substances.
in writing. − i believe that the eu rules on these types of food should be applied in a similar way in all member states, thus helping to ensure legal certainty in the interests of both consumers and producers.
in writing. − i welcome the amendment to directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). protecting the interests, safety and health of workers at work is one of the guiding principles of european legislation, which is why we need new time limit values for their exposure to electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields. despite the awareness of the short and long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields, the competent authorities at european level and in the member states must continue their efforts in this regard. at the same time, legislation designed to protect the health and safety of workers must be revised accordingly as soon as scientific or medical discoveries point to the possible occurrence of serious risks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the protection of workers at work is of particular importance, especially for those exposed to the greatest health risks. i am referring in particular to pregnant women, who should not be exposed to harmful radiation. the employer should allow the worker to avoid entering areas where radiation exceeds the limit values. otherwise, the baby's development may be affected, resulting in birth complications and health problems that may affect the child for life. also, in the long term, various forms of cancer can occur with prolonged exposure to electric or magnetic fields. last but not least, i believe that protection systems should be accompanied by further studies on the effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields.
in writing. − improving occupational safety and health is important not only from a human point of view to reduce the suffering of workers, but also as a way of ensuring the success and sustainability of enterprises through better economic development in the long term. despite considerable efforts, the number of accidents at work and occupational diseases remains high and i therefore believe that the introduction of minimum safety and health requirements is also necessary for workers exposed to risks from physical agents.
in writing. − directive 2004/40/ec should be repealed and more appropriate and proportionate measures to protect workers from the risks associated with electromagnetic fields should be introduced. the directive does not address long-term effects, including possible carcinogenic effects of exposure to time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields, for which there is currently no conclusive scientific evidence establishing a causal relationship. those measures should aim to address all known direct and indirect biophysical effects of electromagnetic fields, so as not only to ensure the health and safety of each individual worker, but also to create a minimum basis of protection for all workers in the union. the commission and the member states should intensify research and data collection on the long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields. employers should be required to ensure that risks from electromagnetic fields at the workplace are eliminated or minimised. it is possible that in certain cases the exposure limit values laid down in this directive may be exceeded only temporarily. in this case, employers are required to take the necessary measures to return to compliance with the exposure limit values as soon as possible.
in writing. − to protect the health of workers in areas where work includes exposure to electromagnetic fields and to limit their effects, member states need to require the employers concerned to ensure that workers' exposure to electromagnetic fields is limited. as such, it is necessary for the employer to identify and assess, for the purpose of assessment, the magnetic fields at the workplace, taking into account the relevant guidance specified by legislation and other relevant standards and guidance provided by member states, including exposure databases. the assessment shall be made on the basis of emission levels and other relevant safety data provided with the equipment by the manufacturer or distributor in accordance with european legislation, including the risk assessment, if applicable to the exposure conditions at the workplace or installation site.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in the context of the fact that the current regulation has not achieved its objectives and according to the assessments it will not achieve them by 2015, i welcome the new provisions. we must not lose sight of the fact that some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable limit. maintaining fishing mortality rates at a sustainable level, based on scientific advice, should facilitate the recovery of fish stocks. member states will have to give priority to the development and promotion of measures and incentives aimed at avoiding unwanted catches. i think it is important that member states take the necessary measures to minimise discards.
in writing. − an initial plan to restore cod stocks came into effect in early 2004, followed by the current long-term cod plan in early 2009. the review of the long-term plan for the cod is a matter of fundamental importance, not only for the welfare of those stocks, but also because it is a source of effort control for several fleets. this plan shall include automatic annual reductions, under certain biological conditions, both in effort and in total allowable catch. these reductions take place regardless of whether the reserve improves, and only if the improvement does not strictly meet the conditions set out in the plan.
i voted in favour of the report because the latest eurobarometer on corruption shows that 74% of eu citizens consider it a major problem in their country. in romania, the percentage is 96%, up three points from the previous eurobarometer. we therefore need stronger tools at national and european level to combat corruption, one of which is the widespread confiscation of assets derived from corruption as well as other crimes. the former right-wing government promoted a bill on extensive confiscation, but currently the law is not effectively implemented and those who have obtained wealth illegally continue to keep it, even after they have been convicted. unfortunately, the most affected are ordinary citizens, who lose their faith in the justice system.
in writing. − organised crime is a threat to the european economy and society. traditional mafia-like organisations in certain regions of southern europe have gradually expanded their reach, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies, forming alliances with other criminal groups in other countries, even on other continents, and sharing markets and spheres of influence, all in the context of countless criminal activities and profit opportunities. the fight against organised crime is a global one, affecting many areas of eu action and policy. the impact on local economies, societies and institutions is therefore increasingly evident at various levels. organized crime has now become a global economic actor, enjoying enormous competitive advantages and fraudulently harming the legal economy.
in writing. − unfortunately, organised crime and corruption in europe have developed to a worrying level. i voted in favour of the measures that the european union wants to take against these phenomena, being aware that in order to bring romania into line with european standards, we must strictly comply with the legislation imposed. it is also true that these criminal groups have developed new methods of obtaining illicit proceeds in recent times and have also expanded both within europe and far beyond the continent, one of the elements that has enabled this development being precisely globalisation. in addition to the enormous financial damage caused by corruption, money laundering and criminal organisations, these activities have reached a new level, using violence and intimidation at the level of citizens to achieve their goals. i also support the rapporteur's proposal for a special committee on these situations, which seeks to provide a guide to better european and national legislation and at the same time to form a coherent and uniform legal framework to act directly against these organisations.
in writing. − poverty is a major factor in organised crime, exploited by criminal organisations, and is essential to eradicate and improve access to employment and social protection. the total number of victims of forced labour in eu member states is estimated at 880 000, of which approximately 30% are victims of sexual exploitation and 70% are victims of forced labour, with women representing the majority of victims in the eu. forced labour brings considerable profits to mafia organisations, leads to social dumping and causes numerous losses to society in tax terms. the commission should present a proposal to develop article 18 of the trafficking in persons directive to encourage member states to criminalise the use of services provided by victims of all forms of exploitation related to trafficking in human beings, including sexual and labour exploitation. measures to combat trafficking in human beings and forced labour must focus on the root causes, such as global inequalities. member states should therefore respect their commitments in development aid and the millennium development goals.
i voted in favour of the report because in romania the economic crisis has affected the real estate sector most and the ability to obtain a decent price for housing. the construction of social housing for young people under 35 was one of the priorities of the former government which, through the ministry of regional development, managed to open several thousand apartments between 2010 and 2011. the prime house programme, launched by the same right-wing government, has also made it easier for young people to get access to mortgages. the programme aimed both to purchase a home for young romanians so that they could start a new life and to stimulate the construction sector and job creation. unfortunately, the current socialist government does not attach as much importance to the continuation of the youth housing program.
in writing. − with the economic and financial crisis intensifying, access to housing is becoming an increasingly pressing issue for a growing number of european citizens. the number of citizens currently in social housing is high, reaching 25 million. there are also major disparities between member states in the number of social housing available. in these circumstances, it is important that investment in social housing becomes a priority at member state level, and the european union should give greater support to this process. investment in this area is all the more necessary as high unemployment, growing economic inequalities and the amplified decline in incomes of european citizens threaten the objective of building an inclusive european society.
in writing. − inadequate living conditions have a considerable impact on health and improving the quality of housing can prevent the negative effects of crowded, excessively wet, cold living spaces on the health of those living in them. homelessness is a source of stress and suffering, with negative effects on the quality of life and on the health and well-being of individuals and families. social innovation needs to be supported by both the european platform to combat poverty and social exclusion and the research framework programme to analyse new policies aimed at improving access to housing and reducing homelessness. the rules on the eligibility of energy rehabilitation of dwellings in the context of social cohesion for funding from the european union structural funds should continue to be applied by the member states. they should be encouraged to cooperate with local and regional authorities in setting priorities and ways of using structural funds resources. member states should include in their national reforms a special component dedicated to developing affordable solutions to enable older people to live in their own homes for as long as possible, facilitating their reintegration into social life by increasing their personal independence.
in writing. − the european union's move to support disadvantaged classes through housing plays a key role in the context of the current social imbalances in europe. the european union is currently facing a shortage of social housing, with over 100,000 people dying every year due to inadequate housing conditions. a good housing policy can generate economic growth, avoid macroeconomic imbalances and thus contribute to poverty reduction, planned land use, urban development and the fight against climate change. therefore, promoting social inclusion through access to quality housing and social services, and active policies in this regard, should be a priority at member state level. in addition, particular attention should be paid to improving the quality of social housing. i consider the report by my colleague karima delli to be timely in the context of the economic and social crisis which has made access to social housing more difficult, but i abstained from voting on the report because of some of the points mentioned in the document which contradict the position of the group of the european people's party.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote on this report because it contains a number of rather ideological references, lacking in realism and with little practical potential. however, i fully support many of the comments in the report. for example, i think it is particularly important to tackle energy poverty and to define affordability of housing not only in terms of rent but also in terms of fuel bills. in this context, i also note the important role played by improving energy efficiency as a solution to boost competitiveness, job creation, social protection and economic growth.
i support the ronzulli report, i also voted for article 23. i think we need more women in key positions. according to the latest statistics, we currently have 10.7% unemployment in the european union, of which 22.7% are under 25. it is precisely because of these worrying figures that eu policies on education, migration, employment, social protection need to reflect a greater awareness of the situation of women in the european union by public institutions and come up with age-based policies. the european commission should also look ahead to ways of promoting women's training in stem professions, namely mathematics, computer science and new technologies.
in writing. − gender segregation in the labour market, the lack of adequate working conditions, the pay gap, inadequate measures to balance family and working life, the persistence of stereotypes and the risk of gender discrimination are factors which in many cases discourage women from exercising their right to move, reside and work freely within the union. i therefore believe that every effort must be made to remove these obstacles so that equality between women and men does not remain a matter of principle. a case that deserves increased attention is that of women who travel abroad to obtain domestic service jobs involving the care of children, disabled or elderly people, and who are often employed without a contract or work illegally and therefore have no right to social security, healthcare and other benefits related to pension contributions. member states should take all necessary measures and make such persons aware of their rights, including their rights to access declared work, social services and health services.
in writing. − vocational mobility highlights the need to adapt education and training systems to new labour market requirements, to stimulate lifelong learning and the acquisition of skills, and to improve systems for the recognition of professional qualifications. states need to work together to find solutions to prevent or compensate for effects of occupational mobility in certain member states and in certain fields (e.g. the mobility of healthcare workers, who are mostly women) that may affect human rights in the countries of origin. member states should also work together to combat any form of trafficking in human beings that may arise in the context of women's educational and occupational mobility, in particular prostitution and forced labour. the commission must find ways of ensuring that the level of education acquired as a result of youth mobility is consistent with the job offers corresponding to that level, so as to guarantee the effectiveness of mobility in both its educational and vocational phases. special attention should also be paid to supporting the mobility of women over 45, who are more likely than others to accept poor working conditions, and to finding specific solutions to the problems faced by roma women.
in writing. − the financial crisis has negatively affected the labour market. we have a problem in europe related to social exclusion and poverty. women face many problems related to working and living conditions when moving away from home. the first clear example that comes to mind is that of seasonal workers. the report emphasizes the fact that fostering the educational and occupational mobility of women can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 goals. it points out that mobility should be based on gender equality and combating discrimination on any grounds. we need to come up with tailor-made measures to protect women against discrimination. as in the example i gave above, we need european policies that take into account the living and working conditions of women moving away to take seasonal jobs in agriculture. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the unemployment rate for women is 10.7% in the european union and 22.7% for women under 25. women's wages in the eu are on average 16.4% lower than men's, with major discrepancies between some member states. the solutions to this are: quality education, which ensures better employment prospects and higher wages; rapid reintegration of women who are temporarily out of work to care for children or family; proactive policies for business development. educational mobility and access to information also help to combat human trafficking by international networks that attract women in particular through false promises of jobs and lead to sexual exploitation, forced labour or begging.
in writing. − statistics on the situation of women worldwide are worrying in terms of living standards, education and opportunities for achievement, but also in terms of the dangers they face. we thus realise the need for a reasoned debate within the european institutions to find solutions to the social risks to which women are exposed throughout their lives. the economic crisis makes it harder for citizens to find suitable jobs in their home countries. for women, the challenges are even greater, whether it is the division into predominantly male or female specialisations, the difficulty of reconciling private and professional life, age barriers or even the effort to follow their partners abroad at the expense of their own career. the list goes on and on, but i wanted to draw attention to some of the major challenges that women face. i believe that a quality education that is market-driven offers better job prospects, significantly reducing the risk of poverty. at the same time, crossborder mobility can provide jobs that are compatible with the training received, secure jobs, provided the work is performed legally, with the payment of contributions due to the state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because there are still difficulties in adapting to the setre system. regardless of the system and the way of charging chosen, i think it is very important to ensure the visibility and transparency of the charges. in addition, the charging of road charges should not have a negative impact on cross-border travel. and citizens need to be spared hidden costs or extra expenses. i think implementing online payment systems is essential in this situation. this would ensure easy access to information and greater transparency. and travelers could plan ahead for all their expenses. i think we could also consider displaying the toll in both national and euro currency, in order to protect consumers.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of mr higgins’ report because the european union needs to always improve its principle of free movement. road transport continues to grow but road infrastructures cannot be extended forever; this is why we need a better traffic management. the eets has the role of permitting interoperability of tolling services on all the european union’s roads and avoiding the multiplication of incompatible systems. this new european road-tolls strategy will allow our citizens and smes to suffer no distinction on the european roads as is sometimes the case. the report proposes improvements in terms of costs to the consumer, payment methods and security. it will also make daily operations for road users easier, improve traffic flow and reduce congestion.
the reporter. - and i will say, as cecilia wikström, that today is a historic moment for the european union's asylum policy and i am glad that we have managed to reach this result together, whereby we are voting on the whole asylum package this week. so it is a success for parliament, for the european commission, for the council and i want to start by thanking the european commission, commissioner cecilia malmström in particular and her team, i want to thank the council and in particular the irish presidency, which has been extremely helpful and helpful in finalising this dossier and, of course, my shadow rapporteurs from all the other political groups. i think it is important, in reference to eurodac, where i am rapporteur, to state exactly what eurodac is. it's a system for collecting fingerprints from three categories of people: 1. persons from countries other than the european union who are seeking asylum or international protection in the european union; 2. persons caught crossing the border of a member state illegally and 3. fingerprints of persons also outside the european union caught illegally on the territory of a member state. all these categories of persons and fingerprints are used for the implementation of asylum policy. i'll give you an example of why we need such a database: because there have been cases where a person has sought political asylum in france and then sought political asylum in other countries, in germany or in the uk. those courts can check exactly how many other places, if any, the person has applied for political asylum in the eurodac database. there have also been a few cases where asylum seekers claimed that, for example, two months ago they were being tortured in a particular country; or, checking in the eurodac system, it was discovered that, on that date, they had already entered the european union and, as such, the argument was not real. what i mean is: i mean that we want to protect and support all those who are truly in need of international protection and are welcome in the european union. and obviously, they have to be honest with us. but we don't want to protect those who come here lying to us and trying to cheat the system. just as we don't want anyone, any european citizen, to take social benefits from more than one eu country, we don't want that to happen to those seeking political asylum. so we apply the same rules to eu citizens and international protection seekers. the main novelty of this report is the access of investigating authorities in serious crime and terrorism cases to responses from the eurodac fingerprint database. i will give an example again: if a serious crime or terrorist act is committed in a member state and fingerprints are collected at the crime scene and they are not identified in the national database or in other databases, then that state can ask eurodac whether or not it has such fingerprints in its system. eurodac just does a comparison, doesn't give you a name back, tells you yes or no and sends you to the country where those fingerprints were collected. therefore, there are safeguards for the protection of personal data, the person is informed when his fingerprints are lifted that they might be used for this purpose. we have balanced and matched the two interests of protecting personal data and protecting the public interest.
mr president, colleagues, i have always been a great supporter of the establishment of an eu asylum system and an eu migration system, because i truly believe that the european union should be a major international actor, and the truth is that one cannot hope to play such a huge role without coherence and consistency in one’s domestic policy on migration and asylum. with the vote tomorrow we will conclude the difficult and hard work which has lasted for several years. am i personally happy with the outcome? not entirely; nevertheless, i consider that we have made the first step in the right direction and i hope that from now on we will improve. of course, for this to happen, we will have to change the prejudices shared by some governments and some citizens that those coming to the european union are in one way or another related to organised crime or terrorism. they are not; criminals do not need our regulation and directives to harm. those coming to us as asylum-seekers are those who do so to save their own lives, often leaving war zones or conflict zones or unbearable circumstances. they are not the enemies, just people who want to survive. we should not forget our own history – including our recent history – when citizens of countries which today are members of the european union were obliged to escape their homeland and europe and find shelter in other parts of the world. they were well received by their countries of adoption, which explain the large european communities existing today in the world. i welcome the decision taken by the european court of justice a few days ago on unaccompanied minors, as it is right that vulnerable children should never be more in danger than they already are, and no effort is too much to act in their best interest. i expect the member states to fully respect this, and i believe the same reasoning should apply in the case of victims of torture and other vulnerable people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule149 (8))
blue-card answer. – well, i would say that the beauty of the european union is that we do not only have legislation on asylum seekers and asylum policy, but we also have a number of other programmes that are trying to foster cooperation with countries which are in very difficult situations. unfortunately, wars occur for a variety of reasons, and not only those that you can easily see. i am afraid that it is not up to the european union to stop all the wars in the world, but what we can do is show solidarity and treat people in the same way as others have treated us in the past.
i want to welcome the agreement reached with the council on the asylum package, as i believe it represents progress with respect to the existing rules. unfortunately, the current european asylum system falls far short of the human rights standards that the european union should have. the inaccessibility of the european asylum system has led to people in need of international protection bypassing the european union and going to neighbouring countries that provide much more humane conditions. at the same time, the european union continues to hypocritically declare itself to be a model for the defence of human rights. the new package agreed by parliament and the council brings some improvements both in terms of the procedures and conditions for receiving and examining asylum applications. i believe it is essential that people in need of international protection have easy access to asylum procedures and also have constant access to information and legal and medical assistance. i particularly welcome the improvement of solidarity mechanisms between member states, but i believe that there is still room for progress in this area. finally, i would like to stress that the main problem with the european asylum system has never been the existing legislation, but rather its incorrect application by the member states. i therefore ask the commission to ensure close monitoring of the implementation of future legislation.
the european union respects human dignity, democracy, freedom and equality, which are essential elements enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and also part of the case law of the european court of justice. asylum is a fundamental right and it obliges the european union to respect, protect and create the most favourable conditions for those who apply for asylum. let us not forget that they come to the european union because of wars or because of a regime that forces them to leave their country of origin and thus they need social inclusion. we must therefore give them the chance to enjoy the benefits of the fundamental right to asylum, regardless of the administrative or financial problems that can be avoided. they must have access to health, education, legal services and the right to work. also, given that the member states on the european union's borders are experiencing this phenomenon much more than those within the european union, i believe that solidarity is needed from the whole of the european union.
the reporter. − i would like to answer very briefly to a few concerns, all related to the access of the research authorities to the eurodac database on the basis of yes or you do not have this fingerprint in the eurodac database. and currently, member states have access to the fingerprints of asylum seekers or those found illegally in the european union, based on bilateral cooperation, but what we've done with this eurodac is we've shortened the time it takes you to get this information. so instead of asking 26 member states to send the fingerprint found at the crime scene, you now ask eurodac. basically, i just cut down on the reaction time. why are we doing this? let's find the balance, because the balance is the essence of reconciling all interests; namely to find any suspects, any victims or any witnesses to a terrorist crime or a serious crime. we also have a lot of safeguards: no application can be sent to eurodac until it has been verified by certain institutions designated in advance by the authorities of each member state. there are also very strict criteria on whether or not you can ask eurodac for this information. we have designated authorities with the application, we have designated authorities to verify the application and then it's sent, plus the criteria on which it can be sent and they're restrictive. and i would also point out that when these fingerprints are collected, the individuals are informed that they may be used for this purpose. and one last thing: we all know that we require biometric passports from candidate countries and those who want visa liberalisation, and you should know that all these biometric passports also involve fingerprinting. in romania it's the same; for example, last week they took my fingerprint when i applied for a biometric passport. i don't feel discriminated against, we don't discriminate against anyone, we just use these databases in the case of serious crimes.
rapporteur. − mr president, colleagues, each year a survey is carried out on how european citizens see the european union. each and every time, more than 50 % say that the biggest achievement of the eu is free movement. there are good reasons for this answer. in a europe where for decades people, even families, were separated by borders and horrendous controls, finding ourselves all together in an area where movement is free gives us the feeling of living in one big house. it is also very easy to notice the economic benefits for our businesses. then why hesitate for more than a year and a half to reach an agreement on something so much wanted and appreciated by european citizens? the answer is as simple as it is complicated. a populist approach has taken over several eu member states and the ongoing elections here and there have determined a switch in the approach of some governments – but here we are. the text on the schengen border code, for which i am the rapporteur, sets clear rules and checks and balances for last-resort situations involving the introduction of border controls at internal borders, to avoid any misuse or abuse. i admit i would have loved a 100 % community decision on the reintroduction of border controls, but apparently that time has not yet come. however, it is fair to say that we succeeded in introducing a degree of community dimension and additional guarantees to ensure that the mechanism would not be misused. the current possibilities for reintroducing border controls have been clarified, and among the safeguards we should note a proportionality test of the impact of the measures and, where appropriate, consultations and meetings among the member states affected by the reintroduction of border controls, and opinions by the commission. a new option of reintroducing border controls, which was in fact the request, or rather the demand, addressed by the council to the commission two years ago, will be used only as a last resort in exceptional circumstances, as a result of persistent, serious deficiencies related to external border controls. but, in that case, the proposal will come from the commission after thorough evaluation. among other additional checks and balances, we should mention that a recital was introduced so as to keep our 2011 commitment. migration and the crossing of external borders by a large number of third country nationals should not per se be considered to be a threat to public policy or to internal security. the total period during which border controls are reintroduced on the basis of a serious threat to public policy or internal security cannot exceed two months. the commission will present to the european parliament and the council, at least annually, a report on the functioning of the area without internal border controls. this report is to include a list of all decisions to reintroduce internal border controls taken during the relevant year. i would like to say a few words also on mr coelho’s report, for which i am a shadow. the true achievement here is the role of the commission. if today it is a mere observer and the mechanism is based on a peer-to-peer review, in future the commission will be responsible for most decisions to be taken either in comitology, in cooperation with member states, or acting alone. the council can adopt recommendations only upon proposals from the commission. it is also interesting to note that in relation to the decision-making process, a joint statement from the three institutions has been adopted, and it provides that any future commission proposal amending the evaluation mechanism should be submitted to parliament for consultation. if adopted – and i hope it will be adopted – it will set a precedent, as it interprets article 70, whereby parliament should only be informed in a creative way, namely a commitment to consult.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on the work and tenacity they have shown over the past two years to get to this point. i want to start by saying that this agreement on schengen governance is relatively far from what the european commission proposed two years ago; however, i believe it represents progress compared to the situation so far. the old model of intergovernmental governance has given rise to abuses and restrictions of freedom of movement within schengen. we have to keep in mind that these abuses are probably just the tip of the iceberg, and that many other issues in border management have simply been ignored because of the friendly way of evaluating. i would add that, up to now, there have been two assessment systems: one very relaxed and applicable to all schengen states and another, more stringent, for the candidate countries. this double standard, and the intergovernmental governance, has led to the absurd situation that some candidate countries, such as romania and bulgaria, are denied access to schengen, even though it is widely accepted that these two countries apply the highest standards of border management in the european union. the new agreement brings considerable improvements, as the same rules will apply to all and the evaluation process will be europeanised even more efficiently. the european commission will play a central role in the new schengen governance, as it will coordinate the entire evaluation process and have a say in the possible reintroduction of internal border controls. the new evaluation mechanism will be based on objective data and frontex risk analysis and will allow for unannounced visits, including at internal borders, which have not been possible until now. from now on, there will be a follow-up plan, coordinated by the european commission, whenever weaknesses in the application of the acquis are identified. this means firstly support and assistance measures, but also a deterrent system, whereby the commission can propose the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls in the event of very serious and persistent deficiencies. at the same time, the european parliament will play a much more important role, by having access to all the data and overseeing the entire evaluation process and being consulted in case of changes to the mechanism. in conclusion, i would like to stress that for my country and for the other member states outside the schengen area, all this will not be enough if the europeanisation of governance is not also applied to the way in which new members are admitted to the schengen area. this is all the more evident as the accession of romania and bulgaria has been blocked for more than two years, for reasons that have nothing to do with the rules and the european spirit of good cooperation. that is why i am planning to propose to parliament for debate a new possible european way of accepting new schengen members and i hope i can count on your support.
mr president, i will speak again at the end. but i can take advantage of this and thank the irish presidency very much, since the minister will have to leave. yes, minister, i thank you deeply for all your efforts in coming to the conclusion of this report.
i support the three reports in the schengen package because they defend the right to free movement within the european union, one of the most precious assets the union has. i'd like to mention some of the improvements brought about by these reports. 1 - the standards for schengen member states are more relaxed than for candidate countries such as romania and bulgaria. through these reports, the standards are made equal for everyone: for the candidate countries as well as for the member states, that is, the standards will also be raised in the schengen countries that are already members. secondly, monitoring of internal border controls, monitoring of illegal internal border controls will be possible, which is not possible today. for example, teams of experts can board buses carrying tourists from different countries to other eu countries and see for themselves whether or not these people are subject to illegal checks. a third improvement is that the possibility of reintroducing border controls can be made much more restrictive than before, namely only with the agreement of the european commission, and the decision is taken by the council of the union, with the approval of the european commission. again, based on well-established criteria and solely to protect public order. so all of this will lead to transport, to travel, to free movement in the european union on an equal basis for all citizens.
it is gratifying that these two regulations aim to improve the schengen evaluation mechanism to address crisis situations in the common regions, especially at the borders of the countries of the european union. however, it is worrying that nothing is being done at european level to resolve the issue of bulgaria and romania's accession to the schengen area. the persistence of opposition by certain member states is an abuse which runs counter to the long-term principles and objectives of the european union. the position of these states has shown, once again, that although all member states enjoy common responsibilities, unfortunately some states do not enjoy the same benefits. ladies and gentlemen, these populist ambitions will only weaken the power of the european union and reduce our credibility globally. given that all the conditions for accession have been met, i hereby call on all the institutions responsible to identify and propose for implementation all the necessary measures to contribute to the successful enlargement of the schengen area and to eliminate this injustice.
the reporter. - i'll use these last minutes to send only two messages. the first is to thank, really wholeheartedly, my friend and colleague, carlos coelho, but also the other colleagues who have been shadow in these reports, as well as our assistants and the staff of the parliament, who have helped us so much. the second message i want to convey is that for me, as a strong pro-european, it is not surprising that a member of parliament from a country outside the schengen area has been able to work, apparently very well, but in any case with a lot of determination, for something that belongs to all european citizens. but i confess that at the same time i did it thinking of the country i represent here, romania, thinking that this new schengen governance would pave the way for romania's accession to the schengen area, a country that is prepared and technically and that very much wants to be part of this area. we are european citizens and obviously we all want to enjoy the same rights as is natural.
in writing. the free movement of people is one of the most tangible achievements of a united europe and the right most cherished by eu citizens, according to a study by the european commission. however, i was astonished to see that some governments have managed, for more than two years, to impose double standards and raise barriers to the application of a fundamental right. romania and bulgaria thus repeatedly faced changing rules during the game. i would like to thank the commission and my colleagues in parliament for their efforts to impose uniform criteria on the schengen acquis. they will apply to both countries that already enjoy membership of the free movement area and those that have not yet joined, and will refer to technical principles rather than the judicial system, ending discrimination and strengthening mutual trust between eu members. i welcome this schengen evaluation mechanism, which will be based on clear and transparent rules and will be more rigorous and, at the same time, fairer than the system in force so far.
in writing. the new schengen evaluation mechanism, as amended by parliament's amendments, will lead to the strengthening of the schengen area. through this mechanism, the introduction of border controls will no longer be a decision that a member state can take without seeking approval at eu level. the reintroduction of border controls should only be a last resort and if, following the on-the-spot assessment and the assistance provided by frontex, the member state is unable to remedy the deficiency within six months. i stress the importance of strengthening the role of frontex and the operability of the recently proposed european border guard corps. the commission should ensure the coordination of the evaluation programmes. the schengen evaluation process should be carried out in cooperation with member states' experts and representatives of the european parliament. it is important to provide for financial compensatory measures to support member states affected by the reintroduction of internal border controls. the change from the intergovernmental approach to schengen evaluation to an eu-wide coordinated mechanism under the commission's control is a very good thing. i would stress that romania and bulgaria have met all the schengen evaluation criteria and this new mechanism will reconfirm this when it comes into force.
the financial and economic crisis has also brought our attention to the financial reporting system, and i'm not going to talk about those companies or governments that have knowingly manipulated financial reporting. i'm talking about the weaknesses that exist in the system of international financial reporting standards. i would like to welcome the initiative of commissioner barnier, who has appointed a special adviser to examine the quality of the process of adapting and adopting international financial reporting standards in the european union, and we look forward to the outcome of this adviser's work.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much, first of all, to mr sánchez presedo for this excellent report on the 2011 annual competition report. and my thanks also to those members from the committee on employment and social affairs (econ), the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and the committee on transport and tourism (tran) – mr ungureanu, mr schwab and mr kamall – who also contributed to parliament’s report on our work in 2011. this is the fourth competition report during the term in office of the barroso ii commission, of my term in office as commissioner for competition, and i am happy to say before this parliament that the dialogue between our two institutions on competition policy continues to deepen and i welcome very much your support for the work of the commission on competition enforcement. as you know, this report was structured to better respond to parliament’s wishes, allowing us to focus on key policy areas. we have continued to improve the report in 2012. i had the opportunity recently to present this new report to the econ committee and i hope that we have been able to reflect some of your comments on last year’s report in this year’s one. as i said when i presented the 2011 report to you, almost one year ago, one of our main goals is to maintain stability amid persistent turbulence in financial markets. we continue to use state aid rules to restructure and resolve banks which needed public support to preserve financial stability, minimise the cost to public finances, and ensure that restructured banks are sufficiently viable to be able to lend to companies and households. on this point i fully agree with mr sánchez presedo’s words a few minutes ago. you are well aware of the ongoing discussions around banking supervision and restructuring. on the competition side, we will soon put forward revised state aid guidelines for banks. they will reflect current practice in our case work and include stricter burden-sharing requirements for shareholders and junior creditors, and will provide that, in principle, only reversible measures – like loans or guarantees – can be approved as rescue aid. thus, we hope that taxpayers will feel less of the pain when a bank needs to be restructured. one year ago i outlined our plans for the modernisation of state aid. since then we have been working hard to take this forward, and i welcome the contribution of the econ committee and the transport committee to this work through the pietikäinen and the dorfmann reports. i look forward to these reports being adopted in this parliament in due course. another important project has been the revision of the regional aid guidelines, which was discussed here last night based on the vlasák report and which the commission will try to adopt in the coming weeks. i welcome parliament’s support for our firm enforcement of the antitrust rules and for the ongoing fight against cartels, in which both our fining policy and settlement procedure play important roles. i note your reiterated call for the commission to review the fining guidelines. this is a topic which we have discussed on several occasions during recent years. i want to repeat that setting the fines is not an arbitrary exercise. the framework for our fining powers and fining policy is set out in a council regulation – regulation (ec) no 1/2003. this contains objective criteria which limit our discretion: the fines shall reflect the gravity and the duration of the infringements and cannot exceed 10 % of the undertaking’s total worldwide turnover. we also decided, as have other competition authorities, and as a matter of transparency, to provide further details of our methodology in the guidelines – the guidelines that are binding for our work. these guidelines take the view that the current legal framework ensures that fines achieve punitive and deterrent effects while allowing the commission to react quickly to and take into account company-specific and market-related situations. the european court of justice has confirmed the legality of this approach on several occasions. in your report, parliament draws the commission’s attention to several specific sectoral issues. we share your concerns about the level of competition in sectors such as energy and transport. in such fields, our policy and our regulatory work go hand in hand. concerning the full implementation of the third energy package, my colleague mr oettinger and his directorate-general may take the lead; the same in the transport sector with my colleague mr kallas and the same in the digital sector, in the telecoms sector, with my colleague ms neelie kroes. as you said, in difficult times it is ever more important for markets to work efficiently and fairly, to deliver the benefits to businesses of all sizes and to european citizens and consumers, and with your help, we will continue to achieve this. in another area of key importance to consumers, the commission shares your concerns in relation to the volatility of food prices. the report published by the european competition network last year shows that the food sector has been a priority for competition authorities, which have been very active in enforcing competition law and monitoring market developments. between 2001 and 2011, the national competition authorities investigated more than 180 antitrust cases in this area, took close to 1 300 merger decisions, and monitored around 100 activities. the commission stands ready to investigate any possible anti-competitive agreements between different players in the supply chain which would ultimately lead to price increases for our consumers. i also agree fully with you that consumers are the final beneficiaries of our competition enforcement action. so i think that on all these areas we probably share the same objectives, the same priorities, and i hope very much that we will continue to work together. i am very keen now to listen to your views in the debate and to continue our dialogue.
, rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, the introduction of employment aspects into competition policy is a positive move as the business environment has indeed changed since the beginning of the economic crisis. the committee on employment and social affairs launched proposals that tackle the effects of competition policy on labour markets. firstly, investment in education, training and vocational training. this will ensure that the labour force will withstand competitive pressure and adapt better to new market conditions. secondly, the measures for integration and reintegration of workers into the labour market as part of the services of general economic interest (sgeis) will redefine what sgeis are in the current market conditions. as stressed by the employment committee, competition policy should bring support to smes, especially in times of economic crisis. the commission needs to assess along these lines the future development of companies undergoing restructuring or privatisation. the employment components should not collide with the principles of competition policy. so i suggest the commission should address this specific chapter in its next .... (the president cut off the speaker)
i particularly appreciate the flexibility of the european commission in adapting competition and state aid policy to the new challenges posed by the financial and economic crisis. i would also like to thank commissioner almunia for the openness and transparency in the structured dialogue with the members of the econ committee. i would like to stress, however, the persistence of the large price differences which still exist for some products and services between the different member states within the single market. it demonstrates that there are still obstacles to competition in this single market and it is the european commission's duty to identify these obstacles and to act to remove them for the benefit of competition and european citizens.
in writing. competition is the cornerstone of the internal market and an important driver of economic development and the well-being of european consumers, as has been confirmed over time. the economic crisis we are experiencing has re-ignited some protectionist tendencies and fuelled anti-competitive discourse. i believe that the european institutions should counter these trends by putting more emphasis on the benefits of competition for consumers in particular, in order to increase the legitimacy of competition policy. i would like to congratulate the commission on the way it has implemented competition policy in 2011. however, i believe that there are certain aspects that deserve a little more attention in the future, especially from the consumer's point of view. these include the full implementation of the energy package, which is of major importance to european consumers in the context of rising energy prices, the close monitoring of competition in the agri-food sector or the move towards a more open market for electronic payments. i conclude by stressing once again the importance for consumers of alternative dispute resolution and collective actions for damages for damage caused by non-compliance with competition rules.
this report aims at aligning with the provisions of the lisbon treaty and the commission is calling for a whole range of powers relating to illegal fishing to be conferred under the treaty. of course, these powers should be conferred on the commission to enable it to implement the legislation. but i ask the commission to exercise these powers effectively and efficiently in combating illegal fishing. in recent years, poaching has taken on unprecedented proportions in the black sea. last year, the romanian authorities seized 120 poaching vessels, most of them turkish or ukrainian, so from countries outside the union or not subject to strict european rules. i would remind the commission that a large part of the shortcomings in the management of fisheries in the black sea are linked to the lack of a regional organisation for this area and the establishment of a black sea committee is a repeated request of this parliament.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and express my concern about the attitude of the european council towards parliament when it comes to setting the future multiannual financial framework. for example, the figures set by the european council in february 2013 were difficult for parliament to reach, which i find unacceptable. parliament is a legislator and its role must be respected. i strongly support the rapporteur's position, which amends the commission's proposal. acceptance of this proposal as such would already legitimise the decisions taken by the european council in february 2013. financial discipline must take account of parliament's mandate to negotiate the cap reform. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. – 22.8% of young people in the eu are currently unemployed, with youth unemployment exceeding 50% in some member states. 8.3 million europeans under 25 years and an additional 6.5 million young people aged 25–29 are neither in employment nor in education or training. we should start to work on the creation of automatic stabilisers at the eu level, starting with the youth guarantee schemes, which should be accompanied by a quality framework in order to ensure that the education, training and jobs offered include appropriate pay, working conditions and health and safety standards. the member states should improve cooperation between businesses and the educational sector at all levels, with a scope of better linking curricula to the demands of the labour market, more flexible curricula are needed in order to better adapt to future labour market developments. social investment can go hand in hand with efficient incentives, such as employment subsidies or insurance contributions for young people that will guarantee decent living and working conditions, in order to encourage public and private employers to hire young people, invest in both quality job creation for young people and continuous training and upgrading of their skills during employment, and support entrepreneurship among youth.
in writing. it is clear that the european project has reached a major impasse. the eu was seen as an alternative model of globalisation, precisely because of the social aspects of the project. now, instead of looking at the causes of our situation, we're looking for the culprits. the elements that were supposed to unite us - the single currency, eu enlargement, the movement of labour - have become the causes of their division. i think the key issue is the historical development gaps between different parts of the continent, which the crisis has brought to the fore and which austerity is exacerbating. without a consistent and systematic effort to reduce the development gap, the problems we are talking about now will get worse. the relaunch of the european project should begin with deepening political integration. it would be the first sign that the need to reduce the democratic deficit and involve citizens in decisions affecting them is understood, including by increasing the powers of the european parliament, which truly exercises the sovereignty of european citizens.
in writing. the reintroduction of the debate on job creation, with a focus on youth, on the council's agenda, once again shows the alarming situation of young europeans. that is why we need structural reforms at national and community level more than ever to create jobs focused on the young workforce. these efforts should be directed towards: matching community employment strategies to the future needs of the european economy, reducing the tax burden on companies employing young people under 30, and programmes to support the development of entrepreneurship among young people through the creation of special business incubators for young people, increased access to european funds and business advice.
in writing. the june european council will focus on economic policy, addressing three main issues: the conclusion of this year's european semester (coordination of member states' economic and fiscal policies), including country-specific recommendations; the assessment of efforts to boost competitiveness, jobs and growth, with a focus on initiatives to improve youth employment and finance the economy; progress in completing the eu's economic and monetary union, in particular the banking union. we ask the council to focus on boosting competitiveness, jobs and growth. the eu must develop an industrial policy capable of rebuilding european industry in an eco-efficient manner. the eu's industrial development must be accompanied by measures to finance the european economy, so as to ensure both jobs in the eu and the eu's global competitiveness. finally, i believe that the eu must invest in preserving the european social model. without investment in education and health, in decent jobs and in guaranteeing a decent pension, the eu has no future. the eu's most important asset is its 500 million citizens, and it is therefore time for the eu to invest in their present and future.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is about including in this report the same reference to the joint statement by the three institutions as in mr coelho’s report. since the two reports make up a package, it makes sense to have the same reference in both reports.
in writing. - i welcome the vote of my colleagues today and i congratulate my compatriot george pufan. membership of the court of auditors is a position of the utmost importance for each member state, as it ensures transparency, the fight against fraud and the best possible administration of european funds. this is all the more important now that europe is hit by a major wave of euroscepticism and the crisis is still affecting many of its member states. it is therefore very important to ensure that any new member of the court of auditors has both the professional competence and the necessary qualities to carry out such an activity. i am convinced that his experience of more than 10 years as secretary general of the romanian court of auditors, his political independence, as well as the integrity and professionalism he has shown in this position will help him to meet the challenges that the position of member of the court of auditors will offer him.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a natural and necessary step towards aligning the regulation with the new rules of the tfeu. in the same vein, i would like to draw attention to the important role the union has to play in combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. consistency in union policies is needed to achieve development objectives. some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable limit. improvements are also needed in the governance of fisheries at international level, and coordination between external and cooperation policies is essential to achieve this. the eu is still the world's largest importer of fish and therefore must constantly step up its efforts to ensure the sustainable use of the marine environment and its resources.
in writing. − illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a global scourge, accounting for about one third of catches in certain important fishing areas, such as tuna, swordfish, cod and dissostichus eleginoides. by its nature, illegal fishing disregards conservation measures, endangering fish stocks and representing one of the main obstacles to the implementation of sustainable fishing worldwide. in addition, its tendency to play by the rules is contributing to the degradation of the marine environment, the weakening of fish farming and worrying social dumping. illegal fishing is mainly carried out in the open sea, due to the discretion afforded by the vastness of the oceans, and in exclusive economic zones of developing countries that lack effective water monitoring facilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, given the need to align it with the provisions of the lisbon treaty and the importance of the subject of illegal fishing. i call on the commission to apply effectively and efficiently the powers conferred on it by this report in order to combat poaching in the black sea, which has reached a worrying level. given that the majority of the poaching vessels in this area come from turkey and ukraine, non-eu countries, the commission needs to step up dialogue with these countries in the framework of bilateral fisheries management bodies.
in writing. − the existence of a common set of rules at union level for the granting of asylum is part of the efforts to create a single area of freedom, security and justice. i want to stress the importance of respecting the deadlines for informing applicants, but also for resolving their requests. the information must also be provided in a language that asylum seekers understand. i also think it's important to provide unconditional legal and medical assistance. where the detention of the asylum seeker is applied, unaccompanied minors should not be subject to such a measure. last but not least, if protection is granted by the member state, then the integration of the asylum seeker in that state must be guaranteed. access to the labour market, education or vocational training services must be a priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents a great improvement on the existing rules. the new package agreed by parliament and the council brings some important improvements both in terms of the procedures and conditions for receiving and examining asylum applications. the new directive agreed by the european parliament and the council establishes a protection regime for asylum seekers that will better protect their rights, including with regard to detention, which will be applied only as a last resort and under more humane conditions. i would point out, however, that the existing legislation has never been the main problem with the european asylum system, but rather its incorrect application by the member states. the commission must therefore ensure close monitoring of the implementation of the future asylum legislation.
in writing. − in 2012, the eu received some 300 000 applications for asylum (international protection), 7.8% more than in the previous year. however, there are wide differences in the level of assistance provided by member states, differences which this directive seeks to reduce. an important provision is the one on reducing the period during which asylum seekers do not have access to the labour market. the directive reduces it from 12 to 9 months. member states continue to decide on the conditions under which applicants for international protection are granted the right to work, but must ensure that they have effective access to the labour market. i also support this directive because it allows asylum seekers access to the education system within a maximum of 3 months of filing their application and guarantees access to the health system. this ensures that applicants for international protection are treated with dignity and respect in the member state where the application was lodged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because it is well known that some member states, particularly because of their geographical position, are exposed to migratory flows. it is important to ensure a higher degree of solidarity between member states as well as higher standards of protection. the exchange of best practices and staff should become a normal thing at union level. in addition, if applicants cannot have adequate protection in one member state, their resettlement in other member states should be guaranteed. of course, such a measure must also be approved by the persons while ensuring respect for their fundamental rights. common rules in this field can contribute to a more efficient resolution of asylum applications and to the identification of a solution that is most appropriate for the applicants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents a great improvement on the existing rules. the new package agreed by parliament and the council brings some important improvements both in terms of the procedures and conditions for receiving and examining asylum applications. i particularly welcome the improvement of solidarity mechanisms between member states, but i believe there is still room for progress in this area. the new regulation also brings important improvements to the right of asylum seekers to information and appeal, while at the same time providing better protection for vulnerable categories of people. i would point out, however, that the existing legislation has never been the main problem with the european asylum system, but rather its incorrect application by the member states. the commission must therefore ensure close monitoring of the implementation of the future asylum legislation.
in writing. − the regulation brings significant improvements to the common asylum system. the changes to the dublin system introduced by this regulation and the eurodac report allow for the management of multiple applications for international protection, while introducing new measures protecting asylum seekers. until now, asylum applications were processed in the member state where they were lodged and asylum seekers were transferred to the first member state to which they entered the union. the regulation voted today introduces exceptions to these transfers in cases where the applicant has family living in another member state or if they are in a difficult situation, for example because of illness. another innovation concerns surveillance and monitoring, which will make it possible to detect more quickly the elements that can generate crises, especially in the member states bordering the union, in order to avoid the degeneration of situations in which these states cannot cope with a wave of migrants in cases of armed conflict or other situations that cause large groups of people to leave their countries suddenly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that only improvement and harmonisation of procedures and guarantees will make it possible to achieve a common asylum system at european level. so we need all member states to apply similar rules to asylum applications. special safeguards will have to be created for vulnerable applicants such as minors, pregnant women or people who have been subjected to acts of violence. the introduction of references to the best interests of the child is welcome in the context of many mothers or fathers who decide to leave for other countries with their children without asking the other parent for consent. the advisory and expertise services will also play an important role in identifying unjustified or abusive applications more quickly. last but not least, the application of common rules will increase trust between member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents a great improvement on the existing rules. the new package agreed by parliament and the council brings some important improvements both in terms of the procedures and conditions for receiving and examining asylum applications. i believe it is essential that people in need of international protection have easy access to asylum procedures and also have constant access to information and legal and medical assistance. i would point out, however, that the existing legislation has never been the main problem with the european asylum system, but rather its incorrect application by the member states. the commission must therefore ensure close monitoring of the implementation of the future asylum legislation.
in writing. − the concept of a common european asylum system was first introduced by the tampere european council in 1999 and since then much progress has been made. in fact, in 2012, 330,000 people applied for asylum in europe. i voted in favour of this report so that the european asylum system can be further improved, not only by new rules improving the handling of asylum applications, but also by giving the police of the member states and europol free access to the database of asylum seekers, in order to combat organised crime and combat terrorism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive because it improves the reception conditions for asylum seekers. the new feature is that member states can receive financial support to implement the standards drawn up by the second phase of the common european asylum system. if a member state receives too many asylum seekers compared to its resources and population, it can receive immediate financial, administrative and technical assistance through the european refugee fund and the european asylum support office. for example, such technical assistance may allow the asylum interview to be conducted in a language known to the asylum seeker. member states can thus provide asylum seekers with access to an adequate and rapid procedure for receiving asylum.
it seems that in order to stimulate europe's development potential, we have a serious effect on economic and financial growth and we need for the future a better targeting of financial resources and public spending, to create the right conditions to rebuild the european economy. cohesion policy of course plays an important role in this, but it must be accompanied by effective rules at european level and we must take into account the impact of regional state aid, which leads to sustainable development in regions defined at european union level. although there are many voices who disagree with this idea, in view of the economic and social situation in the member states and the danger posed by third countries which enjoy certain advantages in attracting foreign investment, i believe that in the future the governments of the member states must maintain regional state aid in any form at a level at least similar to the present one. only then will we be able to redirect investment to the most deprived regions and eliminate disparities across the european union.
in writing. − poverty and social exclusion are realities that the european union has to face in each of its member states. to meet these challenges, concrete mechanisms have been created to help reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty. the european social fund is one of them, and, in line with this logic, we must also include the new fund for aid to the most deprived people in the european union. the disadvantaged european citizens must be supported to overcome their current precarious financial situation, to live and develop as far as possible from the risk of material deprivation and food shortages. we must ensure that, from the perspective of social exclusion, today's poor children are not tomorrow's disadvantaged european citizens. this is the aim and the potential of the new aid fund: the prospect of helping to improve the lives of people on the margins of european society in the medium term, and to remove them as far as possible from the social disadvantaged and, therefore, from all the risks of poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, as several eurobarometers show, the fight against poverty is one of the most important challenges facing the union. that is why i welcome the proposal to set up a european fund for the most deprived. in the context of the crisis and economic difficulties in several member states, the number of people living in poverty has increased. this is why there is a risk that the europe 2020 target of reducing those living below the poverty line will not be met. the non-replacement of the former aid programme risks increasing the number of people in difficulty at european level. however, i would like to point out that the proposed instrument is not enough to combat poverty, but provides solutions for emergencies at member state level. we need measures to increase employment, especially among young people.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has aggravated poverty and social exclusion across the union. in 2011, 120 million europeans, six million more than two years ago, were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. over 40 million are facing severe material deprivation. one of the main characteristics of material deprivation is the inability to have access to adequate food in terms of quantity and quality. children are particularly vulnerable to malnutrition, and poor dietary habits can adversely affect brain development and learning ability, as well as lifelong health.
in writing. − it is particularly well known that in times of economic stagnation or recession, the number of people affected by poverty increases, while the resources of governments to combat this phenomenon often decrease or remain the same. in fact, according to a eurobarometer survey, european citizens consider the fight against poverty to be the european union's second biggest challenge. the european union's europe 2020 target of reducing the number of people affected by poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million is threatened by the current state of member states' economies. it is worrying that between 2009 and 2011 the number of europeans at risk of poverty increased by around 6 million, which is why i welcome the creation of this new and extremely comprehensive instrument to provide a safety net for the most deprived. even more alarming is the fact that in 2011, there were approximately 25 million children at risk of poverty and exclusion, and if we take into account the negative effects of malnutrition on brain development and health, europe may lose a considerable part of its future generation.
in writing. − through the programme to help the most deprived, which will be discontinued at the end of this year, almost 19 million people benefited in 2011 alone. in order to achieve one of the europe 2020 targets of reducing by at least 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion, we need a new fund for the period 2014-2020. the eur 3.5 billion will be directed to the most deprived people in the member states whose assistance needs are identified by national, regional authorities or partner organisations, or indirectly through the provision of food and goods to the homeless or children. member states will have to plan and provide assistance in line with national systems. the focus should be on persons at risk of material deprivation and food shortages, in particular elderly women in rural areas or with dependent families and women over 45 years of age, homeless persons, children and households with children. the fund is therefore for citizens and must remain an important component of the eu's policy to contribute to the eradication of poverty, material deprivation and social exclusion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) is a sign of european solidarity and an instrument to alleviate the most severe forms of poverty in the 27 member states. the budget allocated to this fund is not to be used as a cohesion fund and the decision to use it is left to each member state. at the same time, combating and eradicating poverty remains the responsibility and obligation of each member state, the efsd being complementary to national policies.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis facing europe has led to a steady increase in the number of people at risk of social exclusion. worse still, more and more children are in this situation. a significant proportion of these people depend almost daily on food parcels or meals distributed under the programme financed by the european fund for aid to the most deprived. as such, it is beneficial for the provision of a healthy and balanced diet to the beneficiaries that local and regional authorities, in partnership with non-governmental organisations, organise local, regional and cross-border management networks that favour the consumption of local products and the use of perishable and non-perishable regional food products that are not traded by food chains. i also believe that food selection criteria need to be improved and, where appropriate, in particular to reduce waste at every stage of the supply chain and improve the efficiency of the supply chain, as well as to raise public awareness of this important issue.
in writing. the vote by which this house approved this report is a sign and a testimony that the only community body directly elected by the citizens is attentive to issues related to the values of social solidarity. we have strongly called for the allocation of 3.5 billion euro for seven years to be maintained for the food funds and social aid for the poor. it is an important signal that we cannot ignore: the commission's proposal is to set up a european solidarity corps to support the european solidarity corps in the event of a disaster. in a time of great crisis, when there are more and more new poor, supporting the basic needs of the poor in the eu is a gesture of fundamental importance, and for this reason we fought for an amendment to the original proposal, requiring that the unspent funds remain tied to the purposes of social aid, and not directed to other purposes.
in writing. − the european union has set itself ambitious targets to reduce the number of people affected by poverty and social exclusion. i am convinced that the european poverty fund plays a key role in achieving the target of reducing the number of people living in poverty by 20 million by 2020. i regret to say that the current economic and financial crisis is hitting the most vulnerable people hardest. at the same time, young people are the most vulnerable victims, and the statistics are a living testimony to this. we have a duty to make sustained efforts to prevent them from becoming a "lost generation". another cause for concern is the growing number of homeless people. i believe that a synergy of the european poverty fund with the financial levers that finance social housing is necessary to reduce this phenomenon. i support this report because i am convinced that the fight against poverty and exclusion can yield tangible results if the tools for integration into working life are promoted and effectively implemented at member state level. we need to create optimal frameworks whereby 'occupational activation' leads to overcoming the social barriers of people at risk of being removed from the labour market.
in writing. as a strong supporter of european solidarity, i have followed this fead dossier closely in line with my ongoing commitment to the pead. the opponents of this fund forget that the citizens have accepted the austerity measures in order to achieve banking, financial and budgetary solidarity. these same european citizens would not understand that the european union, which has the duty to protect them, cannot guarantee them social solidarity through this european fund for aid to the most deprived (fead). as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on the esf, i will vote without hesitation for the establishment of this fund and in particular its mandatory nature for all member states. i encourage the rapporteur to stand up to the european council of ministers in the trilogue negotiations which will be opened shortly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i consider that the maintenance of european food aid is one of the most important achievements of the european institutions in the current legislature. i supported in particular the amendment to increase the financial allocation to eur 3.5 billion, which is still far less than the financial effort made in the united states, for example, to support disadvantaged people. i also show that the eu urgently needs a strategy to reduce food waste, which amounts to over 90 million tonnes a year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the change to the eurodac system will lead to greater transparency of asylum procedures in the member states. the introduction of europol and member states' law enforcement access was necessary because of the abuses being committed by criminal networks in third countries. members of these networks often apply for asylum in the union using false identities. and then they carry out criminal or even terrorist activities in the member states. in the context of the threats facing the union, we need a secure and reliable database. i believe that the regulation is a further step towards creating a common space of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. − the eurodac system enables eu countries to help identify asylum seekers and persons caught crossing fraudulently an external border of the union. by comparing fingerprints, eu countries can determine whether an asylum seeker or a foreign national found illegally in one eu country has previously applied for asylum in another eu country, or whether an asylum seeker has entered the union fraudulently. eurodac consists of a central unit set up within the commission, equipped with a central computerised database for comparing fingerprints and a system for the electronic transmission of data between eu countries and the database.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the reintroduction of border controls in the schengen area must remain a measure used only in emergency cases. until now, the exceptional nature of the situation was not very well defined. that is why i am glad that the definition of 'exceptional' cases has been made very clear. eliminating migration from this category reinforces the idea that free movement is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens. the amendments also limit the possibility for a member state to re-establish controls for too long and unilaterally, thereby preventing possible abuses. the increased role of the european commission in the procedure will also lead to greater transparency and increase trust between the schengen states.
in writing. − the right to free movement is one of the most obvious rights and advantages of the european union. any attempt to restrict this right should be made only as a last resort. careful assessment of exceptions to this right is necessary and only cases considered to represent a serious and imminent threat to public policy and internal security of one or more member states may lead to the temporary reintroduction of border controls. any decision to temporarily introduce such border controls should be taken in agreement with the commission and the member states directly concerned, in order to ensure that weaknesses in the area of free movement are correctly identified and that the best possible solution is found to remedy them, without seriously affecting this fundamental right. in order to prevent cases that may constitute such serious threats, it is of the utmost importance that member states cooperate, consult each other and continuously improve their alternative methods of ensuring public policy and internal security.
in writing. − as the shadow rapporteur for the schengen governance package, i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that it clarifies and limits the conditions under which a member state may introduce internal border controls. from now on, if a member state intends to introduce temporary controls, it will have to consult the commission and the other member states in advance and give detailed reasons for the need for such a measure. at the same time, it is provided that these border controls may be maintained for 10 days in the event of unforeseen events and for 30 days in the event of foreseeable events. these deadlines can be extended up to a maximum of 2 months and 6 months respectively, which is a novelty because there are no maximum deadlines in the current rules. under the new rules, migration cannot be considered a threat to security or public order, meaning that internal borders will not be able to be entered due to migration flows.
i welcome the introduction of the new mechanism because it solves one of the grievances that my country has publicly expressed: the application of a double standard in the implementation of the schengen acquis. i would stress that at the time of the technical assessment, romania was better prepared to join the schengen area than some of the countries that are already members, which we can very easily interpret from the report presented by the commission last week. however, the signal received by prime minister ponta in berlin from chancellor merkel makes it very clear that in the eyes of external partners, there are still important steps to be taken, such as respect for the rule of law, the fight against corruption, transparency of decision-making and legal stability. we all want the socialist government to live up to these expectations and romania to be part of the great schengen family by the end of the year.
in writing. − unlike the current system, which is not legally binding and only provides for peer review, the new system has more effective and dissuasive mechanisms. it will allow for a more accurate assessment of the level of compliance with the schengen rules and for immediate remedial action, which will remove any impression of impunity. member states will be obliged to solve all the problems they encounter. the new system also provides for the possibility of unannounced on-the-spot visits at internal borders, which will help to preserve one of the main achievements of european integration, namely the free movement of citizens within an area without internal borders.
in writing. − with the proposed regulation, we envisage the elimination of a long series of misunderstandings and discriminatory measures by some states, which led to the delay in romania's accession to the schengen area. furthermore, they managed to tie the accession to the judicial cooperation and verification mechanism, which is totally unjustified. that is why we reject a system based on double standards. it is important that the rules are the same for all, because it is unfair to have different criteria and assessment systems for the member states and the candidate countries. i hope that the amendments proposed by parliament will not leave any door open to restricting the freedom of movement of certain citizens of the member states by arbitrary criteria. it is quite obvious that this mechanism cannot work without full mutual trust between the member states. this is achieved through clear, objective criteria for evaluation and, where necessary, joint management of problems. i hope that the adoption of this resolution will speed up the process of accession to schengen for the candidate countries.
in writing. − as the shadow rapporteur for the schengen governance package, i voted in favour of this report, as the schengen area is moving from an intergovernmental to a european approach to schengen evaluation with the commission coordinating the entire evaluation mechanism and not being a mere observer as before. the commission will adopt the annual and multiannual evaluation programmes, lead the evaluation teams together with a representative of a member state, coordinate the follow-up process where potential shortcomings are identified. freedom of movement within schengen will also be strengthened, as the commission will now be able to make unannounced visits to internal borders to ensure that there are no abuses. the european parliament will also have a supervisory role in the evaluation process and will have the right to be informed and receive the relevant documents at each step of the evaluation. this is a major change from the current situation where parliament is not informed at all and does not even have access to the evaluation reports.
in writing. − as eurobarometers also highlight, freedom of movement within the eu is one of the most important benefits for citizens of eu membership. unfortunately, it is still a distant dream for some of the population, even though the countries in question fulfil all the criteria for accession to the schengen area. the governance package, with its two regulations - one establishing a new evaluation mechanism for emergency situations and another amending the schengen borders code - will add a greater community dimension to free movement. more specifically, it will avoid the possibility of abuse when reintroducing border controls, a decision that will be subject to rigorous evaluation criteria. in practical terms, it will guarantee the freedom of movement of citizens and remove the double standards that affect certain eastern european countries. despite the loss of the co-decision power, it will ensure that the european parliament is better informed in the event of critical situations. on the basis of the new mechanism, i am confident that it will be possible to recognise that romania and bulgaria are ready to join the free movement area, as the schengen evaluation is already being carried out in the case of both countries, with positive results.
in writing. − we supported this report because, at the moment, smes represent 99% of all european societies, so we have a clear obligation to take account of their specific needs. repeated amendments to the directives, as well as cumbersome and non-harmonised national legislation, have increased the administrative burden on these companies. statistics show that in romania, as in the rest of the member states, the preparation of financial statements is one of the most burdensome legal obligations of companies. i believe that this directive will reduce the administrative burden on the companies concerned. it will also ensure clarity and compatibility of financial statements across the union, with the main benefits being improved functioning of the single market and increased cross-border trade. i am pleased that we are taking important steps in the europe 2020 strategy, facilitating the transformation of the eu into a smarter, more sustainable and, above all, more inclusive economy.
in writing. − both accounting directives have been in force for 30 years and provide a complete set of rules on the preparation and content of statutory financial statements. when listed companies became subject to the provisions of the ias regulation in 2005, smes became the de facto main users of the accounting guidelines. the commission proposes to replace these two directives with a single directive, better adapted to the present situation and future needs of both those responsible for drawing up financial statements and their users. this proposal complements the 2009 proposal on the financial statements of micro-entities, which was adopted by the european parliament on 13 december 2011. following the impact study carried out between 2009 and 2011, the commission aims to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012 and foresees potential savings of eur 1.5 billion per year for all businesses falling within the scope of the directive.
in writing. − i voted for this report because many member states now impose stricter information requirements than the minimum required by the current directive. in order to ensure equal treatment of companies and to effectively reduce the administrative burden, such excessive regulation should be avoided, as it leads to market fragmentation. one of the most important changes introduced by this directive is the removal of the obligation to submit quarterly financial reports for all companies. access to information also needs to be improved. a european-wide database will facilitate access to companies' financial information and encourage the level of interconnection between member states and cross-border investment. another way to encourage these long-term investments could be to strengthen the legal frameworks in the member states on the penalties applicable to breaches of transparency requirements.
in writing. − given the increasing volatility in global financial markets, investors are increasingly demanding information on the practices of firms. clearly, investors want more transparency to get a complete economic picture of investments and risks. in addition, transparency, as disclosure, is an important indicator of sound corporate governance. companies are increasingly adopting corporate governance standards, including transparency, by joining global reporting regimes such as the extractive industries transparency initiative, in addition to voluntary guidelines for multinational enterprises such as the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and the global reporting initiative, which set the transparency agenda. the introduction of a harmonised system of information on majority holding of voting rights is intended to improve legal certainty and increase transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the common agricultural policy is one of the most important policies of the union, absorbing a significant part of the european budget. since the basic rule governing the union's finances requires the annual budget to comply with the multiannual financial framework and since the sub-ceilings set for the agricultural policy for 2013 have already been exceeded, the commission proposes an adjustment rate for direct payments to farmers. even if the modulation will only be applied to amounts above eur 5000 and that this reduction will not be applied to my country, nor to bulgaria and croatia, i believe that the measure will have negative effects on the union's agriculture, especially in the current period of crisis. that is why i support the report and i also believe that we must reject the commission's proposal and the reduction in direct payments, in order to avoid negative consequences and farmers' protests, such as the protest by milk producers at the end of last year.
in writing. − in order to ensure equal treatment of farmers, i consider that the adjustment rate should only be applied to the amount of direct payments to be granted to farmers for aid applications submitted in calendar year 2013, irrespective of when the payments to farmers are actually made. the unequal distribution of direct payments between small and large beneficiaries continues to pose problems for the cap. this regulation proposes to apply the adjustment rate, under financial discipline, to amounts exceeding eur 5 000, in order to contribute to achieving a more balanced distribution of payments. this is in line with what was proposed on financial discipline in the context of cap reform in article 8 of the commission proposal for a regulation (eu) laying down rules on direct payments to farmers under support schemes within the framework of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − i believe that maintaining the eur 5 000 threshold in the application of the financial discipline mechanism is essential for romania. our country will not have financial corrections for 2013 in direct payments, they are applied only to payments over 5 000 euros.
in writing. - i voted against amendments nos 8, 10 and 11, as i believe that financial discipline for small beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies is not justified. the correct principle to apply in this situation would be that the reductions should only affect those who receive large sums of money or, alternatively, a proportionate reduction depending on the amount of subsidy received.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider that the efforts to implement and continuously improve the area of freedom, security and justice are among the greatest achievements of the european construction. the free movement of persons, guaranteed by the schengen agreement, contributes to the development of a sense of belonging to the union. i also support the need to simplify the rules of the road in the schengen area and to strengthen controls at the external borders, as long as they do not affect the benefits derived from the protection of human rights. i have personally supported on countless occasions the importance of free movement and the imperative that my country should also enjoy the principles of the schengen acquis as soon as possible. in conclusion, i share the logic of the report that, despite the current circumstances in which the concept of urgency dominates political decisions, the union is continuing the integration process by applying policies with a long-term vision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the new schengen verification mechanism will be based on technical, clear and transparent criteria, valid both for member states and for those wishing to join this area. the right of citizens to free movement within the schengen area has also been strengthened, and illegal checks at internal borders will be strictly monitored to prevent abuse. i want the new schengen verification mechanism to put an end to the double standards faced by romania and bulgaria in trying to join the free movement area, and for romanian and bulgarian citizens to finally enjoy a fundamental right enshrined in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the abolition of illegal checks at the internal borders of the european union. customs controls carried out within the schengen area are a flagrant violation of the right of free movement of union citizens. according to the statistics presented, from june 2009 to may 2013, the most frequent checks on buses transiting the schengen area took place at the borders between italy and france, belgium and the netherlands, germany and the czech republic, germany and denmark. approximately 55.3% of buses passing through germany are inspected by customs or other authorities carrying out customs checks. i ask the european commission to ensure that the application of the amended schengen borders code will be in accordance with the principles of free movement as set out in article 77 (1) (a) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
social investment can be seen as an important tool for growth and cohesion, with both short-term and medium- and long-term impacts, especially on employment, which offer important prospects for the european economy. i therefore believe that we need to focus in particular on the possibilities for improvement in the coordination of social policies at european level and not to forget benchmarking, which is extremely important for the less developed and advanced countries in this respect to take knowledge from the more developed countries. i believe that to succeed in this area, we need to pay more attention to developing a concrete european strategy for social innovation, to closing the gaps between member states, to making efficient use of the european social fund and the european regional development fund and, last but not least, to promoting sustainable partnerships between states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the current economic crisis has exposed the inability of social assistance systems to cope with current challenges. whether we're talking about demographic change and the increasing number of older people, or whether there are too many citizens living off welfare, it's clear that we need a change. i think every state needs to evaluate its welfare system as carefully as possible so that the funds it has available are directed to those who really need it. people who receive assistance, even if they do not meet all the legal conditions, as is often the case in romania, should no longer receive any support. only then can we build a society in which the values of work and responsibility prevail.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth sets targets to lift at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion and to increase the employment rate to 75% for the 20-64 age group. social protection systems have three functions: social investment, social protection and economic stabilisation. i believe that investing in youth employment should be a priority and a key component of national social investment strategies. member states should therefore take strong measures to combat youth unemployment, in particular through preventive actions targeting early school leaving or early leaving from training systems, and develop comprehensive strategies for young people who are not in employment and are not in education or training.
in writing. − the well-targeted and efficient social investments help stabilise the economy, promote employment and enhance the skills of the labour force. the member states should modernise, and, where needed, structurally reform their social investment policies without delay, in order to offer the best possible services to citizens. thus, the member states should consider signing a ‘social investment pact’ which would set investment targets and create a reinforced control mechanism for improving efforts to meet the targets of the europe 2020 strategy. the member states should adopt measures favourable to job creation as part of their social investment programmes, such as introducing labour-related tax reforms incentivising employment, promoting and supporting self-employment and business start-ups, improving the framework for doing business and facilitating access to financing for smes, transforming informal and undeclared work into regular employment, creating incentives to improve the employment level of the most vulnerable social groups and integrating flexicurity and modernising wage-setting systems in order to align wages with productivity developments. also, i strongly support the allocation at least 25% of cohesion policy funding to the esf and earmarking 20% of esf allocations in each member state for promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. − i believe that social investment must contribute to reducing early school leaving, improving the quality and efficiency of tertiary and equivalent education, increasing participation and performance levels of graduates, promoting new skills and competences of the workforce to adapt to labour market requirements. on the other hand, measures are needed to help the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed, to re-enter the labour market, investments in education and information to improve labour market outcomes and better match the skills of graduates and workers with labour market demands, and to create working conditions for as long as possible.
in writing. − in the current economic context, many firms from smes to large enterprises relate to various forms of state aid, whether we are talking about subsidies, tax deductions, preferential credits or other exemptions. the granting of such state aid schemes may be one of the ways in which a member state or a region of that state intends to fight for economic growth, the preservation or even the creation of new jobs. these two dimensions must, in my view, be taken into account when analysing the usefulness of such aid, because it is in fact another means available in the community to achieve the same objective: to help european citizens to escape the effects of the economic crisis and to hope for a more prosperous life. in this state aid award process, it is absolutely necessary to pay close attention to the application-approval process itself, on the one hand to ensure that this aid is granted prudently, in line with the economic reality of the company or region, but also that the entire administrative award process does not differentiate between regions and does not prove to be too bureaucratic. i welcome the rapporteur's options and i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the attractiveness of regions for foreign direct investment can be improved by allowing them to provide a range of incentives such as grants, tax credits, incentives, loans or guarantees, but these are limited for large enterprises in c regions and limiting their productive investment in a regions. the european parliament and the council opposed this proposal, agreeing that certain investment priorities should be open to these companies and their productive investments. i support the rapporteur's proposal that the granting of aid should not depend on the size of an undertaking but on its contribution to regional development, employment, the quality of investment or the sustainability of the project.
in writing. − maintaining a high level of competition at european union level is a guarantee of its sustainable development and the social character of the market economy. in the current economic crisis, boosting the competitiveness of european players helps to position them effectively on international markets, helping to meet the needs of european consumers. competition measures must also be without prejudice to the principle of full freedom of movement for goods, goods and persons and to the sectoral regulations of the european union, in order to achieve the optimal functioning of the internal market for goods and services. last but not least, state aid policy, legitimised by the impact of the economic crisis, needs to be aligned with the union's competition policy.
in writing. − i voted for this report because competition policy has proved to be a very useful tool in combating abusive practices by certain economic operators. in the current economic context, enforcement of competition rules is also one of the most important tools available for european economic recovery. an active competition policy focused on removing existing barriers will improve the access and participation of smes and the tertiary sector in the internal market. i would like to mention that i encourage the dispute settlement procedure, in the context of which discouraging fines cause great difficulties for operators and above all endanger jobs. finally, i believe it is very important to encourage and above all to promote a culture of competition both in the eu and globally.
in writing. - i voted for this report. fair competition is a key condition for the recovery of the european economy and for reducing costs for consumers, who pay less for products and services offered under fair competition. in 2011, the commission imposed fines of over eur 614 million on 14 companies in cartel and merger decisions to protect competition. the method of setting fines, as the only instrument to discourage unfair practices, is however laid down in a non-legislative document: the 'guidelines on fines' of 2006. the commission should develop, by means of a legislative document, a detailed basis for the calculation of fines and clear principles for setting them. consumers are only better off when they have access to open and competitive markets, and the commission must discourage non-compliance and unfair competition practices on the basis of the principle of legality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because, in the context of the crisis we are still facing, the union cannot afford to postpone any further measures to coordinate the economic policy reforms needed to strengthen emu and create a banking union. the principles underpinning the future emu must be stability, sustainable growth and democracy. i would like to remind you that the role of emu is to create deeper integration and stronger governance, to which all countries can join, without discrimination against countries outside the euro area. moreover, for a monetary union to work, it requires more than a number of countries using the same currency: discipline and solidarity are essential. special attention should be paid to the principle of transparency and urgency of the monetary union process, all this in the context of the latest eurobarometer showing that romanians have one of the lowest confidence in the positive development of the european economic situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i support the need to strengthen economic and monetary union. economic and monetary union (emu) is a major step in the process of integrating the eu economies. we need a real emu, based on sustainable growth and solidarity. emu must generate stronger integration and governance, and participation in its construction must be open to all member states on a voluntary basis. we need to step up the process of coordinating european economic and political reforms and align them with the instruments of the european semester, as well as with all the instruments generating economic stimulus and solidarity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because youth unemployment is the main problem facing the union today. although a number of policies have been adopted at european level, not all countries are implementing them. one example is romania, which, despite having a youth unemployment rate of 22.7%, is delaying the adoption of the national youth employment plan. moreover, the european commission, in its country-specific recommendations, called on romania to implement the plan without delay. but it seems that the plight of the youth is of no interest to the present government. i believe that it is a priority to focus on technical and vocational education, based on curricula that take into account the demands of the labour market. access to cheap credit for young people is also essential to stimulate entrepreneurship and job creation.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal on the importance of increasing voluntary mobility opportunities for young people by removing existing barriers to apprenticeships and training and to cross-border practice, in order to better match the supply to demand of vocational training activities for young people in the workplace. for these measures to deliver long-term results, and at the same time avoid the risks associated with brain drain, there is also a need to improve the transferability of pensions and labour and social protection rights across the eu. in addition, measures are needed to ensure that sufficient numbers of highly qualified persons remain in the labour market of their communities or return to their member states of origin, with a view to enabling those member states to recover economically and stimulating sustainable growth.
in writing. i have always supported turkey's eu accession process and have opposed the freezing of the negotiating chapters on human rights. it is precisely because i am among the friends of this country that, in the last year, i have been concerned about the state of democracy and human rights in this country. i think that recent events prove to us that turkey has active citizens and involved civically and politically. this is a chance for the country's democratic consolidation. citizens who peacefully protested in taksim square must be involved in the decision-making process . pluralism of opinion and dialogue of ideas is the best guarantee of both democracy and a prosperous european future for turkey and its citizens.
in writing. – the present protests in turkey, almost as violent as those seen during the last years in the uk, greece or spain, and the police reactions as firm as those witnessed in italy or france, are particularly worrying since they occur in the vicinity of a troubled region and in a country needed for regional stability. the causes of this turmoil are neither the economic situation nor the lack of democracy, neither social disparities nor absence of political freedoms. any comparison with the ‘arab spring’ is, therefore, senseless. the deep roots of these clashes could be found in the global crisis of democracy and, maybe, in the continued delay of the eu integration of turkey with its geo-political and psycho-political consequences. therefore the eu must avoid behaving as the moralist wolf. the eu accession process of turkey must not be derailed by these events but accelerated. dialogue is the best way for overcoming the tensions. for its success all sides must show moderation, self-control, proportionality, consistency and good faith. turkey is a major player in the mediterranean, central asia, the balkans, the middle east, the caucasus and black sea. one hopes that no other competitor will fuel or use turkey’s present difficulties.
i am glad that the text of the brok-gualtieri recommendation underlines one fact, namely that the external action service is a new body and that we could not therefore expect full functionality in the first two and a half years of its existence. i think, therefore, that some voices in our parliament have been too hard on lady ashton, given the constraints to which the new institutional construction has been subjected. but there is certainly room for improvement, and i think the key word here is flexibility: flexibility in terms of reallocating resources and staff when political priorities change rapidly, as was the case with the arab spring; flexibility when we talk about the responsiveness of external assistance; but even more flexibility when operational decisions are needed within the common security and defence policy, as was the case in mali. the introduction of qualified majority voting in the council would be useful in such situations, which is, as we know, permitted by the treaties. i would also like to stress that, while not intended to replace national diplomacy, the external action service is a resource in a context where, at national level, budgets for diplomatic and consular representation are being reduced.
in writing. – 2013 is the year of the first review of the newly-established eeas, set up by the lisbon treaty at a time when the current world crisis was not yet a permanent feature of our lives. looking back, one sees the true dimensions of the task confronting the eeas: to construct itself - in a field still subject to national decision - at a time when the eu has been forced to become increasingly inwards-looking and, inevitably, centrifugal, given the propensity of the ms to care more for themselves individually than for the common entity the eu represents. those were huge challenges, given that the eaas was a first-time experience, in the sense that it combined foreign policy, development and defence - which were fields pursued individually and in parallel; that it did not have enough personnel, which had to be recruited and, most important, that it had to react to a number of important issues, many conflictual in nature, while structuring itself. although i personally have my doubts about any bureaucracy, i have to recognise that, in this case, the eaas has succeeded in playing the positive role of doubling national foreign action with eu action.
i would like to refer to the andrikienė report on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion, belief and belief. i congratulate the rapporteur, laima andrikienė, on this very convincing report. the european instrument for democracy and human rights, for which i am the epp group rapporteur, is the main instrument for promoting and supporting freedom of religion or belief within the european union's human rights programmes. i would like to say that i am deeply concerned about the situation of christians, among others, in iraq, egypt, kazakhstan, uzbekistan, pakistan. for example, in pakistan, two little girls have been sentenced to death in the last two years after being accused of blasphemy. one of these girls, aged 14, is still in prison, accused of burning a koran. last week, the tortured body of an 11-year-old christian boy was found abandoned in the punjab region. the pakistani authorities can't let this go, and we can't let them let this go. he must release masih bhatti and take steps to protect the christian minority in pakistan.
the development of guidelines on freedom of religion and conscience is important, as religious minorities are facing serious threats and persecution in many parts of the world. the spirit of fundamental human rights as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights should also be reflected in the european union's external action. the most effective means of enforcing these fundamental rights externally is to ensure that they are guaranteed in all european states. there are no exceptions and no reinterpretations, no double standards, no mechanisms for assessing the application of fundamental rights that are subject to partisan political battles. religious freedom is a value that europe, with its christian roots, has learned to respect at the cost of bloody wars. religious freedom in europe, more specifically in the principality of transylvania, is a european invention, but it is also a christian value. that is why it is our duty as europeans and as christians to proclaim, to disseminate and to defend, if necessary.
in writing. respect for the principles of democracy and pluralism cannot be achieved without the existence of a free, independent and pluralistic traditional or online media. maintaining and strengthening media freedom and independence not only in europe but also worldwide is a common interest of all countries. this is also why independent regulators are needed, precisely to ensure an open and supportive media base. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment, in particular by providing the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment. on the other hand, the european union needs to demonstrate that it is a top political authority to ensure the protection of journalists globally, given that many journalists do not have access to legal aid, although their profession is increasingly at the forefront of the struggle for human rights, whether in the online environment or in the traditional press.
in writing. i welcome the schaake report on freedom of the press and media in the world. the role of online platforms in the fight against dictatorial regimes in recent years has demonstrated the importance of the media in facilitating democracy in the world. it is essential for the eu to recognise the major role that free media, both traditional and online, play in accurately and fully informing the public and in maintaining democracy. not only is the right to freedom of expression a fundamental right, but it is in our collective interest to strengthen the freedom and independence of the media around the world. however, the role of certain platforms in inciting people to terrorist activities should not be ignored and the eu should take strong action in this regard. the commission must strictly monitor the independence of the press in the member states and must pay due attention to the respect of freedom of expression in all bilateral agreements it signs.
madam president, the main challenge regarding transatlantic relations is how to preserve their importance in a rapidly shifting power distribution within the international system, accelerated by the current financial and economic crisis. however, even if the centre of gravity of that system is moving from the atlantic to the pacific, the very substance of transatlantic relations – the values and interests they are based on – do not evaporate. they remain as strong as ever. consequently, the current us strategic rebalancing towards the asia-pacific region – understandable given this region’s role in the world’s balance of power – does not obscure the strong bond created over time between the us and europe. the us will continue to interact substantially with us, and we will honour the pledge to defend europe in case of threat. moreover, the atlantic itself is witnessing turbulence in west africa, the increasing engagement of china and india, and the rise of the latin american emerging powers, bringing new dimensions that require the attention of both the us and europe. under the changing circumstances described above, europe will have to assume a larger role in its own defence through both nato and the eu. it will have to stay engaged in the turbulent area between the atlantic and the pacific, west and north africa, the middle east, the gulf and south asia and support the us in its efforts to avoid conflict in east asia, the area which is becoming the driving force of the world economy.
the partnership between the european union and the united states is based on common principles, values and interests. these desires could not be achieved without ensuring common security, and the best example is the sacrifice of romanian soldiers, along with american soldiers, in iraq and afghanistan. i would therefore also like to stress the importance of the deployment of the missile shield on romanian territory, at deveselu, in view of ensuring the security of the union. the timetable for the implementation of the project is thus maintained and the base will become operational by 2015, which means that the third phase of the programme, namely the installation of a similar system in poland, will also follow the original timetable. the timely completion of the project is good news for both romania and the european union, given the worrying developments in iran and north korea. finally, i would like to appeal to the american authorities to include romania in the visa waver programme in the spirit of strategic partnership and military cooperation.
madam president, relations between the european union and the united states have an impact that goes beyond their bilateral implications, particularly as regards security and defence policies and the strategic stability that we both need. nato’s active layered ballistic missile defence shield provides a significant benefit to the eu and nato countries. the first three phases of the missile deployment are expected to be achieved as planned by 2018, and sites in romania and poland will be included. however, i regret that the final phase of the deployment was postponed until 2022. i strongly believe that this decision should be reconsidered, especially in the light of the present threats. i welcome the continuation of the consultations of the poland/romania/turkey trilateral dialogue on strategic and security issues, which was initiated by romania last year. it is important that the strategic partners in eastern europe hold frequent meetings to discuss the security of the euro-atlantic area.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am glad of this opportunity to talk with you about mali. the moment is particularly timely, as the planned presidential elections are only one month ahead. also, the un is in the process of taking over the african-led international mission to mali. in response to the questions that have been formulated, first, europe has risen to the challenge of this crisis, which has seriously threatened mali as well as the entire sahel region. we acted in line with our strategy for security and development in the sahel of 2011. this policy has been sensitive to respecting the ownership of the legitimate authorities. europeans have been present in a coordinated manner, both through the participation of the eu in the ‘international support and follow-up group’, and of its member states bilaterally. all have acted cohesively since even before the coup d’état of 22 march 2012. they have also delivered considerable emergency humanitarian help of eur 112 million through dg echo and bilateral relief. europe has done much of the international effort to support mali. alongside the french operation serval, the eu’s african peace facility financed the deployment of african troops via ecowas and we have spent eur 50 million on this. the cfsp military mission eutm mali began to train the malian army in april. europeans regularly asked the malians to prepare a roadmap, that was finally adopted on 29 january, and offered support for its implementation. the european union, the major development partner for mali for decades, is also the main international stakeholder in the reconstruction of the country. the important role of the european union was shown at the 15 may high-level international donor conference in brussels that was co-chaired by mali, the european union and france. considerable means for the reconstruction of mali have been pledged, amounting to a total of more than eur 3.25 billion. europe is providing nearly eur 1.4 billion, of which eur 848 million comes from member states and eur 523 million comes from the commission. i am emphasising this not just a typical pledge, it is actually in response to the action plan prepared by the malian side. on the development side the european commission follows a comprehensive approach, whereby we use all instruments at our disposal to address challenges in the short, medium and long term, including inter alia humanitarian aid, an instrument for stability, thematic and regional programmes, as well as a state building contract. the commission aims at the stabilisation of the country, the restoration of democracy and rule of law, as well as mitigation of the crisis that is affecting mali and its population since 2012. the commission has started implementing projects in line with this approach and intends to continue with additional interventions this year in line with the recovery plan for mali that i already mentioned for the years 2013-2014. the vice-president/high representative appointed an eu special representative, who is one of the key players in facilitating the inter-malian talks which aim to ensure the most peaceful possible resumption of state control over the whole of its territory, notably kidal in the north. in brief, europe is present in every priority area stated in the malian roadmap: support to the reform of the army under democratic control, support to the national commission for reconciliation; and support to elections with a european observation mission that will be led by louis michel. our diplomatic visibility and overall credibility are very good. and i may add that, despite some critics, the european union was actually very quick to adapt to a rapidly evolving situation. our instrument for stability package of eur 20 million, put in place in february, has made it possible to address urgent needs for security, state planning, presence and mediation. europe is also active at regional level. aid to mauritania and niger has been topped-up by eur 25 million each in may. concerning security, the csfp civilian mission eucap has started capacity building in niger, and the eu also supports the ‘collège sahélien de securité’ launched by niger, mauritania and mali. nevertheless, the most difficult part remains to come in mali but also in the whole region. it will require our continued attention. in mali, reconstruction is a multifaceted challenge: it will depend to a large extent on the political will of local stakeholders to make real progress on governance reforms. another challenge will be delivering international support effectively. we must avoid the mistakes of the past two decades when donor money did not have the planned impact on governance and development. the reform of the security sector, including justice, and consolidation of the rule of law are also key. the precise international burden-sharing arrangements are not yet fixed, but europe with its member states will be a major player with its capacity-building effort through the european development fund and the instrument for stability as well as through csdp action. similarly, reconciliation in mali will be a complex and long-term process. the eu has mobilised the means to support the national dialogue commission. a conflict resolution and peace promotion project is currently being implemented. but successful reconciliation will require strong commitment by all parties to a negotiated solution. this is at the heart of the ongoing inter-malian talks, which our eu special representative and delegations are facilitating. i also emphasise the question of human rights. the fact that the malian authorities are now sensitising their troops on human rights issues has to be welcomed. but vigilance remains essential to avoid abuses by any party. the eu finances african observers as well, for this reason, but breaches happen and they endanger reconciliation. we are following closely the human rights situation and continue to give support where needed and possible. on a regional level, cross-border security cooperation remains a major challenge, as recently shown with the attacks in niger and in algeria. a lot has still to be done, and the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, and corruption requires considerably more effort. given the situation in libya, we see an urgent need for a regional framework, able to address the saharan dimension of the sahel, which is currently missing. a forum allowing for exchanges between north african and sahel countries, together with international partners, is not only important for immediate security issues but also for long-term socio-economic challenges. in short, i believe we can provide more comprehensive support to the malian people, but we cannot replace one thing: the will of malian stakeholders really to rise to the challenge. i expect very much that the developments of last month gave an assurance that they will do everything to rebuild, to strengthen the country, towards addressing the issues that have been hidden and not addressed for quite a substantial time, but it is really mali that is leading this effort. we provide the necessary support in each and every area, and it is very significant support.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i will begin with the news item we are all following: in ouagadougou, under the authority of president compaore, an agreement is being signed on the situation in kidal and each of us knows how important this signature is for the normalisation of the situation, since otherwise the elections will be in danger and the holding of elections cannot be imagined with such a fragile situation in kidal. but let us remain optimistic and return to the central question of our debate today, namely the question of reconstruction. we have seen a successful military intervention - french forces have already been congratulated on several occasions - and there have been promises of aid, including the 'together for a new mali' conference. these are extremely important promises because the country's needs are indeed immense. i would just like to remind you that the resources of the malian government fell by 30% after the coup d'état in march 2012 and that almost half a million people were forced to abandon their homes. tens of thousands of them are still in refugee camps. medical services and access to education have not yet been restored in the north and, according to credible estimates, nearly one million malians are at risk of starvation. this is the challenge of reconstruction and, of course, as the commissioner has stressed, europe has a role to play in this context.
in writing. afghanistan is located in a critical region from the perspective of international security. that is why i also want to welcome the progress in the negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and afghanistan. the completion of the negotiations and the signing of the agreement will provide a strengthened framework for political and economic cooperation for the next decade. the main areas that the agreement will have to focus on are development, trade and good governance. romania is participating with combat troops in afghanistan, having one of the largest contingents. that is why it is also in the interest of my country that afghanistan stabilizes and that after the transition period, afghan institutions are fully functional. in this context, the decision to extend the eu-pol mission until the end of 2014 is welcomed.
cameroon is the only country in central africa to have negotiated an interim economic partnership agreement with the european union following the expiry of the world trade organisation's waiver of unilateral preferential trade arrangements for african, caribbean and pacific states. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been able to obtain a sufficient level of protection from the union market. i believe that the european parliament should give its consent to the economic partnership with cameroon, because it would be a model for the rest of the central african countries, which do not yet feel ready to start negotiations with the european union in this direction. at the same time, cameroon must ratify the agreement as soon as possible in order to benefit from its full benefits.
the millennium development goals were drawn up in a spirit of solidarity to meet the needs of the least developed countries, which face extreme poverty, alarming infant mortality rates and scarce natural resources. so far, three key goals have been achieved: halving the percentage of the population living in extreme poverty, improving access to safe drinking water, and reducing the rate of urban poor from 39 percent to 33 percent. however, the commitments of developed countries to help narrow the gaps need to be matched by real political will at global level. poverty eradication as well as sustainable development must be at the top of the post-2015 development agenda, while avoiding setting a new set of targets without identifying concrete ways to achieve them and the sources of funding.
the second revision of the cotonou agreement was one of the first files i followed on behalf of the epp group at the beginning of this parliamentary term. three years later, we are finally called upon to approve the conclusion of this agreement, while the next revision of the text is already scheduled for 2015. we all know the difficulties in negotiating this second revision, in particular - as has already been stressed here - the compatibility of the human rights provisions with the values of the union. but i think it is time to take the pragmatic option of approving this text. we must ensure that the cotonou agreement remains the basis of a strong partnership with the acp countries and at the same time a relevant instrument in the context of the new challenges facing the acp countries. after the acp-eu association council adopted last week the financial protocol with a generous financial allocation of eur 31.5 billion for the financing of the 11th european development fund, our agreement is all the more important. in this context, it must be recognised that the review contains the necessary ingredients for more effective development cooperation, capable of contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals in the acp countries:
the idea is to replace ‘jihadist groups’ with ‘radical islamist groups’.
in writing. − despite delays in ratification, the agreement represents an important intermediate step towards greater regional integration of the central african states. cameroon is the most dynamic economy in the region, and the removal of trade barriers with the union can contribute to the country's further development. and so the transition to an emerging economy by 2035 could be favored. the union is cameroon's largest trading partner and the economic partnership agreement will further promote the development of bilateral trade. the support measures will also lead to the strengthening of good governance in the region. i also want to welcome the inclusion of a human rights clause in the agreement, which creates additional obligations for the signatory parties. in this way, democratic reforms in central africa will be encouraged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the amendment to the cotonou agreement confirms the importance that both sides attach to the partnership. at the same time, the union's commitment to supporting states in difficulty is reaffirmed. correlation with the millennium development goals can help to achieve them. however, i think more could have been done in terms of human rights. i consider that, in this respect, the proposed amendment is not sufficient. there are still many signatory states to the agreement which systematically violate human rights, and parliament has drawn attention to these abuses. nor is the issue of tax havens or the readmission of illegal immigrants addressed. however, in the context of the approaching deadline for the third revision of the agreement, i believe that the current text provides a good basis for discussion.
in writing. - i voted for these recommendations. the eu's 'more for more' principle, reaffirmed in 2011, calls for strengthening political and economic relations with partners who are making progress towards democratisation. i believe that this principle should be the basis for the new amendment to the cotonou agreement. the way in which the aid is distributed must be in accordance with the performance standards of the signatory states as set out in annex iv, article 3 (b). the evaluation criteria shall take into account, inter alia, the progress of the implementation of institutional reforms and the concrete results of the programmes in the implementation phase. the second amendment to the cotonou agreement does not take these standards into account. taking as an example the non-compliance with the cotonou standards of ethiopia and congo, union aid to ethiopia was eur 644 million in the period 2008-2013. in the case of congo, the aid granted between 2008 and 2013 was eur 584 million. in the period 2014-2020, funds under cooperation with acp states amount to usd 31,5 billion. i call on the commission to reassess the democratic development of the acp states and to reallocate funds in direct proportion to the progress of the acp countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because romania, as a country that has long been under a communist dictatorship, understands very well the importance of media freedom. one of the major problems with media impartiality is the political control exercised over some media institutions. especially since these media can, in turn, exert pressure on state institutions as was recently seen in the european commission report on romania's progress in the cvm context. the union will not be able to be a real driver of media independence in the world until it has solved its own internal problems. this is why, if not uniform and harmonised legislation, at least a single code of professional conduct in the eu would be desirable.
in writing. − according to the freedom house report, press freedom in the world is at its lowest level in a decade, and only one in six citizens today lives in a country with a free and independent press. in my view, governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting freedom of the press and media. at the same time, a balance needs to be struck between national security concerns and freedom of information, in order to prevent abuse and guarantee the independence of the press and media. last but not least, a warning sign should be sounded regarding the media empires owned by politicians, who sometimes carry out disinformation campaigns. it is essential that the press and media can operate independently and without political and financial pressures.
in writing. − the economic crisis has had clear consequences on freedom of expression, even where the political power has not intervened in the media. economic censorship is no less dangerous than political censorship. if we can act consistently against political censorship, economic censorship is much harder to crack and fight. it is not the press, not the internet, not social media that are "to blame" for the discontent of citizens in their countries, but bad governance. under these circumstances, restricting freedom of speech is tantamount to adding fuel to the fire of discontent. democracy and pluralism are the best environment for asserting the needs and expectations of citizens, for decent solving of their problems. censorship doesn't solve problems, just as restricting freedom of speech for whatever reason, even in established democracies, can't lead to better governance, progress and prosperity.
in writing. − the right to freedom of expression is a universal human right, which is at the heart of democracy and is essential to the realisation of other rights to which people all over the world aspire. i believe that at european level, a strategy on press and media freedom should be adopted within the framework of the european union's external policy and the recommendations of this report should be integrated into future guidelines on freedom of expression (online and offline).
in writing. − although many reports suggest that the press in the european union is working in increasingly better conditions, there is still room for improvement to strengthen the position of journalists and the independent status of the media. i think paragraphs 29 and 30 raise a pressing problem for the press and media in the european union. i insist on paragraph 29, which talks about monitoring some of the mass media for unethical and allegedly illegal behavior. paragraph 30 underlines, as in other recent parliament reports, the need for monitoring by the commission of the independence of the press and media. i call on the member states to ensure that the freedom of the press and media is guaranteed and protected. i ask the european commission to monitor closely the freedom and independence of the press and media, as well as the abuses committed by journalists in breach of ethical provisions.
in writing. − freedom of the press and media in the world has become an increasingly worrisome topic and i have therefore strongly supported the adoption of this report. i am mostly concerned about the interference of governments in press and media issues. journalists all over the world are too often subject to pressure by powerful political media groups which try to impose a political line on them. as the report points out, governments have the responsibility of guaranteeing and protecting the freedom of the press and of ensuring the right of journalists to report freely and to have access to information. governments often fail to do this, not only in third countries, but also within the eu. i find this to be particularly worrying; therefore i am pleased to see that the final report acknowledges the fact that the eu can only be credible if its own member states respect the freedom of the press and media.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the data and information produced by the public sector of member state governments and by the union institutions or bodies constitute a vast pool of resources. these resources are diverse and valuable, they can be a source of knowledge, but also an accessible tool in ensuring the transparency that is so important to our citizens. i am among those who encourage the wide availability and reuse of information for private or commercial purposes and its distribution, not only to economic actors, but above all to all interested persons. finally, i would like to mention that, where possible, all this data should be provided in electronic form.
in writing. − i believe that, in order to facilitate re-use, public sector information should be made available in automatically processable and technologically neutral formats, so as to avoid, as far as possible, situations where specific technology is required for document processing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because the recovery of the economy is an absolute priority for the union at the moment. the union's institutions must work together effectively, they are not in competition with each other but interdependent, and delays in decision-making make it impossible to complete the financial work. certain urgent matters should be concluded before the end of this mandate, but their implementation requires the cooperation of the commission and the council. i would remind you that econ has asked for an impact assessment of european legislation and i believe that it should be carried out as soon as possible. the lack of coordination and reaction of the institutions feeds the statements of the eurosceptic groups, as well as the negative myth of the 'european bureaucracy', creates uncertainty and does not facilitate investments, and, in the end, those directly affected are the citizens.
in writing. − the situation in turkey has worsened overnight since the outbreak of peaceful protests in gezi park in istanbul, with the response of the security forces leading to the rapid spread of protests in several cities. the violent police intervention resulted in four deaths and over a thousand injuries, mass arrests and severe damage to public and private property. i believe that turkey must respect the principles of a pluralistic and inclusive democracy in order for all citizens to feel represented in the decision-making process. the turkish authorities must promote tolerance and guarantee respect for the rights of all citizens to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and peaceful protest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i too am concerned about the situation in turkey. until now, the country has been a pillar of stability in the region, and in the context of the syrian crisis, its role in humanitarian efforts has been very important. i would like to appeal to both the authorities and the protesters to refrain from any violent actions, which would only further strain the situation. i think we need to start a dialogue between civil society and the government to address the issues that have led to the current situation. both the european union and the states of the middle east need turkey to be stable.
in writing. - the situation in turkey is part of a complex regional context dominated by the civil war in syria. the causes of the protests in istanbul and other major turkish cities are much deeper and more serious than the simple rejection of a real estate project. turkey has enjoyed years of economic growth, but the growth has come at a political and social cost, and the fruits of that growth have been unequally shared. despite turkey's commitments in the process of negotiating its accession to the european union, the political regime in ankara is evolving towards authoritarianism, which is why the people on the streets in turkey are dissatisfied. the brutality of the turkish police has left many dead and wounded. violence may end the demonstrations, but it doesn't solve any of the problems the protesters claim. we must make it clear to the erdogan government that it will not solve anything by force, that it must enter into dialogue with the protesters and, above all, that it must respect its commitments made in the process of negotiating accession to the union. the eu and the middle east region need a democratic, stable and prosperous turkey, not a country gripped by a fever of protest and repression.
in writing. the compromise reached in turkey between the secularism of the state and the rule of political parties was the first step towards an islamic democracy. for example, former interim president mohamed hussein tantawia states: "turkey's experience is the closest to the egyptian people. turkey is a model to be inspired by. in the 14 days of protests in turkey, 4 people died and over 5,000 protesters were injured. but the authorities' violence against protesters in taksim square, prime minister erdogan's claims of zero tolerance towards protesters and calling protesters "extremists" are human rights violations that can only be cited as an example of "do not do". in a democracy there is a culture of protest and that is what turkey needs to show. being a democracy means having the right to free speech, the right to assemble and associate, the right to protest.
in writing. − the establishment of the european external action service (eeas) and the enshrinement of the function of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy by the treaty of lisbon underlines the desire of member states to act together in a coherent manner in the various areas of the union's external action. this is a very important step for the whole of european construction, which is why every effort must now be made to exploit the potential of the union to act on the international scene. this requires an improvement in the efficiency of the functioning of the eeas, which is currently proving to be deficient in some areas. in order to ensure the full functionality of the eeas, i support a review of the organisation and functioning of this service. i believe that improvements can be made in the operational decision-making and implementation processes in the area of the common foreign and security policy, which are currently too slow. i support the simplification of the command structure of the eeas, as well as a strengthening of the role of its executive secretary-general by establishing a clear chain of command in support of an efficient decision-making process and a timely political response.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that the establishment of the eeas was a major step in defining a genuine foreign policy for the european union. i want to encourage the further development of the service as, in my view, the union needs to strengthen its external profile. however, i would like to point out that there are shortcomings in achieving a geographical and gender balance among the eeas staff. the new member states are still under-represented at all levels. that is why i believe that a medium-term solution for a fairer and more transparent recruitment procedure will have to be found. i also think that the gender balance issue will have to be addressed, especially in the top positions. but only with respect to the criteria of merit and performance.
in writing. − the eeas will need to become an efficient, results-oriented organisation as soon as possible. this seems to be affected for the time being by the current structure of the eeas, which is overburdened at the top and marked by too many decision-making levels. a more rational staff structure could make the eeas a flexible and adaptable instrument, capable of acting in crisis situations. as the report shows, the weaknesses of the service have become apparent in the context of recent events in north africa and the middle east, areas of interest to the eu where we should have been more present and more active in diplomacy. i also note the need for better coordination between institutions and good governance on international development issues so that the eu can adopt a unified vision and gain visibility. the eu has experience in designing, financing and managing development programmes in partner countries, some of them highly sensitive, that address the active fight against poverty. it is in no one's interest to draw parallels that lead to the waste of already limited resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european external action service (eeas) needs to be coordinated more effectively. the european commission and the eeas should also avoid overlapping their activities in order to make decision-making more efficient and to respond in a timely manner to international challenges. last but not least, the european parliament must have a bigger say in how the eeas operates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation. however, i believe that the clear progress made in setting up the european external action service does not eliminate the problems of the functioning of the service. the crisis in mali and the situation in syria have highlighted a number of procedural and communication deficiencies in the eeas. the european external action service is an opportunity to pursue a coherent foreign policy. i support point 3 of this recommendation aimed at simplifying the hierarchical structure and defining the roles of eeas representatives for greater institutional coherence. this simplification is made possible by the unification of the external policy structures of the commission and the council secretariat. i stress the need for cooperation between national embassies and eeas delegations. this can be achieved through a system of joint political reporting between the two courts.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it very much echoes the concerns of the european parliament about the organisation of the european external action service (eeas). it makes it very clear that the eeas must make further efforts to make europe's voice heard in the world, and that this can only be done by improving synergy and cooperation between the institutions of the european union and the member states so that the eeas can respond quickly and appropriately to events in the world. a second reason for my vote is the definition of the objectives of the eeas and in particular the reaffirmation of the 'community' character of the neighbourhood policies. finally, the report proposes to achieve economies of scale with greater conciliation with the member states in order to reduce costs, particularly in consular services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, but i appreciate that the recommendation should have stressed the issue of geographical balance in the selection and appointment of eeas staff. i recently asked the european external action service to answer the following questions: what is the number of staff of the european external action service; what is the provenance, by member state, of eeas staff; what is the provenance, by member state, of eeas staff in management positions; what measures will the eeas management take to achieve a more pronounced geographical balance in the selection and appointment of staff. the reply received referred only to the total number of persons employed by the eeas, avoiding to provide the specific information requested. i consider the reply to be a lack of transparency on the part of the high representative.
i too supported mrs andrikienė's report, especially since i was on a working visit to serbia last week, a country with european aspirations, where i saw firsthand that religious freedom is being violated. in eastern serbia, in the timoc valley, ethnic romanians do not have access to religious services in the romanian language; moreover, the activity of the romanian orthodox church has been banned. that is why i would like to draw your attention to the case of priest boian alexandrovici, of romanian origin, from the village of malajnica, who built the first church in the timoc valley where services are held in the romanian language and where, at the moment, he is also carrying out his work. as a result, he was excluded from the serbian clergy. i want to assure the ethnic romanians that i will do everything that a member of the european parliament can do to stop the abuses by the serbian authorities.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe it would endanger freedom of religion, one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i believe it is the right of parents to educate their children in accordance with their beliefs, whether religious or otherwise. that's why i agree with the rejection of any interference in education.
in writing. − i believe that the european parliament must maintain its position as the initiator of a set of instruments to promote the right to freedom of religion and belief as part of the european union's external policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of mrs andrikiene's report because i think it is essential that the european union is strong and united on these issues. at a time when many religious communities are being persecuted - christians in the east in particular - it is the duty of the european union to reaffirm its values, in particular that of respect and tolerance for the faith of others. i fully share this view and therefore vote resolutely and firmly for this resolution of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which i consider balanced. i would like to stress the importance of religious education in schools as a means of promoting the moral and social values on which societies in the member states of the european union are founded. i draw attention, however, to the danger of approaching religious education in schools in a strictly dogmatic way, characterized by a rejection of modernity. this kind of dogmatism must be avoided in european educational institutions.
in writing. − i believe that the european union and the us should work together to strengthen regional and subregional organisations in the atlantic basin, given the important role these organisations play in promoting economic and political integration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because, after the french military intervention, the situation in mali seems to have stabilised. but at the level of homeland security, there are still areas that present risks. i believe that holding the elections in july is a major test for the authorities in bamako, but also for the security of the country. the eu training mission will have an important role to play in the period ahead, especially in the context of the phased withdrawal of french troops from mali. but we need other kinds of support besides military training. in the past, there have been numerous reports of military personnel trained by foreign experts defecting to join rebel forces. internal dialogue and rule of law reform in mali must be encouraged to prevent such events from recurring. and the involvement of civil society is very important to legitimize the actions of the authorities.
in writing. − the stabilisation of mali following the french military intervention remains fragile without a process of national reconciliation and without a sustained effort to heal the region of its worst scourge: chronic poverty. the sahel would not have become a 'no man's land' conducive to extremist activities without the hunger in the region. mali has the second highest infant mortality rate in the world, after somalia. the armed conflict has exacerbated the situation of 4.6 million people affected by persistent food insecurity and forced half a million residents to flee their homes. the european commission's humanitarian response to the food crisis in the sahel has been swift and substantial. this effort must be reinforced by coordinated development assistance to ensure that the population has access to water, food, housing and basic health and education services. only a regional development effort can be the real stabilising factor, after the eradication of terrorism, which is fuelled by the conflicts in the ivory coast, libya and mali.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because eradicating global poverty must remain a priority objective of the union and of all developed countries. the millennium development goals remain a priority in the union's development assistance policy. but i must also point out that not all the targets will probably be met by 2015. promoting gender equality is still a problem in many countries. also, access to clean water sources or decent health services remains difficult in many areas of the world. i believe that after 2015, the union, as the world's leading aid donor, will have to focus on making poverty eradication efforts sustainable. assistance must be geared to job creation and decent education and health services.
in writing. − the post-2015 mdgs should include a number of specific objectives, emphasising their cross-cutting nature across development cooperation programmes. among these, i mention the need to accelerate global action to reduce maternal, infant and newborn mortality, with universal access to reproductive health services being key. research into more effective and sustainable prevention and treatment programmes, including research and development of effective medical interventions, including vaccines, medicines and diagnostics, should be further supported. i call for the implementation and enforcement of specific and effective policies to combat all violations of women's rights to life, bodily integrity, freedom of movement and choice of partner, including so-called 'honour' crimes, forced marriage and female genital mutilation, regardless of who commits them and where they are committed. all countries must ratify the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women in order to promote gender equality. quality basic education must also be ensured for marginalised populations, in particular in rural areas, conflict-affected areas, for children with disabilities and for children in employment.
in writing. − equality of opportunity is a key factor for sustainable development, yet discrimination persists in all countries of the world in women's access to education, the labour market, basic health services, especially reproductive and sexual health, and in decision-making. at the same time, domestic violence and physical abuse continue to be major obstacles to achieving gender equality, blocking women's opportunities for social assertion, economic initiative and personal development. in order to build on the progress made so far, we must take into account that women's empowerment, socioeconomic independence and gender equality are preconditions for achieving the mdgs. it is necessary to fully integrate gender equality into country strategies and development indicators by including the gender gap index in the criteria for measuring the achievement of the mdgs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that poverty eradication and the achievement of global social and environmental sustainable development should be the priorities of the post-2015 development agenda. it is also important to include a specific target on the elimination of all forms of violence against women, and to recognise the right to abortion and contraception as universal rights, which are essential to achieving the mdgs. i therefore believe that the new framework should be a universal one, including a limited number of concrete objectives and measurable targets to meet the needs of the least developed countries, which face extreme poverty, a worrying infant mortality rate and a lack of natural resources.
in writing. − i believe that addressing malnutrition among mothers and children requires long-term development strategies at european level, focusing on sectors that influence malnutrition, such as health, education, water and sanitation and agriculture.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i stress the need for a concerted effort at european level, to be highlighted in the future framework document 'towards a post-2015 development framework'. furthermore, for greater coherence at european level, i support the alignment of the sustainable development goals with the post-2015 millennium development goals. the european union's common position must contain key development and sustainability issues. according to the study by the european parliament's foreign affairs department, the main challenges for the post-2015 framework are the so-called 'non-profit' dimensions of poverty: inequality, human rights issues, marginalisation and exclusion. it was decided to allocate 0,7% of the gross national income of the member states to official development assistance (oda) by 2015. i insist on the need to implement this directive at national level. the european union is the world's largest donor and must assume this role in the context of the redefinition of the post-2015 agenda. we need to take into account the disparities between underdeveloped and developing countries at international level in order to make the implementation of the millennium development goals more effective.
in writing. the european union must play a leading role in the achievement and definition of the post-2015 millennium development goals. this is the whole point of this report, it ensures that poverty eradication, respect for human rights in the interests of peoples' peace and security, environmental sustainability of the actions that can be carried out and the necessary strengthening of cooperation between donors to improve the financing of actions are taken into account. it is as a convinced european and believing that europe must give a voice to help the development of the planet that i gave a positive outcome to my vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and stress the importance of references to agriculture and private sector development in achieving the millennium development goals. i regret that the issue of supporting small farmers to produce enough food has been distorted by a rather inappropriate feminist approach. as regards the votes on abortion, free access to contraception and sex education, i would point out that i voted in favour of these rights, which i support, especially in view of the tragedy that romania went through during the communist period as a result of the prohibition of these rights.
mrs muñiz said earlier that perhaps it is not a good solution to discuss, in our thursday afternoon session, an emergency resolution on russia. i wonder if a discussion of the results of the eu-russia summit would have been better. the question is, in fact, whether there are any notable results of this summit between the european union and russia that would have been worth more discussion, a full discussion in plenary? i think not; i did not think the summit ten days ago brought anything remarkable. instead, after the duma passed the law on non-profit organizations in november 2012, we all see that organizations more or less known are subject to intimidation by the moscow authorities. and this really makes us think; we all wonder whether there is a temptation to rule of law in russia or not.
in writing. article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union prohibits discrimination of any kind on grounds such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, ... age or sexual orientation. according to polls, almost 50% of citizens of the russian federation believe that lgbt people should not have equal rights with other citizens. in addition, recently, moscow authorities have taken extreme measures to prevent any demonstrations in support of lgbt people, banning such demonstrations in moscow for the next 100 years. international human rights groups consider the situation in the russian federation to be the most hostile to lgbt people in the post-soviet period. the government uses homophobia and xenophobia to justify policies and actions against independent civil society. i support this resolution because we must condemn discrimination and these laws against freedom of expression, association and the right to privacy.
on behalf of the epp group. condemns the detention of ilgar mammadov on 4 february following peaceful protests by ismailis in january 2013. the reasons for the arrest and conviction were not disclosed. mr mammadov's conviction was based on trumped-up charges of involvement in violent actions against politicians. i remind you that the protests of the ismailis were peaceful, and the right to assembly, to association, to free expression, including criticism of those in power is the essence of the sovereignty of the people and constitute fundamental rights that cannot be violated. the irony is that mammadov wasn't even present at the protest. i call on the azerbaijani authorities to release ilgar mammadov and the other detainees and to stop abuses against those who are critical of the government. we live in a time when fundamental rights are constantly violated, as we have seen during the recent events in turkey and russia. we must not leave them like this: we must fight for democracy every day.
i want to join those who are protesting against the way the azerbaijani authorities are going about their relations with the european institutions. the treatment of the representatives of the osce in europe and the council of europe in baku is indeed disappointing, especially as azerbaijan will take over the osce presidency next year. i condemn the unproven and politically motivated arrest and unlawful detention for more than four months of one of the opposition leaders, ilgar mammadov, a candidate in the october presidential elections. unfortunately, although azerbaijan is actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy, the human rights situation has been deteriorating severely in recent years. we call on the azerbaijani authorities to ensure a democratic electoral process and to respect the rights of the opposition and media freedom, including online media, which are threatened by the new criminal regulations. i hope that president barroso and the european commission will express more firmly the european union's view on the need to respect human rights in direct dialogue with president aliyev and the azerbaijani government.
mr president, we have just mentioned the possibility of having a debate on the situation in egypt and all the groups, including the ppe group, agree on the need to discuss a situation which is very sensitive. we have also just decided, rather quickly, to adopt a resolution on the situation in egypt. it should be remembered that the conference of presidents has already decided to have an emergency resolution on civil society in egypt. i therefore believe that we cannot have two resolutions on egypt in the same sitting. it's a little much. either we have the debate proposed by mr cohn-bendit, without a resolution, and we then maintain the emergency resolution on egypt, or we have the debate proposed by mr cohn-bendit, with a resolution, and we move the emergency resolution that has already been adopted. we cannot adopt two resolutions on the same country at the same session. i therefore suggest that you hold the debate on egypt as proposed and that you maintain the emergency resolution or perhaps postpone it for a later date.
mr president, i propose that we vote on the abandonment of the emergency resolution, because if we adopt a resolution such as that proposed by mr cohn-bendit, we cannot adopt a second one the next day. i therefore propose that you drop the emergency resolution which was agreed earlier. so we can now vote on the emergency agenda for thursday afternoon.
member of the commission. - madam president, as mr[nbsp ]seeber knows, it was not an easy negotiation. more than 10 council working party meetings, seven coreper meetings, three trialogues and two technical trialogues were held with a view to reaching the first reading agreement. you have done a very good job to make this possible. without the european parliament’s help, the deal on the watchlist and the strategy on pharmaceuticals would not be as good as they are. on the question of cost, which was raised today, whenever we make a proposal we do an impact assessment, and nothing comes for free. we always have to look at both sides of the question and determine firstly how much it would cost to remedy and secondly how much it would cost not to remedy. i can guarantee you that, if we do not remedy such problems, the next cost review in five to 10 years’ time and impact assessments will show that not remedying them will cost even more. so we would have even more reasons not to adopt that kind of solution. it makes all the more sense for us to compare the costs and benefits at all times. whenever we do that we try to be balanced because we understand that this has to be done in a way that benefits human health and the environment but that is also cost-efficient. concerning the science, all the proposals are science-based. we went through the whole list of proposals and, if i remember correctly, the list was very long. science is constantly advancing and we will take into account whatever new evidence and data is shown to us in the future, whether from interested parties, the business sector, academia or wherever. this is such a serious issue that it simply cannot be done any other way. what is important now is to implement the proposal and to work as closely as possible with the member states. that is exactly what the commission intends to do. i would like to thank you all, and the rapporteur, for giving your support to the proposal.
brussels recommends, in the latest mcv reports, the socialist government in bucharest to use emergency ordinances strictly in situations provided for by the constitution and only in case of emergency. despite having a 70% real majority in parliament, the ponta government has begun to take over the functions of the legislature, thus violating the principle of separation of powers in the state. since the beginning of the year, the executive has passed no less than 80 emergency ordinances that have amended important laws. the all-time record was set at the january 26th meeting, when no fewer than 22 emergency ordinances were on the executive's agenda. i would point out that they will be debated in parliament in the autumn, after the summer break. by comparison, right-wing governments passed only 14 such ordinances in the first five months of last year. by this way of governing and legislating, the usl is only creating a profound democratic deficit.
i asked to intervene to appeal to victor ponta, the leader of the romanian socialists and crin antonescu, the president of the pnl. the two forced romanian mps from the socialist and alde groups to vote against the european council agreement on the multiannual financial framework in march. they have indicated that they could thus obtain more money for romania in 2014-2020. my country had already achieved more than in 2007-2013 at the european council in february. ponta and antonescu didn't get a penny more, nor could they: demagoguery doesn't help you have a bigger budget. i ask them to stop selling illusions and to stop pushing the meps they control to reject the budget for the next seven years. i also ask them to eliminate corruption in the management of european funds. corruption is the biggest obstacle to using these funds for the benefit of citizens, not the mafia-like political networks.
the reporter. - air transport supports 5.1 million jobs and contributes €365 billion (2.4%) to european gdp. it makes a major contribution to economic growth, tourism development and the union's regional and social cohesion. one of the key elements of competitiveness is connectivity. the union is based on foreign trade. air transport, airports play an important role in connecting europe with the rest of the world. therefore, support is needed for a highly ambitious agenda for this sector. liberalisation is necessary and has its place. at the same time, however, the union must promote and defend its own standards and interests. particular attention should be paid to labour and environmental standards, safety and security, passenger rights and, in general, compliance with european regulations. the european commission must define a minimum set of requirements to be included in bilateral agreements, in order to defend european interests, values and good practices. at the same time, we must insist on comprehensive agreements at european level, based on european unity and authorised by the council. the agreements must include conditions relating to safety, security, passenger rights, staff training and certification. the efforts made over the last 7 years to implement an external aviation policy, even if at a high level, have proved insufficient. a common approach, coordinated at european level, is needed to increase the union's chances of penetrating new markets. air service agreements with brazil, australia and new zealand need to be finalised, agreements with emerging economies need to be negotiated: china, india, asean, the gulf states, and so on. the agreements with neighbouring countries such as ukraine, lebanon, tunisia, azerbaijan and algeria are development opportunities for regional and secondary airports and can at the same time help to decongest the main european hubs and increase their global competitiveness. the congestion of the main european airports is evident and creates disadvantages for new hubs in third countries. new infrastructure is needed and the existing infrastructure needs to be used efficiently. competition must be transparent and fair. there are still elements that distort the market, subsidies, lack of transparency, non-compliance with social standards, unequal approach to passenger rights. the external aviation policy must fully respect the principle of reciprocity, including market access, address all air services activities, fair and transparent competition and have two main objectives: the benefit of passengers and companies and supporting european companies and airports in their efforts to maintain their leading position on the world market. the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to speed up the implementation of the two european projects of major importance to the aviation sector: ses and sesar. in this respect, i would like to welcome the commission's proposal, ses2+, which, although not ambitious enough, can be improved and can be a very big step forward for the efficiency of air transport within the union. we ask the commission to examine measures that can ensure reciprocity in the use of airspace between the union and the russian federation. the trade agreement between the united states and the european union will also affect air transport. the commission should consider the removal of restrictions on the ownership and control of airlines, both in relation to the united states and canada.
member of the commission. - mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr danellis, the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the associated committees of the european parliament for this report. i am referring here to the committee on transport and tourism, the committee on regional development and on the committee on fisheries. they have produced a very good report and i am happy that all speakers have recognised that this report and our initiative on blue growth contain a set of forward-looking proposals with a realistic and coherent framework. i would like to welcome the fact that the report endorses the five key areas identified by the commission as having particular potential for job creation and the application of innovations. these five areas are: blue energy, aquaculture, maritime and coastal tourism, marine mineral extraction and blue biotechnology. having said that, let me come to some specific points. with regard to shipbuilding and seaborne transport in general, it is true that we are facing some difficulties, as the rapporteur and other members have underlined. but i would also like to underline that there are many ways to contribute to the sector’s sustainable growth, such as by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, removing administrative barriers, cutting red tape and promoting innovation. here we still have a margin for improvement. on maritime and coastal tourism, i agree with the report that the first challenge here is making sure that the risk skills for the workforce are there. the commission will come up with a communication on maritime and coastal tourism before the end of this year. finally, on the importance of integrated sustainability, i share the concerns expressed here by some members about the need for sustainability in all these actions. i fully agree that the environmental dimension needs to be mainstreamed into any blue-growth initiative. we need to preserve our natural environment if we want to benefit fully from the opportunities it offers, and not to destroy it as we have done in some cases. that is why a substantial research project on mineral extraction and its environmental impact is now being negotiated under the european framework programme. we expect this project to begin in the autumn. there is no denying that we need to step up our recycling efforts. i can agree on that, but despite this we will never manage to provide the steady supply of raw materials which our industry needs. we propose examining all options. mineral extraction can create new jobs and new economic outlets, as well as spin-offs in technology developments and guarantees for a secure supply of raw materials. as the rapporteur and others have said, this must come with the precondition that this or any other emerging sector is part and parcel of a wider sustainability effort. more specifically, we need to make sure that, if a man-made tool of any kind touches the bottom of our seas, strict environmental standards are observed, no matter whom it belongs to. this is what we intend to do; this is what is going to happen. i would like once again to thank the rapporteur and all the speakers and all the members of this house for their support on this blue-growth initiative.
in writing. in the context of the resolution on blue growth - strengthening sustainable growth in the eu's shipping, maritime transport and tourism sectors, i would like to underline the importance of the danube strategy, which involves the 14 eu member states and third countries in the danube basin. the danube region is the eu's second macro-region, and the challenges it faces impact not only the lives of 115 million people, but all european citizens. the €100 billion of cohesion policy funding for 2007-2013 has enabled important projects to be carried out, and financial support must therefore continue in an effective framework in the next financial perspective. i particularly stress the importance of continuing the projects initiated in the fields of environmental protection, biodiversity, fisheries resources, but also in the fields of transport and tourism. the danube can make a significant contribution to blue growth, and exploiting its full potential is also essential for improving living conditions in the region.
cooperatives are a very important community-based and proven management tool in the european union. in the central and eastern european region, their status and functioning were unfortunately somewhat compromised during the communist period. their role in dealing with the current protracted crisis is undeniable. their number and importance have increased in all member states. the employment rate in these companies is on the upward trend and, despite the complex crisis, they are more resilient than traditional companies and even have a strong role in integrating the workforce at regional level. cooperatives are more open than traditional businesses. their flexibility in new and innovative sectors demonstrates the adaptability that has enabled them to sustain their activities. their strategy is a collective solution. a single regulatory framework at union level could increase the competitiveness of a number of activities organised within the cooperative sector by harmonising the positive mechanisms inherent in the cooperative model.
in writing. in recent years, it has been observed that, despite the crisis facing the european economy, there have been and are a number of entities that have withstood the recession, namely cooperatives. by enabling small entrepreneurs, often groups of citizens, to take on entrepreneurial responsibilities, including in areas such as social and health services, school services, commercial services, communications, cooperatives have been able to effectively promote entrepreneurship on a micro-economic scale, especially in remote or disadvantaged areas. cooperatives thus represent a model of development capable of responding to new needs. they stimulate job creation better than other models due to their ability to adapt to change and keep their job at risk, are anchored in the local economy, contribute to sustainable local development and ensure that their business is not off-shored, even when operating internationally. in addition, cooperatives have been created in new and innovative sectors and there is evidence that such structures have been able to withstand the crisis, in particular with regard to cooperative banks and cooperatives in industry and the service sector (workers' cooperatives, social cooperatives and cooperatives formed by smes).
in writing. the european council has adopted the country-specific recommendations in the context of the european semester. in the case of romania, in addition to recommendations on further fiscal consolidation, combating youth unemployment, and education reform, further measures to reform the health system are required. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans. health reform is imperative. unfortunately, this has so far only been done at the declarative level. the lack of medical staff, inadequate salaries and conditions in romanian hospitals are problems that need to be addressed urgently by the romanian government. access to health services for disadvantaged people, such as roma, is another issue that will need to be addressed. a medium- and long-term plan is needed to address the shortcomings and implement the european union's recommendations.
in writing. the agreement reached at the european council last week is a success of our legislative forum, following the council's acceptance of key amendments to the initial version of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. even if the total budget remains at the level set at the february council meeting of 960 billion, this is offset by the flexibility in the use of funds, in particular by the possibility of carrying them over from one year to another and from one budget chapter to another. this will allow sectoral funding to be supplemented in its initial form. the social measures decided, in particular the increase in funding to combat youth unemployment and those related to research, are intended to help mitigate the effects of the crisis by stimulating job creation and innovation-based economic growth. the compromise version of the eu budget for 2014-2020 offers the basis for breaking the current political impasse. i hope that this will also lead to the long-awaited economic recovery.
in writing. the european council of 27-28 june 2013 focused on: youth employment; growth, competitiveness and employment; the completion of economic and monetary union; mobilising financial resources to support reconstruction and prevention in flood-affected regions and member states. i welcome the allocation of eur 6 billion to the youth employment initiative, which should be operational by january 2014. they also recalled the importance of the erasmus programme, which promotes crossborder vocational training, and of measures at member state level to modernise vocational and technical education, strengthen cooperation between education and business and reduce social security contributions. as regards the implementation of the pact for growth and jobs, i stress the importance of rebuilding europe's industrial base. according to eurostat statistics, four of the 27 member states germany (≥27,29%), italy (≥12,44%), the united kingdom (≥11,93%) and france (≥11,65%) accounted for more than 60% of eu industrial production in 2010, and 10 member states together accounted for less than 4% of it. we ask the european council to ensure that all eu member states benefit from the eu's industrial development. finally, i welcome the opening of accession negotiations with serbia.
given the crisis we are going through, the budgetary problems of the member states, the financial discipline imposed by the new european regulations, the mff agreement can be considered a success. if we take into account the political and social situation in the union, the rise of populism and the decline in trust in the union, we can also say that an agreement was reached under difficult conditions and that it can be considered as a support for european stability. a multiannual budget is preferable to an annual budget, it helps to maintain the unity of the union. however, if we consider that the budgetary procedure of the lisbon treaty was applied for the first time, we can say that the european parliament did not use the advantages offered by this procedure, namely co-decision for horizontal policies. the union's budget was decided in the european council and, due to the unanimity requirement, by a small number of member states. but there is an agreement and we must welcome and respect it. flexibility and rectification are important improvements achieved by parliament. however, we must not forget that important decisions are still needed by the council for the current financial year: two budgetary adjustments for 2013 amounting to eur 13.2 billion, absolutely necessary to meet the commission's commitments, in particular for cohesion policy. i would add here the implementation of the february 2013 european council agreement on the application of the m+3 rule to romania and slovakia. i would like to thank the irish presidency for both the cfm and the agreements on the other horizontal policies.
in writing. - i voted for this report and i would like to congratulate everyone involved in the negotiations on the result achieved. the current economic context needs to be addressed with a spirit of solidarity, and in some member states there have already been similar changes. in the light of the new rules, european staff, vital to the efficient and proper functioning of the eu, are prepared to deal with the financial problems we face. moreover, i believe that a positive message has been sent to the citizens, who, in this period of austerity measures, need to be made aware and reassured that eu officials are not a privileged category. finally, i consider it essential that a balance has been struck between saving money and ensuring that the institutions function optimally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation and i support this proposal because i think it is very timely. together with the imperative of maximum safety conditions for the design, construction and operation of nuclear power stations, the proposal is part of the current logic of reducing the union's energy dependence. it is therefore necessary to consider the possible consequences for individuals and to provide victims with fair compensation in the event of damage caused by nuclear accidents. i welcome the decision to put an end to the lack of uniformity between member states on the rules governing the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage. finally, i am awaiting the european commission's commitment to extend the option of giving priority to union rules to the member states that ratified the protocol prior to accession to the union. this is also the case for my country, which ratified the protocol in 1998.
in writing. − the international regime of nuclear liability is governed by both the vienna convention and the paris convention. member states do not have uniform procedures for the rules on the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of decisions in nuclear damage matters; the commission is therefore considering from now on the definition of certain measures to ensure the primacy of eu rules even in the event of ratification prior to accession to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion. accession to the 1997 protocol amending the 1963 vienna convention must be the obligation of any state for the protection of human rights. the purpose of this protocol is to provide greater protection for victims of nuclear disasters and to provide for compensation commensurate with the seriousness of the damage suffered. i would draw attention to the need to respect the provisions of the vienna convention and the 1997 protocol. the fukushima accident showed the damage caused by nuclear disasters, among other things, serious long-term health problems, such as thyroid abnormalities and increased risk of cancer, but also serious environmental problems that affect human health. it calls on the member states of the european union, in particular those using nuclear energy, to accede to, sign and ratify the vienna convention and the 1997 protocol on civil liability for nuclear damage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the introduction of mechanisms for assessing the compatibility of aid and investigations ensures improved compliance by member states with state aid rules. this will achieve the objectives of better implementation of the europe 2020 agenda and budgetary consolidation. even if the economic situation has improved since the beginning of the crisis, it is essential to continue our efforts in providing state aid. i welcome the proposals to improve the handling of state aid complaints, as this would increase the speed and effectiveness of the aid award procedure. at the same time, enhanced supervision by the commission of member states' aid is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and competition in the union. between 2009 and 2011, romania's right-wing government granted $450 million in state aid to finance investments worth over 2.5 billion euros.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that there is a need to modernise the procedures for granting state aid. the european parliament supports the european commission's proposal for better management of complaints received. i also supported, as shadow rapporteur for my political group, the idea that the european executive should be able to ask market participants directly for information on state aid, if member states do not provide complete information. in my view, this would only increase transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because aviation policy can help to strengthen the industry, especially as many airline operators have been affected by the crisis. but to be coherent externally, we need a common approach at eu level, because the results would be a greater competitiveness of european companies. the commission also notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain a profit before tax on the airport services agreement with ryanair. reform of the air traffic management system will be essential. especially since it represents the third largest cost for airlines, after fuel and airport taxes. i also believe that the union must apply the principle of reciprocity in its relations with third countries. this is all the more important as union air operators are often affected by unfair competition.
in writing. − the free movement of people in europe has led to a significant increase in the number of low-cost airlines in recent years, which can only be a boon for european citizens. on the other hand, this steady increase can represent a new model for strengthening competitiveness and must be linked to investments in airport infrastructure, even if, at the moment, demand does not yet exceed supply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that aviation is an important sector of the european economy, creating over 5 million jobs and representing some €365 billion of european gdp. the modernisation and competitiveness of this industry should therefore be pursued, in particular by promoting investment in airport infrastructure, but also by streamlining travel flows, for example through the use of automated and semi-automated solutions. at the same time, there is a need to improve international cooperation and to establish partnerships with third countries and regions. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's aviation policy.
in writing. − the european commission's report on the activities of the export credit agencies of the member states is a useful tool for the european institutions, the member states and the economic actors themselves alike. moreover, it can contribute to the economic development of the european union in a context where overcoming the effects of the prolonged economic recession is imperative. at the same time, however, the extremely important data contained in this document raises another problem for the european union. both economic development and the emergence of the union as a global political actor call for greater coordination of trade activities with external policy. the achievement of more effective cooperation between the council's export credit working group, the commission and the european external action service is beneficial for all actors involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because export guarantee and insurance is a very useful tool in the context of the difficulties faced by many european companies. the crisis has reduced exports in many european countries, and importing countries have also had difficulty paying for goods on time. as you know, export guarantee agencies hold a large share of the debt of developing countries. i therefore believe that their role has become increasingly important at european level. however, the costs of guaranteeing or insuring exported products must remain competitive and the transparency of the sector must continue to increase. we therefore need as accurate a reporting as possible from the member states on the work of the agencies.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a statute for european foundations aims to remove the tax or legal obstacles currently faced by foundations wishing to operate in more than one eu country or those wishing to donate money to a worthy cause outside their own country. as more and more foundations carry out cross-border activities in areas of public interest, such as medical research, climate change, education or training, it is necessary to regulate the status of such foundations. given that there are currently more than 50 pieces of legislation applicable to foundations, as well as a host of administrative procedures which are difficult to complete, especially for those who are foreigners to the legal system of a member state, the approved regulation can only facilitate and encourage foundations to continue the cross-border work they are undertaking.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is also a sign of appreciation for the work of european foundations in various fields. these foundations are important for the european economy and citizens, for example through the social and health services they provide or the encouragement of research and the promotion of culture. at present, foundations face difficulties in carrying out or intensifying their activities in another member state due to complicated administrative procedures. their activities are often costly and difficult to carry out because of differences in national legislation. the common statute for european foundations will facilitate both the pooling and transfer of resources and the pursuit and expansion of their work across the eu. finally, i would like to welcome the inclusion in the statute of provisions on transparency, accountability and the use of funds, as a guarantee of quality and reliability.
in writing. − i support the commission's initiative to have a common statute for european foundations at european level, which could help these non-governmental organisations in their work in all eu countries, especially as the over 110 000 public interest foundations in the eu provide jobs for 750 000 1 000 000 european citizens and employ some 2 500 000 volunteers. such structures operate in the union in the public interest in important areas such as education, vocational training, social and health services, youth, art, culture, sport, the environment, historical memory and reconciliation between peoples, and in most cases the projects carried out are cross-border projects with partners from several eu countries. as such, we need to provide foundations with the appropriate tools to enable them to pursue public interest objectives at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there should be a single statute for european foundations carrying out activities which fulfil objectives of european public interest. these foundations are extremely important for carrying out value-added activities in various fields such as education, research, social and health services, arts and culture, but also for promoting european identity and values. there are currently over 50 pieces of legislation in the european union regulating the work of foundations, which makes it difficult for foundations to operate in more than one european country. a common statute applicable to european foundations is therefore needed as this would be an important support both for their activities and for job creation, especially among young people who are involved as volunteers in these organisations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr regner's report on the european foundations. the role, tasks and activities of foundations in europe must be given special attention in order to strengthen and make them more effective in the future. in this sense, this report is also an invitation to the member states to take advantage of this momentum to promote a rapid and complete introduction of the statute for european foundations, ensuring transparency and seeking to remove all bureaucratic and operational obstacles, with a view to a truly european activity.
in writing. − european foundations are the most important non-profit organisations promoting european identity. the fact that they operate on a voluntary basis in the fields of education, youth, art, sport and culture requires us to give european foundations a greater importance, giving them a status that gives them international legal protection and at the same time minimises administrative costs. i support and encourage young people to create and further develop european foundations, as they are the engines of european integration. in addition, the granting of an appropriate status to european foundations is a further step towards pro-european development.
in writing. − i voted for this report and stress the need for clear provisions on the representation of volunteering in the union. there are 2.5 million volunteers in the european union and their contribution must be recognised as professional experience. the european voluntary service offers youthpass certificates, which attest to the non-formal experience acquired by volunteers, but this is not recognised as professional experience. by regulating volunteering we can increase the employment rate of young people in the european union. according to the labour force survey, over five million young people are unemployed, accounting for 22.8% of the union's population. one reason for the lack of employment of young people is their lack of professional experience, although volunteering experience is professional and must be legally recognised. in addition, young volunteers have already proved that their willingness to contribute to society, their dedication to goals and ideas, their initiative, their strength, and their willingness to work are a guarantee of success for themselves and their employers. i am convinced that the regulations on volunteering in european foundations will help to increase the employment rate and liberalize the movement of young workers, with benefits for society and employers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because non-compliance with the rules applicable to maritime transport allows certain vessels to navigate in unsafe conditions, endangering both human lives and the marine environment. so we need a set of minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. the maritime labour convention will eliminate unfair competition and, in particular, undeclared work. this will promote and enhance the sector's image and protect european interests worldwide. unfortunately, the current government in romania is delaying ratification of the convention. the deadline given by the european union was the end of 2012. i would also like to stress the importance of increasing the attractiveness of maritime professions. i believe that the current move will encourage more european citizens to work in this field.
in writing. − following the example of the aviation sector, europe wants to develop appropriate mechanisms to verify compliance with maritime rules on working and living conditions on board ships. these are rules that must be applied on board all ships calling at eu ports, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ship, with the aim of also limiting social dumping, which undermines working conditions and penalises shipowners who offer decent working conditions in line with ilo rules. i also support the proposal on the importance of making maritime professions more attractive to european citizens, including by improving working and living conditions on board ships, and the establishment of minimum international standards will also allow for measures to be put in place to ensure that they do not constitute an excuse to reduce the current levels of protection provided for by european social legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the mobility of citizens within the eu is and will continue to increase. therefore, there is a need to reduce the administrative burden in relation to vehicle registration. the exchange of information in this field will also become essential at union level. we must insist on combating fraud and the illegal trade in stolen vehicles. another point in the report that i would like to stress is the validity of the vehicle inspection certificate. this certificate should be recognised in the event of a change of ownership or re-registration of the vehicle in another member state. i also think that the date of the last technical inspection should be entered in the registration certificate of the machines or the date of its expiry. i mention that this is already happening in romania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it improves the roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles as well as road safety in the european union. in cases where the technical condition of a vehicle creates an serious risk to road safety, new measures such as temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the vehicle’s registration will be taken. this will notably enforce the roadworthiness testing and roadside inspection regime. the introduction of these rules ensures that vehicles which constitute an imminent risk will not be allowed to be on the road anymore. moreover, in order to permit better harmonisation, member states should have closer cooperation concerning the exchange of information on roadworthiness certificates. they should do so by using national electronic databases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because on europe's roads five people die every day in accidents caused by technical problems. these accidents can be avoided. the tests and checks carried out should certify that the condition of a vehicle is such that it can be driven on public roads. regular inspection is a guarantee of compliance with safety standards. given the volume of commercial vehicle traffic between member states, more measures are needed to improve the efficiency of controls. commercial vehicles must be subject to more frequent and more stringent checks to prevent accidents. i also consider it very important to implement a harmonised system of data exchange. by linking databases at member state level, the effectiveness of controls would increase.
in writing. − i supported this report, which is part of the ‘roadworthiness package’ because the european union needs tougher vehicle-testing rules to save lives. in the union, technical defects contribute heavily to accidents and they are responsible for 6 % of all car accidents. although our habits on the roads have changed because of the increasing number of drivers, new cars and technologies, the eu’s current minimum standards date back to 1977, with minimum updates. we also have to take into account the fact that the internal market is becoming more interconnected and goods have started to move across the european union in high numbers. this is why this is a major issue for the european union’s road safety and its citizens today. on this matter, harmonisation in the eu is once again of great importance. the standards for the assessment of deficiencies, the level of knowledge and the skills of the inspectors performing roadside inspections based on the requirements for periodic roadworthiness tests will help avoid unfair treatment and increase the overall efficiency of the tests.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, after excessive speed and non-compliance with the rules of the road, the technical condition of motor vehicles is the third cause of accidents in romania. regular roadworthiness testing can be an important tool in their prevention. moreover, the increasing mobility of people across the union justifies the need for harmonised legislation in this area. environmental protection issues must not be neglected, because 5% of the car fleet causes 25% of total emissions of pollutants, and a significant part is generated by vehicles with problems with the emission control system. finally, i would like to stress the need for better training of vehicle owners. basic checks such as tyre pressure are minor preventive measures but have a major impact on road safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it establishes eu minimum standards which are of the greatest importance for the union’s cohesion and road safety. if the member states want to go further, they will be free to set stricter rules. periodic testing should be used as the principle tool to ensure roadworthiness. this is why awareness campaigns will be developed in the eu to accustom vehicle owners to good practices and habits. if users are aware of the risks, they will certainly have better practices, and in consequence, tests that will detect deficiencies in a motor vehicle’s roadworthiness in time will also prevent many accidents. this report upholds the principle of free movement within the european union since the roadworthiness certificate issued in the original member state of registration should be mutually recognised among the member states for the purpose of re-registration. in the future, when the principles of this report will have been completed, provisions for full mutual recognition of roadworthiness certificates throughout the union should be applied, and the eu will reach a new level in terms of road cohesion and harmonisation.
chemical pollution, as we know, directly or indirectly affects not only the lives of aquatic animals but also the lives of the citizens of the european union, and water pollution cannot be stopped at the border, which is why i believe that a joint effort is needed to achieve positive results in combating pollution. the replacement, elimination or introduction of chemicals has a negative impact on all watersheds and should be a concern for national and european policies in the coming period. i am seriously concerned about the inclusion of three new substances in the list, used in the pharmaceutical industry, namely 17beta-estradiol, the synthetic hormone 17alpha and, last but not least, the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac, which have endocrine disrupting properties, and we should therefore do everything we can to remove these substances and to ensure the benefits of clean watersheds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because water pollution is one of the problems of concern to european citizens, chemical contamination being a threat to the aquatic environment. unfortunately, there is no correct information in the field. the objective of the 2000 water framework directive is to achieve good environmental status by 2015. the updating of the list of chemicals presenting risks and the proposal to add new substances considered dangerous will improve the effectiveness of the directive. however, the decision to include substances used in the pharmaceutical industry in the list could have consequences for health policies in the member states. last but not least, i would like to inform you that a project to monitor the danube waters has recently been launched in romania, which will also include activities to inform the population about the correct management of waste.
in writing. − chemical pollution is one of the factors that increasingly affects the aquatic environment and the quality of safe and clean water in our society. therefore, taking appropriate measures to control chemical pollution of water is a central aspect of sustainable water management. the water framework directive (wfd), adopted in 2000, adopts an integrated approach to water policy, focusing on water management at the level of river basins, setting a sustainability target of achieving good overall ecological, chemical and quantitative status for eu water bodies by 2015. the dca sets out in particular strategies to combat water pollution. this report adds 15 chemicals and 33 pollutants to the list that are monitored and controlled in eu surface waters, including industrial chemicals, biocides, plant protection products and, for the first time, three substances used in the pharmaceutical industry. these substances have been selected on the basis of the available scientific information as they may present significant risks.
in writing. − water pollution is one of the main environmental concerns expressed by eu citizens. the water framework directive is our key tool to improve water availability and quality by reducing chemical pollution. in the current context, an amendment to the water framework directive is necessary to have a clearer and more effective water pollution control strategy, capable of ensuring the conservation of a balanced aquatic environment and preventing dramatic damage to the environment and human health. identifying the causes of pollution and tackling emissions at source as effectively as possible must be a priority. it is therefore very important to identify and monitor possible sources of pollution and to apply systematically the fundamental 'polluter pays' principle laid down in directive 2006/60/ec. the transboundary nature of water pollution is of particular importance. for this reason, it is appropriate to establish harmonised standards at union level for priority substances and to require member states to notify exceedances of these standards as soon as possible. i also consider it important to provide citizens with adequate, transparent and timely information on the state of the european union's waters and on the measures taken and results achieved in the context of strategies to combat chemical pollution.
in writing. − chemical pollution is one of the factors that greatly affects the aquatic environment and the availability and quality of safe and clean water in our society. i believe that appropriate measures should be taken to control chemical pollution of water under the water framework directive.
in writing. − i voted for this report as i agree with the added effectiveness it will bring to the commission proposal to amend the water framework directive (wfd). a 2012 survey revealed that 73 % of europeans think that the eu should propose additional measures to address water problems. these problems are largely the result of chemical water pollution affecting both aquatic biodiversity and public health, and so should be addressed as a matter of urgency. in particular, i sympathised with the principle that the polluter should pay the full amount of funds necessary to rectify the environmental damage they cause at source. it is part of the policy of preventive action as detailed in article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. these measures are designed to improve, on an international level, the quality of the environment, rationalise the use of natural resources and improve public health. the ‘polluter pays’ principle is key to achieving these fair and sensible objectives, especially in the context of water policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because ensuring the compatibility of state aid with the treaty prerogatives is a vital process, especially in the current context. otherwise, we risk facing serious distortions of competition. i consider it necessary to lay down clear and limited exceptions to state aid for innovation. we must not forget that innovation has become a priority of union policy in the context of the 'innovation union' initiative and the europe 2020 strategy. i support the use of aid schemes or systems, to the detriment of individual aid, to ensure a level playing field in accordance with the principles of the internal market. national state aid schemes must aim to guarantee open and equal access for all relevant market players.
in writing. - i voted against this amendment because i do not agree that sport, at amateur level, has no economic implications. at the same time, i regret that at commission level my attempt and that of other colleagues to include non-profit-making social, educational and health services in the list of state aid exempted from prior notification was not voted on. this seemed to me to be a much more important aspect than amateur sports, which often involve economic activities.
in writing. − social innovation is a priority of european policies under the europe 2020 strategy and i welcome the proposal that innovation may also benefit from state aid, especially as innovation aid measures are of relatively low value and do not create significant distortions of competition, and that the general block exemption regulation will specify the conditions and types of aid that may be exempted for this area.
in writing. − supporting economic growth and sustainable development must not ignore the marine dimension. this remains a key component of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to the objectives of sustainable development and the smart use of natural resources. ensuring sustainable growth in the eu's marine areas cannot be achieved without a close collaborative process between european and national actors. modernising regional infrastructure, developing vocational training programmes, and accelerating the exchange of good practice between public authorities in different european countries are essential to achieving 'blue growth'. last but not least, it should be borne in mind that this strategic direction of action can contribute to the development of the sme sector, as long as it ensures access to adequate sources of finance. in addition, while overcoming the effects of the recession is a priority for the european union, it should not be forgotten that the development of maritime regions can lead to the creation of no less than 7 million jobs. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i would like to stress that, although more than two years have passed since the parliament's resolution calling on the european commission to develop a black sea strategy, no progress has been made so far. the black sea is a key strategic and economic region for the european union. therefore, the development of energy or transport infrastructure projects could lead to economic growth in the area. from an energy point of view, the black sea can contribute to ensuring the energy independence of the states in the area. whether it's projects like agri, offshore or shale gas in the coastal area, romania has tried to tap the potential that the black sea has. but i believe that better and faster results can be achieved through a regional effort based on a coherent strategy.
in writing. − technological advances and the demand for new sources of sustainable development could increase the size of the maritime economy to €590 billion by 2020, providing a total of 7 million jobs by 2020, provided they are supported by training policies that ensure a satisfactory level of expertise and experience. the commission should, together with the member states, draw up an action plan to promote professions directly or indirectly linked to the blue economy, in order to attract people to work in this field. initiatives on labour mobility between economic sectors and between member states, such as the multiannual action for the exchange of students, teachers and young professionals, following the model of the erasmus programme, should also be promoted. cooperation between companies and organisations providing training for graduates is important in order to prepare them for employment in the new fields of activity. furthermore, the european commission should cooperate with representatives of maritime sectors and training providers in order to establish and finance european sectoral employment councils to record jobs, changes in required skills and relevant educational requirements.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy gives a strong place to european marine policies, with the aim of enabling the union to respond to the pressing and growing challenges facing humanity, including climate change. in addition, europe's long and strong maritime tradition is reinforced by new and developing activities such as wind energy, cruises and offshore aquaculture. these areas, as well as new technologies such as robotics and advanced marine equipment, require a constant encouragement of cooperation between industry and academia in order to prepare graduates for new professions that are constantly evolving and adapting. as such, i support the rapporteur's proposal on the establishment and funding of 'european sectoral employment and skills councils'. they will enable the relevant authorities to record new employment trends in order to develop new training initiatives to promote worker mobility.
in writing. − cooperatives, alongside other small and medium-sized enterprises, play an important role in shaping the social economy sector in the european union. their work contributes not only to economic development but also to the promotion of cohesion and solidarity, thus giving relevance to the european social model. at the same time, their work needs to be brought to the attention of national and european decision-makers as a result of their growing importance both in terms of the number of jobs they have created and their contribution to the growth of the european economy. european and national decision-makers need to stimulate this type of economic association, especially in the context of the recession, precisely because of the greater flexibility of cooperatives. they can be one of the points of affirmation of microeconomic entrepreneurship in a context that is extremely difficult for 'classic' enterprises. moreover, the transfer-to-employees solution should be more frequently considered by national authorities when seeking to ensure the continuity of an economic operator. i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the usefulness of cooperatives must be recognised, at least in certain areas. i am referring first of all to agriculture, because that is where the results are best seen. it is clear that the association of several agricultural producers can lead to higher profits than those obtained individually. there are also employee-owned companies in the united states that benefit their employees directly. regardless of criticism, as long as jobs are created and the union's competitiveness is improved, cooperatives can be useful. one problem that will need to be addressed is access to capital markets funding, which unfortunately is still limited for such companies.
in writing. − cooperatives are a development model that can respond to new needs, especially since they are firmly anchored in the local economy and have very good results in terms of growth, employment, survival rate and opening of new businesses and development of new services. they also contribute to sustainable local development and ensure that their work is not off-loaded, which is significant in this time of crisis. in addition, cooperatives stimulate job creation better than other models because of their ability to adapt to change and to keep their business in case of risk. it is also beneficial that there may be groups of individual cooperatives organised into large entrepreneurial groups, covering sectors such as industry, agriculture, distribution, finance, research and development and higher education.
in writing. − adopting bio-economic principles can lead to both lower production costs and lower prices for eu products and to a reduction in the polluting effects of economic activities. the institutional transition to a genuine bioeconomy, capable of ensuring both sustainable development and social inclusion or the rational use of natural resources, is essential for the european union in the light of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is imperative that member states and the european union stimulate innovation and investment in this area. this dynamic is not possible, however, without close cooperation with the private sector. national and european authorities must also ensure an institutional pathway for rapid and efficient dissemination of the results of the research process, stimulating cooperation between research institutes, universities, the private sector and the general public. the development of the bioeconomy sector can also be one of the appropriate solutions to the difficult financial and economic context facing european societies at the moment millions of union citizens are already working in this sector, which has the potential to create a significant number of jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the current european model needs to be rethought to meet the challenges of the future. the growing population, the demand for food and the dwindling natural resources tell us that we need a new approach to economic growth. the bioeconomy is a relatively new concept. but through the production of industrial goods at low prices, reduced energy consumption and reduced pollution, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy can be achieved. romania has implemented several bio-economy projects in the field of waste collection and recovery. at the same time, local authorities and smes have been involved in the creation of the reserve for the protection of biodiversity in the danube delta and the lower prut region. however, i am concerned about the phenomenon of illegal deforestation of certain areas in romania, which is why i support the development of legally binding standards.
in writing. − the bioeconomy represents an important opportunity to respond to today's challenges, ensuring not only increased sustainability but also supporting rural development, a potential reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, increased sustainability of the production cycle and the spread of industrial innovation along the entire value chain. the bio-economy strategy can be the solution to fossil fuel dependency and the pathway to smart economic growth. i believe that it is necessary to guarantee and develop coordinated and coherent research and innovation programmes, to provide instruments to support industrial investment and to ensure that the results obtained have the maximum impact on society and the market.
in writing. − as we increasingly face challenges such as the world's growing population, the depletion of natural resources, increasing pressures on the environment, climate change, the bio-economy represents an important opportunity to respond to these challenges. i believe that the bioeconomy is a key element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in particular the 'innovation union' and 'resource-efficient europe' initiatives. the commission's proposed action plan will ensure the transition to a smart, sustainable and inclusive bioeconomy and enable europe to develop an innovative, low-emission economy that reconciles the objectives of sustainable agriculture and fisheries, food security and the sustainable use of biological resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring the protection of the environment and biodiversity. support for this sector is an investment in the future and it is therefore essential that the european union devotes a significant part of its investments to promoting research and development in the bioeconomy and to introducing a genuine european strategy. for the sustained promotion of the bioeconomy, i believe it is important to raise awareness and inform consumers about the content and benefits of the bioeconomy and the best consumption options within a sustainable and healthy lifestyle.
in writing. − with the world population approaching 9 billion people by 2050 and natural resources running out, european citizens need renewable biological resources for safe and healthy food and feed. the eu bio-economy already has a turnover of around eur 2 000 billion and provides jobs for over 22 million people, representing 9% of the total employed workforce in the eu. it includes sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries, food and paper and pulp production, as well as part of the chemical, biotechnology and energy industries. a coherent, cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary approach to the issue must be maintained at european level. the main objective should be to have a more innovative, low-emission economy that reconciles the demands of sustainable agriculture and fisheries, food security and the sustainable use of biological resources for industrial purposes, while ensuring the protection of the environment and biodiversity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr bartolozzi's report, which deals in a timely manner with the subject of sustainable growth linked to innovation and of european character. the sustainable economy is a growing sector which, if carefully developed, can act as a driver for national economies and boost productive investment. to make this possible, concrete support should be provided for the bioeconomy, which requires the further development of new skills, knowledge and disciplines to cope with societal changes. the competitiveness of the sector must also be promoted in order to increase its capacity to create jobs and meet the needs of european industry.
in writing. − i voted for this proposal as it advances sustainability whilst also promoting development and economic growth. by 2050, we expect a 70 % increase in food consumption, alongside a greater stress on water supplies and on renewable and non-renewable resources. the eu must rise to these challenges and champion an approach, such as this, that will deal with further research and innovation, increase cooperation between policy departments and strengthen eu competitiveness. research and innovation should take priority as we move forward. eu approval procedures for new bioeconomy products must be speeded up and standardised in order to hasten their access to market, whilst at the same time, the harvest of our biomass resources should be cascading. these efforts will both maintain our competitiveness and sustainability. when the bioeconomy develops, i insist upon a fair and even distribution of growth throughout the eu and so support the encouragement of exchange of information, including through the establishment of a bioeconomy panel and a bioeconomy observatory.
mr president, hungary’s troubling record on rights is putting europe to the test. this is the first sentence of the latest analysis of human rights watch and they are right. the debate today and the vote tomorrow is a test of how determined parliament is to defend eu fundamental values and principles. on several occasions we have had discussions about what has been going on in hungary. we started with media law, that incredible legislation and practice which comprised everything that was bad or controversial in different european countries without any check and balance. we continued with the changes to the judiciary and the constitutional court, aimed at limiting judges’ powers and making them less independent. we have stressed over and over again that the hungarian legislation and practice was against the letter and spirit of article 2 of the treaty. unfortunately, on all these issues and debates, the commission was rather weak, if not absent, as if the treaty and its article 2 were just recommendations. at the same time, many other european institutions have expressed harsh criticism – the osce, the council of europe’s secretary-general, the venice commission, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and, of course, the european parliament, as well as an impressive number of international and hungarian ngos and media associations. we cannot all be wrong or all be accused of being anti-hungarian, which means that now is the time for robust action. we have said again and again that what happens in a member state is an internal business of the european union. therefore i hope that the message we are sending through this report will be seriously considered by the eu institutions and the hungarian government. i truly hope that mr orbán will not answer in an arrogant style, questioning this house and its treaty right to express concern and ask for action on the undemocratic behaviour of a government.
i too would like to express my condolences and solidarity with the victims of the recent floods that have occurred in various parts of europe, including my own country, romania. sadly, we are seeing an increase in the frequency and severity of these events. it is therefore essential that member states improve their capacity to prevent natural disasters and be able to call on the mobilisation of european response mechanisms characterised by their promptness and effectiveness. the member states affected by the floods should therefore receive urgent financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund. i also believe that we need to review the way it works, both to introduce clearer criteria for obtaining funding and to allow the sums needed for the reconstruction of damaged areas to be accessed as quickly as possible once a request for support has been made.
the ftt could become a deterrent to risky activities and speculation, while at the same time representing a fair means for the financial sector to contribute to the economic recovery process. the tax will bring significant revenues to budgets, estimated at €57 billion per year if introduced in 27 member states, and €31 billion per year if 11 member states cooperate, at a time when stimulating economic growth and, in particular, job creation, is so necessary. i welcome the initiative of the states that have decided to work together to implement the tax, but i regret that the rest of the eu members have not joined in this effort for the time being. in addition, i am not in favour of the principle of exempting certain financial instruments from the application of the financial transaction tax, since its selective application would create shortcomings and undermine its effectiveness.
in writing. the introduction of a financial transaction tax is a good initiative, provided it is practiced globally. if this tax is imposed in only 11 eu member states, we will face the risk of capital movements to other jurisdictions where this tax does not exist. in addition, the range of financial transactions to which this tax will apply is still limited. i believe that the european union must continue its efforts to convince other countries where important financial transactions take place of the need to introduce a tax on these transactions.
the financial crisis also exposed the excesses in setting the income of investment fund managers at the expense of investor protection. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal in this area and the work done by the rapporteur, mr giegold, and other colleagues, who have reached a consensus on the proposals made. i will support the report, which is intended to put more order into the supervision/management of investment funds and strengthen investor protection. i particularly advocate that the income of the managers of these investment funds be in relation to the actual performance of the investment funds. it's important that we have complete transparency about the income of the managers who manage these investment funds.
the economic crisis caused by the risky activities of banks has led to the loss of jobs and, by implication, to the deterioration of the living standards of european citizens. as a result of the financial turmoil in cyprus, the question of using deposits of up to eur 100 000 - mostly savings of pensioners and small entrepreneurs - to bail out the main cypriot banks has been raised. in this context, it is not surprising that consumer confidence in the banking sector in the european union is currently at an all-time low. i therefore welcome the report by my colleague arlene mccarthy, which makes concrete proposals for more effective regulation of the european banking system. i support the legal separation of certain risky financial activities from deposit banks within a banking group because i believe this is an essential provision to ensure better protection of depositors' money. as long as there are loopholes in the regulation of banks in the european union, the risk of new crises will not be overcome. i therefore welcome the commissioner's initiative and look forward to the commission's proposal.
i would like to thank mrs mccarthy for this report. unfortunately, it doesn't take long for us to get some bad news from the banking system. recently published conversations between bankers from different banks in ireland show how much the banking culture can degrade in certain banks. that is why the reform of the banking system must be carried out to the end. i will support this report and i am sure that the european commission will come forward with proposals in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr vaughan, for his report. as is the case every year, this report will provide the commission with important input on its future work in fighting against fraud to the eu financial interests. the commission will of course reply in writing to all the concrete proposals in due course. however, i would like to say a few words about some of them now. firstly, i would like to provide you with a short update on the main initiatives that the commission has taken in order to improve the policy framework in the anti-fraud field. we have tabled a number of important proposals, and on some of them we have already been able to reach an agreement. there is, of course, the olaf reform on which we have just debated at length. in this context, let me stress that this report is not the right place to make judgments on the way individual investigations have been handled by olaf. furthermore, we proposed, in 2012, a directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law. we are eagerly awaiting the parliament’s input on this proposal, known as the pif directive. we have also launched a number of successful initiatives related specifically to the revenue side. thus, the vat directive and the customs code implementing provisions were amended with stricter and clearer conditions as regards procedure code 42, which allows importers to suspend the payment of vat at import. we have launched a broad action plan to fight tax fraud and tax evasion, which has received strong support both at eu and international levels; in particular, we managed finally to achieve an agreement on the vat quick reaction mechanism, and, just last month, we adopted a comprehensive eu strategy against cigarette smuggling. our proposal for a new hercule iii programme is a continuation of our efforts to help member states improve their work in fighting fraud. hercule iii is the only programme specifically aimed at protecting the eu’s financial interests by organising training and providing technical assistance. in parallel, we have already implemented, to a large extent, the commission’s internal anti-fraud strategy adopted in 2011. moving away from the policy area, the quality of reporting by the member states remains a perennial problem. it is not exclusively due to a divergent application of the reporting regulations by the member states; it is also caused by very different legal, organisational and even cultural approaches that member states have in relation to the fight against fraud affecting the eu’s financial interests. in recent years olaf has deployed great efforts to provide member states with technical solutions, training, guidelines and instructions to improve uniformity in the reporting of information concerning irregularities and fraud. agreeing on a more uniform definition of fraud in the context of the proposed pif directive would bring additional improvements in this area. to conclude my comments on the first report, and without prejudice to my comments regarding the points on olaf individual investigations, your annual report provides a solid basis to further improve the protection of the eu’s financial interest and fight against fraud. the commission will pursue its efforts proactively to address those issues which put at risk the proper use of the european taxpayer’s money. let me turn now to the report on the commission’s integrated internal control framework. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms andrea češková, for the constructive approach used in the report and the comprehensive analysis of the current situation. the report correctly indicates that the commission is still striving for a positive das, but there are conditions to fulfil before getting there. firstly, the commission services will continue implementing the audit and discharge recommendations issued every year in order to improve the management, control and protection of the eu budget. secondly, for all programmes under shared management, the member states must ensure that their management and control systems are functioning as required. they must also conduct effective controls at the level of final recipients of eu funds and report in a way that allows the commission to identify existing problems and to take any necessary action. thirdly, the post-2013 legislation must reflect the issues identified in the simplification agenda for the new multiannual financial framework and the simplification scoreboards adopted by the commission. finally, the commission’s action to protect the eu budget through its multiannual corrective mechanisms needs to be taken into consideration when assessing the effectiveness of its management and control systems. it should be put in perspective with the error rate estimated by the court of auditors. after the summer, the commission will take the next step by issuing a new report on the protection of the eu budget. with this report, the commission will give more inside views and explanations on the performance of its multiannual preventive and corrective systems. moreover, the commission welcomes the suggestion that an interinstitutional working group be set up to consider necessary measures aimed at establishing a performance-based budget and it will prepare an action plan in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as the ppe shadow rapporteur on the 2011 report on the protection of the union’s financial interests, i would like to recall some facts. the financial impact of fraud reported in 2011 decreased by 37% compared to 2010. however, the amount of fraud is still very high – eur 400 million, of which eur 77 million was fraud in agriculture and more than eur 200 million fraud in cohesion policy, with other figures adding up to eur 400 million. i would now like to say a few words on the fight against cigarette smuggling and illicit trade in tobacco products. between 2005 and 2010 illicit trade in cigarettes deprived the european union and the member states of more than eur 10 billion. this eur 10 billion lost in cigarette smuggling is used to support and enlarge organised crime networks. this is why i welcome the eu strategy against cigarette smuggling and the illicit tobacco trade published in june. i believe it comes quite late but it is good that we have it. vulnerable member states should be given stronger support to protect borders against cigarette smuggling. one way to do it is with hercule iii, a programme designed to fund detection of smuggling at the borders, for instance through buying and installing truck-scanning equipment. it should be very clear to all member states that, once tobacco is smuggled into the eu through a weaker border, we are all affected, including the member states who do not have external borders.
i am very pleased with the results of mr pargneaux's report. in crisis situations we need central coordination and, above all, we need improved communication and cooperation between member states. the prevention of critical situations such as avian influenza or e. coli is based on transparency between member states, their immediate capacity to react, individually or as a group, and cooperation between medical and veterinary units on a pre-crisis basis. when we talk about serious cross-border health threats, we must not forget poverty and the correlations between the health of the population and the social and financial problems it faces. poverty may not affect all of us today, but that does not mean that we can remain homeless in the future. right now, 19,000 children die every day before they're five years old. poverty is one of the primary factors in malnutrition and lack of access to health services and adequate treatment. our immune systems are essential to cope with crises and epidemics, but to do so, we must prioritize the proper implementation of nutrition plans and proper care for infants, children, and their mothers. access to appropriate medicines for those suffering from communicable and non-communicable diseases must be increased to minimise the number of people affected by the epidemic. and finally, let me congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done on this exceptional report.
in 21st century europe, the widespread mobility of people, goods, services and, not least, food, brings with it a great deal of vulnerability: viruses that were once local can now spread easily from region to region or country to country. i am pleased that the current proposal will have a more coherent framework, building on the existing one, with the establishment of better cooperation at national and sectoral level. current eu legislation only covers threats related to communicable diseases. strengthening the existing system by extending it to other risks will allow for more effective and better stimulation and, of course, respect for patients' rights, as well as an additional one in terms of budget effectiveness. in this context, it is useful to set up an ad hoc network which will provide information on situations from region to region.
in writing. − europe must show solidarity with citizens in difficulty because of the crisis or other problems caused by austerity measures and welcomes the decision to increase the additional amount of up to eur 1 billion for the programme to assist the poorest people in the union by distributing food products to member states wishing to use this increase for the programme and for the youth employment initiative.
in writing. − i voted for the recommendation and, by implication, in favour of the amendments, because they represent a step forward in the process of continuing alignment with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i believe that the removal of technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties, and in particular the assurance that these vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection, are important objectives which require particular attention from the eu. the union's cooperation and participation in the work of the un economic commission for europe will also help in the long term to develop and strengthen international harmonisation of vehicle provisions.
in writing. − i fully support the resolution to amend council decision 97/836/ec in order to bring it in line with the new decision-making process introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). this action will both simplify and speed up the entire process, including the response time to regulatory operators. the adoption of the tfeu subjects the remit of council decision 97/836/ec to changes that have since been proven to be problematic. through this decision the eu acceded to the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) concerning uniform technical prescriptions for permitted wheeled vehicles and parts. it is not acceptable that the process by which the eu establishes its position in relation to new acts in the framework of unece is being delayed unnecessarily. specifically, article 218(6)(a) and (8) have proved to be obstacles to the incorporation of unece directives. eu legislation in this area is heavily reliant on unece regulations in order to ensure a high level of safety as well as the removal of barriers to trade in motor vehicles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because i too support the objective of this proposal and, by implication, the need to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission's vote on the unece regulations. the eu vehicle type-approval system is now increasingly based on the un commission's regulations, so reducing the time needed for the adoption of these acts is particularly important. furthermore, it is necessary to continue the amendments so that they reflect the changes introduced by the tfeu, both in terms of the decision-making procedure and, in particular, in terms of the establishment of the eu position in these regulations.
in writing. − i support this resolution as continuity and expediency must be restored, so that the revised 1958 agreement can effectively ensure that the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is able to remove inconsistencies in technical requirements when the contracting parties engage in trade in motor vehicles. this resolution aims to modify and bring up to date the agreement to establish global technical regulations regarding which wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts can be fitted on wheeled vehicles, as introduced by council decision 2000/125/ec of 31 january 2000. the incompatibility lies with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which has since altered the procedure by which the union establishes its position in regard to unece and other international organisations. the original council decision must be brought into line with the new decision-making procedure, so as to be able to continue effectively with the parallel agreement in the framework of the unece.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the support provided by the european union to workers affected by the consequences of the change in world trade and the worsening economic situation is essential. i think it is necessary that this fund can be mobilised as soon as possible. unfortunately, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between the different actors involved and the european commission needs to accelerate efforts to simplify and harmonise the submission of applications. on numerous occasions we have drawn the attention of the romanian government to the possibility of accessing these funds in the event of redundancies at some factories in romania. i regret that the number of applications for these funds is low and, paradoxically, the countries that suffer most from the crisis are also the ones that make the least use of the funds.
in writing. − in view of the high unemployment rate in the european union, the european globalisation adjustment fund is an essential instrument to protect european workers in disadvantaged regions and sectors. there have been many crises and emergencies that have required specific intervention, both locally by the member states and at european level. i support the financing of the measures proposed by the commission, which include activities such as: monitoring, information, building a knowledge base by creating an electronic form and standardised procedures for egf applications, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation of egf interventions. the commission will also be able to use the information provided by the member states to support the implementation of the solidarity fund. member states have a responsibility to use these tools and to take advantage of the opportunity to exchange good practices in order to ensure transparency and efficiency in the management of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. − the european union has established, through the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade, aggravated by the economic, financial and social crisis. i believe that member states should be encouraged to take advantage of the exchange of good practice and to learn especially from member states that have already set up national egf information networks involving social partners and local actors, in order to have a good support structure when a situation falling within the scope of the egf would occur.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the mobilisation of eur 750 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), covering technical assistance for the commission. i particularly support the allocation of eur 80 000 for the creation of a knowledge base, which increases information sharing through networks and expert groups. a detailed database of facts and figures from all the previous cases allows new applicants to better understand the functioning and implementation of the egf. processing of new applications is therefore simplified and speeded up. additionally, enhancing the sharing of know-how and the liaison between all those involved in the egf process reduces the misuse of the funds received.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) plays a key role in the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade. since its creation in 2007, some €464 million has been requested to support 97 000 workers. i welcome the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf to provide eur 750 000 for technical assistance. the measures proposed by the european executive regarding the use and evaluation of the egf in the member states will increase the efficiency, transparency and visibility of this instrument. the consolidation of the egf is all the more important as it will allow the application procedure to be simplified and the examination of applications to be accelerated. it will also contribute to the objective of reducing the administrative burden for member states. equally important is the strengthening of the promotion and information dimension through a website that will allow the exchange of knowledge and information on the egf. at the same time, the establishment of national egf information networks will stimulate innovation and economic growth, improving the quality of everyday life of european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation and at the same time i support the proposal and the intention to strengthen the procedural rights of persons concerned by olaf investigations, but also to improve cooperation with the different partners. however, recent information that has come to light in connection with olaf's administrative investigations needs to be further developed. i welcome the decision of the supervisory committee to raise an alarm about certain illicit practices. the committee's role in monitoring olaf's activities should also be strengthened. this allows us to ensure that investigations are carried out independently and in accordance with established rules and procedures. the union cannot tolerate cases of violation of fundamental rights in the context of administrative investigations. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget, in particular on the budget for the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the differences between the provisions on the obligations and liability of depositaries must be eliminated. the companies managing the collective investment undertakings need to have control and risk and remuneration management policies. therefore, harmonisation of supervisory practices by the european securities and markets authority and the european banking authority is vital and sanctions for breach of these rules should not be overlooked. in romania, the investment management company is responsible for the management of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. a legislative framework is also in place for actions that can be classified as infringements, as well as appropriate sanctions.
in writing. − the principles governing remuneration policies must recognise that ucits management companies have the capacity to apply those policies in different ways, depending on their size and the size of the ucits they manage, their internal organisation and the nature, scale and complexity of their activities. however, ucits management companies should ensure the simultaneous application of those principles in all cases. i consider that any financial instrument held in custody for a ucits must be distinguished from the depositary's own assets and must be identified at all times as belonging to that ucits; such a requirement must confer an additional level of protection to investors in the event of the depositary's breach of its contractual obligations.
in writing. − i voted for this report. undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) are investment funds that manage a market of almost eur 6 trillion in assets. scandals such as the lehman brothers’ bankruptcy or the bernard madoff fraud shook the integrity of this huge market. therefore it is necessary to ensure investor safety once more. this report regulates in particular transparency regarding the remuneration of investment fund managers and the proportion of their bonus payments, which should be no more than two times the fixed salary. for example, richard fuld, the former ceo of lehman brothers, was paid in 2007, so only one year before the collapse in 2008, a total of usd 22 million, which included a base salary of only usd 750 000, a cash bonus of more than usd 4 million and stock grants of more than usd 16 million. establishing the balance between an investment fund manager’s fixed salary and his/her bonus payment and ensuring that remuneration is disclosed in an accurate manner to all stakeholders involved are proofs of reliability, which aim at restoring the confidence of investors on the market.
in writing. − the european union is leading the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from human activities, which threaten to cause dangerous global climate change. the community emissions trading scheme (eu ets) developed by the european union is the cornerstone of its strategy to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions cost-effectively. this system is based on the recognition that carbon pricing is the most cost-effective way to significantly reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, and that such reductions are necessary to prevent dangerous levels of climate change.
in writing. − one of the european union's most important objectives is to reduce industrial emissions. due to the large quantities of emission allowances, the carbon price is falling very noticeably from around 30 euro/tonne of co2 to around 7 euro/tonne of co2, and investments in technologies need to be supported. this decision to adapt the eu ets auction calendar only once, in the third phase of the eu ets trading, maintains a certain balance. i therefore believe that we need to take steps to strike a balance between carbon emissions and scientific innovation and i agree with the structural changes, considering that the volume of greenhouse gas emissions quotas requires special conditions.
in writing. − recent crossborder health threats, such as the h1n1 influenza pandemic (2009), the volcanic ash cloud (2010) or e. coli (2011), have led to the european union strengthening its response capacity by taking concrete measures to provide means, networks and structures complementary to those already in place to prevent and combat them. the proposal voted today extends the risk assessment and coordination measures applicable to communicable diseases to all threats to health from biological, chemical or environmental sources; strengthens the role of the health security committee to improve coordination of crisis response measures; and provides for each member state to develop, strengthen and update in a coordinated manner national health crisis preparedness and response plans, exchanging good practices with other member states. i believe that the proper functioning of the 'rapid alert and response system' and the system for recognising a health emergency' requires close cooperation between the member states and the eu institutions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, by harmonising and strengthening the union's capacities and structures, it will provide an effective response to major crossborder health threats. events such as swine flu, avian flu and the effects of the volcanic cloud in iceland have shown that member states have faced difficulties in trying to act unilaterally. the union therefore needs a coherent response framework and effective joint action. member states' efforts need to be multiplied, especially in view of the current crisis period. the economic effort of each member state will thus be reduced by coordinating actions and responding to a possible cross-border crisis. taking the example of the volcanic ash cloud in iceland, the paralysis of air traffic at european level caused significant losses to passengers and airlines. in romania, losses exceeded eur 7 million.
in writing. − building on the rapid alert and response system for communicable diseases established in 1998, the european commission's proposal sets out measures to strengthen the eu's response capacity to prevent serious crossborder threats to health by providing complementary means, networks and structures to combat these threats. by this decision, the commission proposes to 'extend the scope of the rapid alert and response system on serious cross-border threats to health'. the commission thus intends to address the shortcomings identified in recent years in the notification, surveillance, assessment and management of health risks. recent events have demonstrated that the european union has not responded adequately when faced with health crises resulting from medicines being used for purposes other than their original purpose or from the placing on the market of defective medical devices. an effective warning system would certainly have helped to prevent such tragedies.
in writing. − recent serious crossborder events such as the h1n1 pandemic in 2009, the volcanic ash cloud and the toxic red mud in 2010, the e. coli bacteria in 2011, have demonstrated the need for measures to strengthen the eu's response capacity and provide the means, networks and structures to effectively protect citizens across europe against a wide range of crossborder health threats. in this context, i welcome the commission's proposal for a decision extending the scope of the alert and response system, improving coordination of crisis response measures and ensuring greater efficiency in responding to serious cross-border threats to health. while member states have the responsibility to manage public health crises at national level, no country can cope with a cross-border public health crisis on its own. i therefore believe that the european union should complement and support national policies and encourage cooperation between member states, without, however, replacing their competence in this area. cooperation with third countries and international organisations, in particular the world health organisation, should also be given high importance in relation to the emergence or re-emergence of communicable diseases.
in writing. − i believe that this proposal for a decision on crossborder threats, particularly in terms of coordinating and ensuring the effectiveness of the response to serious health threats, certainly helps to prevent dramatic situations.
in writing. − the health threats that have affected the european union in recent years, such as h1n1 influenza or e. coli, have shown that the european union is not prepared to deal in a concerted way with these dangers, which are by their nature transnational. i therefore voted in favour of this report as it will lead to a strengthening of the european union's capacity to react and prevent such health threats, both in terms of risk assessment, improving the efficiency of existing structures and cooperation at european and international level, in particular with the world health organisation. the new framework defined by this decision will allow the eu to be better prepared to prevent and combat such health threats, which can have very serious effects on european citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i believe that by introducing common procedures for the procurement of pandemic medicines and vaccines, member states will be able to respond more quickly and effectively to unforeseen events and pandemic threats to the health of union citizens. in addition, they support the establishment of the rapid alert and response system, consisting of the european commission, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and the competent and responsible national authorities. the rapid alert and response system will notify cases of serious cross-border threats at european level, and will act independently and in the interest of the union as a whole in establishing the necessary measures to protect public health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and draw attention to the fact that serious crossborder threats to health should not be seen solely as diseases affecting human beings. diseases affecting domestic animals, and even food plants, are equally important cross-border health threats, requiring equally coordinated and well-organised interventions and prevention actions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i hope that the implementation of the financial transaction tax in some of the member states will not affect those states which do not participate in this form of enhanced cooperation. the application of the financial transaction tax could lead to lower liquidity in the financial sector. private pension funds could also be affected. moreover, budgetary gains, at least in the case of romania, would be limited. i agree that banks bear a great responsibility for the outbreak and worsening of the economic crisis. but we must not pass on to consumers an additional cost.
in writing. − the 2008 global financial crisis brought to the fore the weaknesses of a long period of financial services deregulation. the crisis spread rapidly to the real economy, with serious consequences for growth, employment and public finances. taxpayers were invited to bail out failing financial institutions to protect the stability of the system. the commission's proposal for a ftt meets almost all the criteria for a genuine own resource, namely: sufficiency, stability, visibility and simplicity, low operating costs, efficient allocation of resources, vertical and horizontal fairness and fair contributions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i think that the decision taken by the 11 member states to work together to implement the financial transaction tax is commendable. the tax could make a significant contribution to budgets and at the same time to the effort to exit the current recession and could become a disincentive to risky activities and speculation. i regret that the rest of the european union has not joined this initiative for the time being.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal to set up an expert working group, including representatives of the participating member states, the european commission, esma and the ecb, to properly monitor the way the financial transaction tax is applied in the eu countries, as it will not be applied uniformly in all 27 member states but only in 11. a core collection mechanism is essential, as the existence of weaknesses in a member state would undermine the success of the tax and could even lead to arbitration cases in the tff area.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the commission estimates that the financial transaction tax will bring between €30 and €35 billion to the eu budget, or about 1% of the union's gdp. the daily financial transactions of citizens and businesses will not be affected, with the tax only applying to financial institutions, which account for more than 85% of total transactions. the application of this tax by the 11 member states will lead to more transparency in the exchange of financial information between the participating countries and to a reduction in tax evasion. the financial transaction tax will also help to reduce tax differences due to the different tax systems in each country and thus reduce speculation on financial markets.
in writing. − at a time when the credibility of the euro area is being called into question, latvia is a further example of the attractiveness of the euro. i would like to congratulate the commission on this success, which should be an example for the non-euro area countries. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the budgetary and financial situation of latvia is in line with the maastricht criteria. i am convinced that the changeover to the euro will stimulate investment, as has happened in estonia, where it has doubled. in the same vein, i am confident that my country will follow latvia's example when it is ready.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i believe that latvia is ready to become a member of the euro area as of 1 january 2014. latvia fulfils all the maastricht criteria for price stability, sound public finances, controlled exchange rate fluctuation and also shows a sustainable degree of real convergence with the euro area. therefore, as the baltic state fully complies with the criteria set out in european legislation, it is entitled to become a full member of the euro area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because 75 people die on europe's roads every day and romania is among the european countries with a high rate of deaths on public roads. a worrying statistic is that in 2012, in my country, there were 2,000 deaths and 9,000 serious injuries from road accidents. i would like to inform you that june 26th has become a day of national mourning in romania after the tragedy in montenegro eight days ago. i would like to appeal to all road transport operators, but also to drivers: they must become aware of the responsibility for human lives that they bear. preventive driving and obeying traffic laws are just some of the ways that tragically wasted lives can be saved.
in writing. − it is known that in 2011 more than 30 000 people were killed and almost 1 500 000 people were reported injured (250 000 of them seriously) in road accidents in the eu. the main causes of road accidents and serious injuries have been found to be mechanical failures, poor road maintenance, and driver behavior, including the ability to handle speed. in this context, we need better legislation and enforcement measures to reduce road accidents, increase road safety and reduce serious injuries. member states should continue their efforts to combat drunk driving and drug-related driving and to exchange best practices for the assessment and rehabilitation of road traffic offenders. efficient and innovative methods of enforcing road traffic rules for pedestrians and cyclists must also be found and information campaigns on behaviour to ensure road safety and information campaigns to promote cycling must be promoted, given that cycling safety in urban areas is closely linked to the prevalence of cycling as a means of transport.
in writing. − i welcome and support the proposal to launch training and information campaigns on improving the safety of walking and cycling, especially in urban areas, given that pedestrians and cyclists account for 50% of the total number of fatal road accidents in urban areas and a high percentage of serious injuries, as well as the further development of technical standards and policies for the protection of the most vulnerable road users - the elderly, young children, disabled people and cyclists.
i didn't vote for the report. he draws extreme conclusions from unstable facts. his recommendations are inaccurate and unworkable. still, the text has improved from the original. you don't have to send the report to the state department anymore, it's already been seen through prism. but if we turn the word serious, we might even be able to praise it for saying: you can't have a double standard. i look forward to the ep's report today on the situation of minorities in slovakia, greece, france and romania, for example. finally, a document which specifically deals with respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities, so that there is no obstacle to reporting on the situation of indigenous national minorities in the individual member states. if we're serious about rejecting double standards, then these are the steps we need to take. if not, the whole european parliament could lose its credit.
in writing. - i did not support this report because the proposals it put forward go far beyond the powers of the european parliament. i also believe that the report has political connotations. at the same time, some of the recommendations made are not in line with the competences of the european institutions. the application of double standards in relation to some countries, such as hungary, can have negative effects. last but not least, i believe that if we are to have a union in which fundamental freedoms and the rule of law really prevail, there must be uniform mechanisms for all the member states. only in this way can we prevent miscarriages and ensure that when they do occur, corrective measures are applied in a neutral and non-partisan way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution, including most of the amendments tabled. many of the points mentioned in the resolution are at least questionable, but they fully support the references to the need to defend the balance and separation of powers in the state, to the independence of the judiciary, to the rules that are required in the event of an electoral reform. the state i represent, romania, is facing a major examination, namely a draft revision of the constitution that risks destroying the separation of powers in the state and the independence of the judiciary, so i can only vote in defense of these democratic values.
in writing. − the recent floods that have affected many countries in the european union are further proof of the powerlessness of people in the face of the weather. at such times, we must realize that it is essential to reorient current agricultural and forestry practices so that they become truly sustainable, so that they do not contribute to the acceleration of soil degradation. in these circumstances, i encourage the council and the commission to act swiftly and to respond to requests for financial support through the european union solidarity fund (eusf) as soon as the member states have completed the necessary formalities. this support is essential to remedy the economic and environmental losses suffered by communities and people. i believe that the eusf regulation should be simplified by giving the commission the power to transfer funds as soon as an affected country makes a request, thus facilitating the quickest possible access of member states to these financial resources which are so useful in crisis situations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because the floods in central europe are a strong warning signal about the european union's ability to respond to such tragedies. i am concerned that the union solidarity fund cannot cover the needs generated by the disaster. what would have happened if the affected states had not been able to mobilize funds for disaster relief and emergency response? we must not forget, however, that we are in a time of crisis and national budgets do not provide much funding for such situations. the situation in romania was also serious, and the danube river caused considerable damage in certain areas. i would point out that the situation of the solidarity fund is not unique, since several union programmes have been hit by a lack of funds, and another concrete example is erasmus.
in writing. − the floods we have witnessed in recent months in various member states such as austria, the czech republic, germany, hungary, poland and slovakia, which took the form of a major natural disaster and caused significant damage to these countries and their citizens, once again underline the major importance of both prevention programmes and the effectiveness of the solidarity fund. although the scale of these floods was higher compared to previous years, progress was made in flood management, which shows that member states have managed to improve the quality and efficiency of their emergency services, which have resulted in saving lives, protecting communities and minimising damage. solidarity and cooperation are crucial in times like these. the allocation of additional funds to this end is a priority, especially in the context of such natural disasters which occur with increasing frequency and increasingly severe consequences. more ambitious policies are therefore needed to prevent and combat the adverse effects of flooding, with particular attention to integrating protection systems so that they function optimally, both within each member state and across borders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that the states affected by the recent floods should be able to benefit from rapid financial aid from the european union. the mechanism for the operation of the european union solidarity fund also needs to be reviewed in order to introduce clearer criteria for obtaining funding and to speed up the process of providing this money, which is so necessary for the rehabilitation of damaged areas.
in writing. − in the context of climate change, which has caused devastating natural phenomena worldwide, effective flood prevention is essential in all eu member states and must be addressed through precise risk management strategies, both interregional and cross-border, where there is great potential for coordination and for the implementation of a common emergency response. floods are not boundary-free, especially as they occur along rivers or streams such as the danube, which cross several countries, and as such, cooperation of local and regional authorities along borders, accompanied by planning and improvement of flood control capacity and drainage systems, is essential.
in writing. − some member states in the eu face very serious challenges with the recent floods. countries are obliged to provide assistance to the areas affected. european solidarity is exemplified by mutual assistance in adverse situations. in addition, the european union civil protection mechanism helped member states to cooperate and minimise the effects of the emergency. i believe that the european solidarity fund is an efficient instrument in facing natural disasters. it is an instrument providing a direct response by the european union, in support of its citizens. i voted in favour of the joint resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and draw attention to the extremely serious consequences that the recent floods will have on agricultural crops in the affected countries. the flooding has compromised significant crop areas for the entire agricultural season. in many regions, these floods have affected the most fertile agricultural and wine-growing land in the respective countries. in this context, i would point out that i asked the commission, by way of a question, whether it envisaged measures to support farmers affected by the floods and whether it estimated the potential impact of the effects of these floods on the eu crop and food prices.
the evolution of the economic and financial crisis has unfortunately led to imbalances in the banking system and has had direct and indirect effects on economic developments in the european union. the rapid increase in the complexity of banks' activities before the crisis, and in particular those related to investment, led to a limitation of internal and external control over the organisations. in short, the real value of equity decreased, losses began to emerge and the banks' ability to absorb proved inefficient. all these problems could have been avoided if there had been a system of surveillance at national and european level. that is why, given the key role banks play in financing individuals and businesses, i believe that we urgently need new regulations to strengthen the capacity of the european banking sector to provide quality financial services and support economic development.
in writing. − as the european union's states and societies continue to face the effects of the economic crisis, banking sector reform is becoming an essential tool to prevent future such dynamics. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that the bailout of the banking sector cost european taxpayers no less than eur 1.6 trillion (equivalent to 12.8% of the eu's gross domestic product), costs which in several member states have exacerbated the problem of budget deficits and public expenditure systems. the construction of a european institutional framework is a key task in this context. it must, however, take account of both the imperative of maintaining the single market for goods and services and the specificity and particularity of the banking sectors in the member states. i support the commission's intention to draw up a directive for structural reform of the banking system many of the institutional problems that have been at the root of the crisis require effective and decisive solutions. it is also important to regulate the shadow banking sector in the same spirit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because five years after the start of the crisis, the european union is still in recession, with consumer confidence in the european banking sector at a worryingly low level. moreover, state-financed bank bailouts have caused a massive increase in public debt in the member states. one of the final goals of structural reform should be to ensure that only essential services such as payment systems and overdraft facilities are provided by the state. these are essential for the proper functioning of the real economy. moreover, the costs of bankruptcy should be borne first by the shareholders, creditors and only then by the state. european taxpayers should not pay for the greed of banking systems. the reform must respect the integrity of the single market and transparency with regard to non-euro area member states.
in writing. − as the banking sector plays a critical role in the real economy, concern for its improvement has spread across the spectrum of society, from citizens to governments, bankers, the business community, experts, global financial management organisations, civil society, the media, etc. better regulation is important to reduce the chances of another major financial crisis, a key factor in restoring confidence in the financial sector. the fact that a country has been exposed to a financial crisis does not reduce the likelihood of being hit by another crisis. it is quite obvious that simply additional legislation is not enough. reducing risk will inevitably require a cultural change in the financial system.
in writing. − the concern of european citizens and their declining confidence in the banking system are understandable in the context of the new european measures to address the financial and banking crisis. it is clear that we need a more ambitious reform to ensure a stable, efficient banking system that can function satisfactorily in a competitive market economy. banks need to review their strategies to serve the interests of customers and consumers and eliminate activities that present excessive risks and have the sole objective of making a profit. in the event of future bank failures, retail customers need to be protected so that they no longer have to bear the burden of the recovery of banking systems. in order to support real economic development, banks must be held accountable when they take excessive risks and therefore retail banking activities such as deposits, bank accounts and loans must be separated from riskier activities such as trading in financial instruments and derivatives. discipline and transparency are essential in resolving this fundamental issue facing the european union at this time as efficiently and quickly as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on structural reform of the eu banking sector. among the most important changes it brings are the reduction of complexity and the limitation of interconnection between commercial and risk investment activities in the banking sector. a few months ago, i asked the commission a question for a written answer on the technical complexity of the financial market. i asked the commission whether a distinction should be made between commercial and investment banks to take account of the particularities of the different types of banking operations. the commission replied that it would 'take a decision on a possible legislative measure in this area in the second half of this year'. i therefore ask that the commission take account of the recommendations of this report when drafting its legislative proposal, in particular as regards the legal separation of financial activities. the union banking system needs to be less complex to serve the needs of the real economy.
we are not implementing measures to stimulate economic growth in the european union if we do not have an effective system of coordination at european level to protect the financial interests of the union by fighting fraud. according to european commission reports, one of the main sectors threatened by corruption is that of european funds. given the importance of these funds for the future economic development of the european union and for the citizens of the european union, i believe that it is necessary to improve national legislation on corruption in public procurement related to european funds, as well as to make monitoring by the european commission more efficient. these measures, combined with simplified public procurement procedures, can lead to greater absorption and better stimulation of economic growth through european funding.
in writing. − the economic viability of the european union depends crucially not only on safeguarding the efficiency of resource collection but also on the efficiency with which european funds are spent. the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests continues to be an important tool in this respect for both the european institutions and the member states. however, it is important to stress that, despite its importance, the report makes it difficult to assess the real extent of the problems at this level, as it contains only data reported by member states, which define fraud differently. it is important that national actors and the european institutions adopt a similar regulatory framework, which allows, as european legislation has called for on several occasions, the identification and penalisation of states that do not effectively combat fraud. it is also advisable in this context for the european union to provide additional funds to national law enforcement authorities. the efficiency of the public expenditure system is essential for the european union, both in the current highly restrictive economic context and to ensure the credibility and transparency of the institution among european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the recovery of member states hit by the economic and financial crisis is hampered by corruption, tax evasion and other economic crimes. fraud undermines the rule of law and leads to the misuse of european union funds, funds secured by taxpayers. the financial impact of fraud has fallen by 37% compared to 2010, showing that the european commission and member states are increasingly effective. however, the institutions, both european and national, need to adapt their investigative methods to the cross-border dimension of the problem. romania is aware of the problem of smuggling at its non-eu borders. in march of this year, a large-scale campaign called "anti-tobacco 2013" was organized, which ended with impressive arrests.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european commission needs to support improving the quality of financial management in order to obtain the assurance from the european court of auditors. the cooperation between these two institutions needs to be strengthened as delays in the implementation of measures could affect the confidence of european citizens in the institutions. moreover, the single audit system is inefficient; and national surveillance systems are unreliable, so the commission needs to define new indicators and targets in this area. the requirements of the court of auditors must be met to ensure that the money is spent properly. i welcome the introduction of sanctions if the money was not used properly. in the face of the crisis and austerity measures, the message we must give to the citizens is one of intolerance towards illicit behaviour.
in writing. − for sound financial management of public funds, member states must cooperate with the commission to restore european citizens' confidence in the union and its institutions, either by providing appropriate incentives, by imposing strict sanctions or by suspending the flow of funds. to this end, member states need to strengthen their surveillance and control systems and, in particular, to ensure the reliability of their indicators and statistics.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, this will be very short. the european parliament's debate - i am addressing mr jorgo and mr - is only intended to remind greece that it is the master at home, but by taking the right decisions. mr samaras answered a good question, but he made a bad decision, because he has cut off the freedom of information, which we are responsible for ensuring here. freedom of information is not information from a stack of private networks, it's information from private networks and information from public networks. greek television had to be reformed without cutting off the network, as many other countries have done.
the decision to temporarily suspend the activity of the public television in greece has certainly caused concern among greek citizens, but not only among greek citizens. in this part of europe, where my country is located, there is a particular sensitivity to public television and radio stations. in romania, as in greece, these public television stations have accumulated huge debts. and in romania, various governments, including the current government, are trying to bring the romanian public television on the line. i therefore hope that the greek government will take the necessary steps to restructure the public service broadcasting in greece rapidly and to restore it to full operation, while also meeting the requirements of economic efficiency. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to the question under the 'blue card' procedure i have no information about public television stations in italy or the uk, but i will tell you one thing: if the market economy were to actually work in romania and the creditors would initiate legal action against public television, public television would go into insolvency, but the creditors do not do this, precisely because it is public television and their hope is that the state, in one way or another, will solve these problems.
madam president, a couple of months ago, this parliament adopted with a very large majority the report i drafted on standard settings for media freedom across the european union. one very strong recommendation in that report speaks about the governments’ obligation to support public media, namely television, radio or news agencies, because citizens have the right to be correctly informed and, although we want a genuine pluralist media, it is beyond any doubt that public media play a very important role. therefore, governments have a duty to protect citizens’ rights to information. the decision of the greek authorities obviously went against this. but i want to draw your attention to the current situation in portugal, where for the past several years the government has constantly cut funds for public television, thus leaving it entirely in the hands of commercial advertisers and the taxpayers which, in such times of crisis, most likely will result in the death of the institution. i urge the commission to act now and protect public broadcasters before it is too late.
question no 7 by mr pimenta (h-0026/97) subject: the commission's proposal to the council for a regulation on the establishment of a european community network of satellite television stations
i welcome this debate, but i consider it a simple exercise in indignation and self-righteousness. the european union, the member states and the european commission have complained, condemned, but have been unable to take a decision. i don't think we're talking about an espionage case, but we're talking about our inability to enforce and guarantee democratic standards for our citizens, because we don't know whether mr. snowden is a traitor or a man of good faith who wants to protect human rights. we would know if the champions of european democracy, at least one of the member states, had granted political asylum, but that is not the case: it is granted by countries that we consider to be unreachable by some standards. i think we should not even be talking about the protection of personal data, but about a principle that should govern the industry, namely the honesty, integrity and morality of industrial products, which always take precedence over legal regulations, which we are unable to implement. we call on the parliaments of the member states to call the intelligence services to account, to the extent that they protect them, because they are paid for by the taxpayers' money, the money of european citizens.
mr president, naturally spying on one’s allies is not acceptable. however, unveiling such practices precisely at the crucial time of the initiation of talks on establishing a transatlantic free trade zone was done in an attempt to strike a strong blow, both to those talks and to the mutual trust between the two sides of the atlantic. it only benefits our competitors. however, the real problem is that after 9/11, and facilitated by the exponential advance of technology, the genie is out of the bottle. intelligence services have a completely free hand to satisfy their insatiable hunger for more and more data on practically everybody. how does that square with the full respect of people’s democratic freedoms? to those of us from the east this is even more disturbing. we fought to join the west precisely for the respect of those freedoms, not for their disrespect.
in writing. the recent revelations that the united states is spying on the institutions and countries of the european union in a massive way is perhaps the biggest shock in the history of eu-us relations. if this information proves to be true, i believe that the partnership with the united states must be fundamentally revised because it is unacceptable that the eu is officially considered a friend and a strategic partner and on the other hand an enemy target. and what's worse is that if we look at the recent failure of the nabucco project, we realize that the european union is extremely naive and is gradually losing its relevance. that is why i believe that a determined response is needed from both the european institutions and the member states to review the eu's relationship with external partners, including the us, on a transparent and reciprocal basis. the first step is to ask the united states for a concrete explanation of the serious allegations against him, and i hope that this will be done as soon as possible.
in writing. – the prism scandal is artificial and the eu attitude is hypocritical. the eu itself repeatedly invaded the private life of its citizens or delivered information about them to the us. what eu defends now is not the citizens’ freedom but its own freedom to act non-transparently towards its american ally. it is not spying that undermines friendship, but the lack of good faith, commitment, transparency and loyalty. perhaps friends should not spy on each other but they should not hide the truth from each other either. on the other hand, nobody has eternal friends. accurate information about friends consolidates trust, making friendship longer. us-eu common standards for balancing freedom and security and agreements for sharing classified information are necessary but the eu should abandon its practice of preconditions. there is an urgent need for a strategic transatlantic partnership and prism revelations must not hijack the negotiations. only those who are afraid of the eu and us imposing their standards at the global level are interested in postponing them. the eu and us cultural compatibilities and common geostrategic interests make the transatlantic partnership unique. any alternative partnerships of one of the two with third actors will lead to instable equilibriums, being themselves instable.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to say that i am glad that we have finally reached the moment of adopting this new directive and i would like to thank mrs hohlmeier for the very good cooperation we have had during the negotiations. cyberattacks have become a major threat in recent years, both economically and socially and even politically. if we look at the numbers, we can see that this cybercrime affects millions of people and businesses every year and produces an estimated annual damage of almost 300 billion euros, which is huge. it is essential that the european union is active in responding to these new threats, and this directive is a step forward. the new directive will harmonise not only the level of penalties but also the definition of criminal offences, given that there are important differences between member states in this area. i welcome, at the same time, the fact that legal persons managing information systems will be legally responsible for the proper functioning of their own systems. on the other hand, i must stress that although i have long insisted that the states themselves should be held accountable for cyber attacks, this has not been done, mainly because of the strong opposition of the council, but also of some colleagues. i think that would have been a very welcome proposal at this point, given the scandal of cyber espionage being practiced by the united states. i believe that these activities of the united states are unacceptable and illegal and could have been prosecuted in some form or another. in the fight against cyberattacks, we need trust and cooperation, both within the european union and internationally, because in the cyber environment there are no borders. it is therefore very important that member states work together more and that the european union pursues better cooperation at international level. at the same time, we need effective tools to combat cyberattacks and i am pleased in this respect that the mandate of enisa has been improved and that the european cybercrime centre has recently been set up. finally, i would like to say that this directive is only one element in the fight against cyberattacks and that much remains to be done, particularly in terms of prevention and the development of institutional and technological capacities, both in the member states and at the level of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have worked with my colleagues in the subcommittee on security and defence on the cyber security report and followed the interesting work done by my colleagues in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i have to congratulate them for their many efforts over the past two years to bring this problem onto the agenda, the work of enisa and the promotion of the new language on cyber defence. at the same time, this latest work on the information system must be understood as part of a greater debate. information systems are at the core of the issue when it comes to cyber threats and both public and private structures are becoming more and more threatened. the improvements made by the commission’s proposal are very important. by now there are hundreds of people in prison all around the eu for cybercrime but there are still people who consider cybercrime an easy adventure. more than this, we have to start thinking globally when it comes to cybercrime. this report talks of cross-border intra-eu measures, but we have to admit that we need a more developed legal framework.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i consider that we need a better or real implementation of the council common position (ccp) but only in a manner that is sustainable and good for both the industry and the people that the ccp is supposed to protect. some parts of this initiative and some proposals are realistic in our opinion. we cannot ban weapon production or the sale of weapons, but we need to be able to have guarantees for all member states that no problematic regime, non-state actor or paramilitary group is behind any weapons contract with their country. we should not kill off an important industry for europe and we should not adopt a radical approach. it is important to promote better cooperation on the common position and enable the european defence agency to fully promote its implementation at council level. the problem is to achieve a balance between arms control and preserving and promoting the development and innovation of the european defence industry. the solution for me is the real integration and consolidation of our industry. for now, the compromise that we have reached on the common position is a step forward and we should be realistic before we blindly ask for more.
the arms industry is strategic for the european union and is also a source of substantial revenue for many member states. the union as a whole is in fact the second largest arms exporter globally, after the united states. the strategic nature of the matter is no excuse for lack of transparency. member states shall take into account the common reporting tools for the number of export licences issued in the field as well as the final destination of the exported products. the main problem when we talk about arms exports is the final destination of arms. even if export licenses are issued to certain states, as is known, weapons can be sold to other areas, thus fuelling regional conflicts. we must recognize the risk that arms exported legally from european countries could end up in the hands of authoritarian regimes, regimes that violently repress protests. the same must be said for the risk of corruption, which is unfortunately also inherent in the arms trade. in these circumstances, i would like to welcome the conclusion of the arms trade treaty, which will certainly lead to increased control and improve transparency in this very sensitive area. i am also pleased that 74 countries have already signed the treaty, 26 of which are member states of the union; i hope that the other two countries will follow the example of the member states as soon as possible. the arms trade treaty demonstrates that there is substantial reflection on the problems we have listed here and that important efforts are being made to address them.
the current economic crisis has generated budgetary constraints for health systems in europe. financial pressures have led to the implementation of austerity policies, thus undermining universal access and quality of services, especially for the vulnerable. i would like to draw attention to a serious situation in my country, romania, caused by the closure, almost two years ago, of the neuromuscular pathology centre "dr. radu horia" in vâlcele, covasna county. as a result of the closure of the only major hospital in the country, people diagnosed with neuromuscular disabilities are denied specialized medical care. this hospital needs to be reopened urgently. i believe that the adjustments to public health budgets should not affect the most vulnerable. on the contrary, it is important that these categories should be given priority. a comprehensive reform in support of the health and care sectors is needed, complemented by increased and more efficient public investment to meet the needs of citizens, and in particular of vulnerable people.
in a time of continuing economic and financial crisis, it seems that those affected are also the vulnerable. their incomes have continued to deteriorate in this respect and have affected access to care to a large extent. i believe that this is a major threat to this social category and the european commission, as well as national governments, must take action and implement new measures. the fight against poverty must not be based on austerity alone, but must also be based on economic growth, employment, coupled with modern and effective social protection. to this end, we must make every effort to improve the strategy between european and national policies, to eliminate discrepancies between member states and, last but not least, to promote sustainable partnerships at international level between the institutions involved, both at european, national and regional level.
in writing. in several member states, inequalities are continuously increasing due to the worsening situation of the poorest and most disadvantaged people in these countries. in 2011, approximately 24,2% of the eu population were considered to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion. public services play an important role in areas essential to well-being, including health, education, justice, water, housing, transport and assistance for children and the elderly. the commission and the member states should set priorities to address gaps and provide effective access to health services for vulnerable groups, including poor women, migrants and roma in terms of social protection in health, ensuring the availability, affordability and quality of health care, as well as adequate funding in all geographical regions. mobile service provision is also important to bring services to those who require them in urban and rural areas. the commission and the member states need to set priorities, reduce gender gaps and ensure effective access of women to health and family planning services, and pay special attention to other vulnerable and disadvantaged groups in need of social protection in health.
there are obviously many shortcomings in the functioning of the european emergency number. firstly, the fact that only 27% of european citizens are aware of this number, despite the information campaign, confirms to me that the methods of disseminating information need to be re-examined. another concern is the methods of locating the appellants. first, access to the emergency number of people with disabilities and how they can be identified. on the other hand, we have received signals from european citizens complaining about the limited ability to locate in isolated areas or where road signs cannot be provided. another problem is the difficulty of emergency crews accessing callers. i suggest that local and regional authorities provide alternative access plans for emergency situations. i would also like to include in this framework the interlinking of the above-mentioned plans at interregional and cross-border level.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for their continued interest in the european emergency number, 112. the commission is ever vigilant and provides support to member states, as outlined earlier. we will keep the parliament updated as the experts provide us with eu-level solutions for the issues you have raised. allow me to take this opportunity to invite you to continue to encourage member states to ensure that the use of 112 is integrated in their policy and actions.
in writing. 112 is designed to reduce the response and reaction time of emergency services across europe. in addition, people travelling in the european union know that the same emergency number is valid in all countries. i would point out that council decision no 396 of 1991 on the introduction and implementation of the single european emergency number requires member states to ensure the application of the single emergency number procedures and the popularization of the 112 number throughout europe. an example of good practice is in romania. if in 2007 the european commission blamed shortcomings in the implementation of the decision, now, according to the 2013 flash eurobarometer, over 90% of the romanian population knows and uses the 112 number for emergency situations. financial infringement procedures for non-implementation of technical telecommunications directives imposed by the commission on, among others, italy and lithuania, do not solve the problem of the low level of popularity of 112 as a european emergency number. i call on the member states to underline that they have an obligation not only to implement the technical provisions but also to popularise 112 as the single european number so that people can access emergency services as quickly as possible.
in writing. on 12 september 2011, the european parliament adopted written declaration 0035/2011 on the need for a 112 emergency service that is also accessible to people with disabilities. this statement called on the commission to present legislative and standardisation proposals so that 112 services are also accessible to deaf, hearing and speech impaired users, and to propose a service using sign language through video and text-based technologies. unfortunately, the number 112 remains inaccessible to a large proportion of people with disabilities. i ask the commission to make efforts to implement and promote the eu-wide emergency call number. the commission should implement the use of next generation technologies for 112 and mandatory accuracy and reliability criteria for the location of the caller to the emergency services. last but not least, i ask the commission to present an action plan to support member states in their information and public awareness campaigns on the european 112 service.
member of the commission. − madam president, we welcome parliament’s report on connected tv. this timely report addresses a wide range of issues which reflect the complexity of convergence in the audiovisual sector. the commission has itself recently published a green paper on ‘preparing for a fully converged audiovisual world’, which is the basis of an ongoing public consultation. connected tv and the subsequent convergence of ict technologies presents opportunities and challenges which will impact those in the audiovisual sector and the values underpinning this policy area. we will assess mrs kammerevert’s report alongside the expected inputs of the green paper consultation. as stated in your report, we will also be analysing, amongst other things, how convergence will impact the relevance and usefulness of the existing regulatory mechanism. we are therefore looking forward to receiving feedback on this question in the public consultation. with regard to increasing convergence in the audiovisual sector and the impact on the audiovisual media services (avms) directive, we have already encountered a wide range of views. while some point to the need for adjustments, others argue that the directive – which was adopted not so long ago – still works well. the option of self- and co-regulation has also been mentioned. this is why we have included these questions in the green paper. the commission is open-minded regarding the necessity for a review of the avms directive in the follow-up to the green paper consultation. if such a review were to be identified, we would consider this for the future. the consultation is open until the end of august 2013. we look forward to good cooperation with parliament on the preparation of any future audiovisual policy initiatives, be it through legislative action or other measures. the commission’s goal in this area is to ensure economic growth and respect for european values, including the promotion of cultural diversity.
in writing. technological progress has led to increased user autonomy, by combining linear television, radio and the internet in what we call connected television. in addition to their economic nature, the media also serve a cultural purpose of particular importance to society. it is therefore vital to regulate the quality of the services offered, both in terms of content and advertising. in this context, the protection of minors and, for example, the need to ban certain advertisements for health reasons is a particular issue. it also considers it important to encourage media service providers to ensure accessibility for visually and hearing impaired people, whose situation varies widely depending on their country of residence. i also think it is important to educate european citizens about the media through initiatives targeting all age groups, so that everyone can keep up with technological developments. i also believe that more attention needs to be paid to the protection of personal data. the possible abuse of the collection of information, which is recommended to be done only with the consent of the users concerned, should be avoided.
in writing. − even though i voted in favour of the report, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the georgian government is using a double standard in its communication with external partners, especially those in the european union. on the one hand, the commitment to continue internal reforms, leading to eventual european integration, is reiterated, and on the other hand, arrests, intimidation, pressure on political opponents, who are in fact the ones who opened georgia's path to the european union, are taking place. all the while, there is no concrete reaction from the european institutions. the european parliament, deeply divided on this issue, has seen former ministers, former parliamentarians and even a former prime minister arrested.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because attacks on computer systems have a double negative effect. on the one hand, they put users' personal data at risk and thus can cause material or image damage. and when targeted at public information systems, they can even endanger a state's national security. there have been several similar attacks in romania, targeting classified information. the romanian intelligence service said that they were rejected, but there is a constant risk of repeated such incidents and even the theft of confidential data. coordination between member states is essential, in particular as regards the exchange of best practices and methods of countering such attacks. cooperation may also aim at identifying and subsequently holding accountable those who commit the attacks.
in writing. − information systems play a vital role in the daily activities of european citizens. economic, social and political activities are increasingly dependent on these systems and addressing cybersecurity at european level is becoming an urgent and important issue. we are all aware of the seriousness, scale and extremely high costs that cybercrime can bring to member states. i therefore welcome this report, which aims at harmonising the laws of the member states with regard to the establishment of a european criminal framework for sanctioning cybercrime. for the optimal management of the phenomenon of cybercrime, member states and authorities need to cooperate and recognise the need for the most complex and effective monitoring and verification system. even the most innocuous attacks and identity theft, as well as any attempt to sell or make available certain types of devices intended to facilitate such operations, should be treated seriously and penalized, with the main objective of preventing much more serious situations that may endanger the daily activities of citizens, institutions or different businesses and organisations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it represents an important step forward in equipping the european union with the tools to fight against the cyberattacks that increasingly affect european citizens and the european economy. information crime causes damage estimated at several hundred billion euros annually and also affects citizens' trust in information services and products. it is therefore necessary that the european union, through this new directive, apply harmonised sanctions based on common definitions of these offences. at the same time, the european union must also take care of the prevention of cyberattacks and equip itself with the necessary legal and institutional tools. at the same time, better cooperation between the competent authorities and institutions is needed, both at eu and international level.
in writing. - new technologies and the network not only offer numerous opportunities for the exchange of information between the various member states, but also pose serious problems for the security of information systems, which we have all seen tested in recent months by a number of cyberattacks. the problem of safeguarding the free flow of information and, at the same time, maintaining the confidentiality criteria necessary to protect the security of the citizens, the institutions and society as a whole in the european union is therefore a matter for the attention of the community legislative bodies.
in writing. − globally, approximately €768 billion is lost annually as a result of cyberattacks. the european union is harmed: cyberattacks cause material damage and endanger the security of citizens, public authorities or private entities. for example, in the uk in 2010, a botnet virus called zeus stole 822,000 euros in just one month. cybercrime can only be prevented, detected and punished by harmonising member states' legislation, deterrent sanctions and intensive and sustained cross-border cooperation within the union and with partner countries.
in writing. - i have always maintained that there must be a well-defined balance between the protection of privacy and national security issues. if the right to privacy is being violated, then you need objective and concrete reasons to prove that the person in question is a threat. furthermore, abuse can never be ruled out, for those operating such surveillance programs could use the information for their own ends. what's really shocking is the complicity of some it companies, who didn't warn their users about the possibility of their activity being monitored. it is a serious breach of the terms and conditions of use of online social platforms and those affected included innocent citizens of the union who have seen their trust shattered by such practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i believe that, less than a year after the european elections, european citizens should know that they will not just choose a party or a person to represent them in parliament. they will also vote for the president of the commission, which is why i would also like to call on all european parties to nominate the candidate for the presidency of the commission in good time. and the european council must take the results of the elections into account when proposing a candidate. it is a very effective way of increasing the transparency of the european decision-making process and thus of increasing citizens' trust in the union. especially in times of crisis, when the union is facing a decline in popularity, such measures are welcome. last but not least, i want to hope that we will have a campaign based as much as possible on european issues that directly affect the electorate.
in writing. the european parliament is one of the institutions of the european union. since 1979, the members of the european parliament have been directly elected every five years by free and secret universal suffrage in each member state of the european union. i voted for this report because it makes concrete recommendations for the 2014 elections. i support the rapporteur's proposal that member states and political parties should lobby for a higher proportion of women on the lists of candidates and, where possible, encourage the drawing up of lists that ensure equal representation. i also welcome the proposal that 'political parties are also asked to nominate candidates for the presidency of the commission, with sufficient time before the elections, so that they can run an intensive campaign, at union level, focusing on specific european issues, based on the party platform' and at the same time i also stress the need for member states to organise a public campaign to encourage citizens to participate in the vote, in order to stop the decline in turnout.
in writing. the recommendations in the text, which i voted for, are aimed at involving the european citizens more closely in the election of their representatives to the european parliament in may. in this sense, the community institutions and the parliament in particular, as the only democratically elected body, are called upon to play a civic and institutional role aimed at greater communication, more effective dissemination of european dynamics and greater awareness of the citizens-electors of the candidatures that will be proposed to them. with the historical and social developments of recent years, the 2014 european elections represent a challenge to democracy and participation to which we are called upon to respond in a convincing way, to overcome the objections and criticisms, never constructive, of the anti-europeanists.
in writing. − participation in european elections has been declining continuously since 1979, but a european barometer conducted before the 2009 european elections shows that more than half of european citizens want the european parliament to play a greater role than it does today, while only one sixth want the opposite. in response to the wishes of our citizens, the european parliament has been given greater powers through the amendments to the treaty on european union that entered into force in december 2010, and is now a co-legislator alongside the council. i am convinced that the majority of european citizens - who directly elect us - want us to go further in our role in decision-making. a european parliament with greater powers, including in the election of european commissioners, would therefore increase voter turnout and give more legitimacy to the other european institutions. i also support a proposal which has been discussed but is not in this report, namely that a significant proportion of european commissioners should be elected from among the members of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because the arms industry is strategic for the european union and is an important source of income for many member states. but unfortunately, too often the arms exported by member states have ended up in the hands of more or less legitimate military groups. i also want to draw attention to another problem generated by the lack of control over arms exports: the use of child soldiers in africa. the latest estimates put the number of child soldiers in africa at between 100,000 and 200,000. they generally have the riskiest jobs. they have to plant explosives and learn how to use pistols and rifles. whether it's poverty that drives them to enlist or forced recruitment, the problem persists. finally, i would like to welcome the decision of the un to ban countries that recruit children from participating in international peacekeeping missions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that it calls for the implementation and strengthening of the common position to prevent arms exports that could harm the development prospects of the beneficiary country, could aggravate conflicts or violate fundamental human rights. i therefore welcome the initiative of the member states to improve the situation so that information on arms exports is public, accurate, up-to-date and comprehensive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because, as services contribute to over three quarters of the union's gdp, i believe that an international agreement in this area would only benefit the member states. the union must expand its export market, especially as we are the first in this area globally. the crisis has led many countries to restrict external access to the services market, and european firms have been hit hard. a legal agreement would create more certainty for european companies and could help overcome the effects of the crisis, including by reducing unemployment. improving public procurement rules, but also competition, will be a priority. another objective is to achieve the widest possible access for european service providers to third markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because, unfortunately, in the case of the single european area, instead of extending the free movement of goods, new barriers are being created. whether we are talking about the fisheries or the agricultural sector, it seems that this agreement is being used by some states only in their own interests. the european commission should intervene to stop such practices, which ultimately undermine the functioning of the union's internal market. european producers must have a predictable and stable economic environment that does not affect their exports through unilateral decisions. i also believe that the new duties imposed are a barrier to imports and if they are maintained by norway, the union should adopt similar measures.
in writing. − for the european union to become as competitive as european leaders and citizens alike want it to be, all existing opportunities must be exploited. the digital single market (dsm) represents an opportunity for the eu, which is why i believe that the european executive must act urgently to remove the obstacles preventing the completion of the dsm, including by simplifying the vat legal framework and ensuring access to secure pan-european payment services. due to the changes in the european labour market and beyond, i believe that more and more attention should be paid to the development of digital literacy and e-skills for all age groups, which is why i encourage member states to make the necessary investments in this regard, also using existing financial resources at european level, such as the european social fund. i welcome the commission's intention to propose a new telecoms package, which will include measures to eliminate roaming charges in the near future. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the digital single market and e-commerce are growing sectors, with an increasing share in the european economy. it is important that the union regulates this sector and takes account of the many benefits it will bring to the economy, especially in the coming years, when its importance will increase even more, representing the creation of many jobs, especially for young people. however, certain matters need to be completed. for example, improving access of smes to information and communication technology infrastructure through broadband access and efficient use of the internet. moreover, it is necessary to completely remove barriers to cross-border services, such as the cost of payments, and to modernise the legal framework for intellectual property rights. finally, the union needs to focus on improving consumer confidence in the online marketplace, but also on the importance of alternative and online dispute resolution mechanisms.
in writing. − the eu economy is undergoing significant structural changes that are affecting its global competitiveness. the fragmentation of the digital single market puts consumers' choices at risk as consumer confidence, their safety in the market and their awareness of their rights need to be fostered, with particular attention to vulnerable consumers, as it is essential to provide union consumers with better protection in relation to products and services that may endanger their safety or health. i believe that consumer confidence is essential for electronic commerce, both national and cross-border, and that it requires the quality of security, traceability and authenticity of products, the prevention of illegal or unfair practices and compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. − in an increasingly information society, european citizens need new high-quality e-government services, and this can be achieved by adopting innovative technological solutions such as e-procurement, which can and should facilitate the continuous delivery of information and services, but also other measures such as electronic identification, electronic documents, electronic signatures and electronic distribution services. this requires stimulating innovation and investment in e-skills, as well as encouraging the involvement of smes, which can help to combat unemployment, especially among young people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because if we are talking about unequal access to care services, the most concrete example is the roma. beyond facing discrimination in all aspects of daily life, they are not guaranteed even minimal access to health services. according to studies, over 62% of roma in marginalised areas were affected by this problem, compared to 31% of the majority population. and we're not just talking about specialized health care, but basic things like vaccinations and regular check-ups. in addition, in some countries, such as romania, not only is nothing being done to improve the situation, but attempts are being made to further exclude roma from society, contrary to the objectives of the national and european roma strategy.
in writing. − it is clear that the vulnerable care sector is under increasing pressure as costs are reduced, although demand is increasing. these cuts, whether in services or social benefits, affect both people in need of care and people providing care. i believe that short-term reductions will create long-term problems that cannot be quantified. there is now growing evidence that social inequality continues to worsen in some parts of the eu, due to the deterioration of the situation of already vulnerable groups, which means a worsening of the poverty of people. this has serious consequences for the poverty reduction and inclusive growth objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the support for this report is motivated by the fact that the economic crisis had a double effect on this specific field, affecting both the vulnerable groups that require professional care and the carers. what is more, the support for this report can be seen as an action integrated into the policy agendas of tackling the youth unemployment problem and protecting various groups of workers from the effects of the economic crisis. the fact that the amendments proposed in order to untangle certain details were successfully incorporated into the final report represents a further positive aspect. the support for the final form of this report represents, first of all, a further commitment to assuring the quality of welfare within the european union.
in writing. - the multiannual financial framework, which we recently gave a political 'yes', has seen its ceiling reduced for the first time in eu history. as we all know, the battle between austerity and the need to invest for growth and development has had to find a compromise. in this context, funding measures to ensure assistance to vulnerable groups are seeing their availability diminish, just as demand is increasing. on the other hand, thanks to the work of the european parliament, we have been able to increase the funding for food aid to the poor. it is clear that this is not enough and that the eu's role must increasingly focus on addressing the problems of access to assistance for vulnerable groups, particularly in a time of economic crisis such as the present one.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the most affected by the crisis are the vulnerable groups. in 2011, 24,2% of the union population were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. at the same time, the crisis has triggered rising health care costs. this has made access to health care more difficult. one example is poor eu citizens living in other member states. their care is costly to the host country and leads to reluctance, sometimes refusal, by the host country to treat them. i draw attention to the principle of equal access to health care. a well-functioning health system contributes to economic development and well-being. i remind member states that by signing the tallinn charter, the union committed itself to respecting the world health organisation's principles for guaranteeing access to health services. i reaffirm my confidence in the 2006 council conclusions on the common principles and values of health systems in the european union. those principles underpin the inter-state mobility of patients and the minimum package of healthcare to which they are entitled throughout the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because media services are essential to democracy, so they require specific regulation. the concept of connected television is becoming more widely known and new entrants will be competing with traditional players, so european policy in this area needs to be adapted to new developments and new market participants, both from the eu and from third countries. the adoption of internet-connected devices is increasing and, due to technical developments, the protection of exclusive rights and the integrity of content needs to be enhanced. furthermore, the use of hybrid devices should not interfere with the principle of separation of programme advertising or with the regulations on advertising breaks. at the same time, operators' access to the platforms must be ensured without discrimination, giving them fair market participation. finally, it should be borne in mind that the differences between vat systems at european level will become more pronounced with the advent of connected television.
in writing. − millions of europeans watch their favourite tv series on a smartphone on the way to work, access online content on their living room tv or post user-generated content online. there are over 40.4 million 'connected tvs' in europe, and by 2016 these could be present in most eu households. these changes are erasing the traditional boundaries between consumers, broadcasting and the internet. connected tv represents an important technological step towards media convergence, which has the potential to challenge important media regulatory decisions. in all member states, linear services of public and private television are given a special social significance, which in many places is enshrined in law. despite the intertwining of technologies, the appeal of television to the masses and its social significance have not changed. as the linear media continue to enjoy a wider sphere of influence, it must be subject to strict political constraints.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that both the content of tv programmes and the content available on the internet are subject to different regulatory standards and present a risk of discrimination when it comes to availability and accessibility. i think one mode is more appropriate for both forms of content to be available on tv. all forms of media, whether linear or non-linear, must also comply with rules on child protection and cultural diversity, ensure transparency and quality of information and protect media pluralism.
in writing. − in a constantly changing technological and media environment, the market positioning logic of commercial and publishing operators in both the public and private sectors needs to be re-examined. while a service to the user must be guaranteed, a competitive level must also be ensured for firms that decide to invest in the sector. in this sense, with the implementation of new technologies, from digital to internet connections, the strategy for managing this significant market share needs to be rethought from a european perspective. i voted in favour of the recommendations in the report, which call for action on these issues.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in the work of the committee of the regions. the platform providers or portal operators control and decide what information they make available through those platforms. this behaviour can lead to abuse by providers and limit the diversity of content on media platforms. i would point out that audiovisual media services must respect freedom of expression, freedom of the press, the public's right to information and ensure diversity of opinion and pluralism of ideas. i support both internet freedom and the concept of net neutrality. a fundamental principle of neutrality is that governments should treat data on the internet in a non-discriminatory manner. equal treatment shall apply to, inter alia, users, content, websites, platforms, applications, types of equipment and modes of communication. i ask the commission to develop the current audiovisual legislation to ensure fair competition, freedom of the press and freedom of information for the public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i too am convinced that the adjustment of the budget for the accession of croatia is a measure that the union must adopt. the adjustment of the financial framework by including commitment and payment appropriations was proposed by the commission and this allocation was made in accordance with the breakdown proposed by the accession treaty and on the basis of the conclusions of the accession conference of 30 june 2011. i regret the delays we are seeing from the council in the final approval of the brf, which was to be completed before 1 july 2013, and i welcome the fact that, albeit at a rather slow pace, all member states have finally ratified the accession treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, as i have shown on many occasions, i am a strong supporter of enlargement of the european union. as of 1 july, croatia became the 28th member state of the union, and i welcome it. the accession of croatia and the consequences of the need to cover the expenditure requirements of the union's policies resulting from the accession negotiations require an adjustment of the financial framework 2007-2013. i think it is normal that, when a new member state joins, the union should adjust its finances to allow the new state to harmonise its policies and to respect the commitments it has previously made. the increase in the ceilings for commitment appropriations and payment appropriations for 2013 is therefore a measure that the union must adopt.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that we must support and be supported in the drive for a deeper involvement of parliament in decisions on economic governance. moreover, the focus should be on implementing a democratic process to restore the confidence of citizens and economic partners in order to achieve growth and competitiveness. the commission must act as guarantor of the functioning of the new financial framework in the light of the present and future challenges. job creation, especially among young people, is an issue that needs to be addressed seriously, with a particular focus on the youth initiative in 2014-2015. close monitoring of the funds allocated should also be a priority. finally, i would like to stress the union's external relations and the need for our continued support for developments in the eastern neighbourhood and the deepening of transatlantic relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and i am very concerned about the instability in egypt. the situation is evolving very rapidly, and on july 3rd the army suspended the constitution and called new elections. unfortunately, egyptian politicians have not understood that the main issues that concern the citizens are economic in nature. and getting out of the crisis and ensuring a decent standard of living for the citizens should have been a priority for the political class in egypt. unfortunately, there has been a division, both among politicians and society. i hope that the situation will stabilize and that the next decisions will put the interests of the egyptian people first.
author. − djibouti is an important ally of the european union and the member states in the fight against terrorism and piracy in the horn of africa. the situation in this country has evolved into a relative indifference of the international community. it is true that the situation of the press in djibouti, compared by reporters sans frontières to a "media black hole", does not allow for correct information. but we cannot ignore what has happened in djibouti in recent months, following the parliamentary elections on 22 february. what should have been a step forward on the path to democracy for djibouti, as the opposition participated in elections for the first time since president ismail omar guelleh came to power, has led to drifts that are very worrying. the opposition's contestation of the results triggered a violent crackdown on the demonstrations, as well as a wave of arrests and convictions of several political leaders. on the other hand, the failure to publish the results of the vote on the ballot box maintains suspicions of fraud. finally, freedom of expression, already very fragile in this country, has been further degraded with the conviction and imprisonment of several journalists close to the sensitivities of the opposition. the european parliament must make its voice heard to demand that the djiboutian authorities end the repression of the opposition, release political prisoners and engage in genuine dialogue with the opposition to resolve the crisis. this is, by the way, the promise made by president guelleh last week. the european union will have to cooperate with regional organisations in this respect and i believe it could use the good relationship it has with djibouti to promote democratic reforms in the long term.
we are indeed concerned about the serious political crisis in djibouti, both because of the repression against the opposition after the elections on 22 february and because these elections represented a chance for the democratization of a country whose president was elected in 2005 with 100% of the vote. to overcome the tensions that have caused the victims, it is necessary, first of all, to clarify the allegations of electoral fraud. we call for an impartial investigation into the conduct of the parliamentary elections, with the african union and the arab league playing an active role as election observers. we also call on the authorities to respect the right of the opposition and citizens to express themselves publicly, including on social media. the european union, as the main donor to djibouti, has a duty to go beyond the partnership to combat terrorism and piracy, to get involved in the fight against illiteracy, unemployment and extreme poverty, which affects half the population and favours the maintenance of an authoritarian regime.
indeed, over 4,000 people have been killed in recent years in the boko haram offensive to establish an islamic regime in nigeria. ethnic, religious and sexual differences are the pretext for violence of unprecedented cruelty. children are being killed in schools and thousands of students are being forced to drop out of school. in this situation, the european union has a duty to strongly call on the nigerian authorities to make every effort to ensure that the rights of all citizens are respected. the federal government must strengthen its capacity to protect the population from extremist attacks and has a duty to act on the root causes of the conflict, in particular through the equitable redistribution of public revenues. we encourage the nigerian authorities to act in a spirit of tolerance and dialogue to defuse tensions in society. we also call for a return to the moratorium on the death penalty and the abandonment of homophobic legislation and aggression.
the reporter. − we have now come to the end of two years of work since the commission's proposal for a directive on the right to be assisted by a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the right to communicate after arrest. i would like to welcome commissioner viviane reding to this debate and thank her for her excellent cooperation in the work on this dossier and for supporting us throughout the negotiation process, which has been quite long and arduous. i also want to thank my colleagues in the other political groups for their contribution, involvement and consistency. it was a joint effort, it was a team effort, without which we could not have had such a strong position during the negotiations, so that they turned into a very good text. i would also like to thank the council presidencies which have been involved in the work on this dossier, and in particular the irish presidency, under whose auspices we have been able to reach this agreement. after the adoption of the first two measures of the roadmap for strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings, namely the right to translation and interpretation and the right to information, we are now about to adopt the most important of the regulations of this roadmap. access to an effective defence in criminal proceedings currently varies widely in the member states, depending both on the specific legal system and its practical applicability, which indirectly but significantly influences the union's policy on trust and mutual recognition. despite the existence of common minimum principles and standards, which derive from both the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights, the provisions governing the assistance provided by a lawyer differ significantly from one state to another. we therefore need legislation to ensure that the rights set out are guaranteed and we need a legal and professional culture to facilitate their exercise. practice shows that there is still a great deal to be done to achieve the effective realisation of procedural rights in criminal matters as an essential element of the right to a fair trial. the directive on the right to be assisted by a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the right to communicate after arrest is therefore an essential step in this direction. in the light of the union's desire to create a single area of justice, freedom and security, citizens must be satisfied that their rights are fully respected, that they are safe when travelling and that they enjoy the same guarantees in all member states. without the appropriate assistance of a lawyer, the effective exercise of other procedural rights may remain only illusory. once this directive is adopted, suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings, wherever they may be in the union, will have access to legal aid from the time they are informed by the competent authorities, by official notification or otherwise, that they are suspected or accused of having committed a criminal offence until the conclusion of those proceedings. the directive will be implemented uniformly in all member states, irrespective of the specificity of their legal systems, thus ensuring the same standards in the european union. that is why, in view of the permeability of borders and the freedom of movement within the union, the adoption of this directive is a remarkable achievement, i believe, which will improve the lives of millions of european citizens.
the right to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and immediately after arrest is a vital right in legal systems that ensure fair trials. we're talking about article 6 of the european convention on human rights, which guarantees a fair trial, including the right to a defence. i've won many cases at the echr when that right was violated, and that's why this project is so dear to me. the problem is that the right to a defence must be an effective and real one. for those who cannot afford to pay for a lawyer in a criminal case, the state has an obligation to step in and pay for a lawyer. unfortunately, this report has failed to include and ensure this right to defence for those who lack the financial means. i'd like to encourage by what i say today and pro bono defense. i think it's the duty of law firms, of lawyers to make that contribution to society.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, there is a near unanimity in this house that we are really doing something of the utmost importance for a european system of justice and fairness in all our member states. thank you for parliament’s collaboration in this codecision procedure in order to arrive at these results. we have achieved a lot but there is more to be done. many of you have also called for the next step. the next step, as i told you, will come in the autumn. it will be a package of initiatives: special safeguards for children, legal aid and a presumption of innocence. so if this is added to the whole package that we have decided on so far, we can really say that ‘on a bien mérité de la justice dans l’union européenne’.
the reporter. - thank you colleagues for your kind words and for the valuable debate we had this afternoon. in all the work that we have done on this case with the shadow rapporteurs, we have had in mind the need to strengthen the procedural rights of the accused and the defendant in criminal matters, but at the same time and to the same extent, we have had in mind the pursuit of the public interest and the need to ensure the premises of a good administration of justice. the purpose of criminal proceedings is the timely and complete establishment of the facts constituting crimes, so that any person who has committed a crime is punished according to his guilt and no innocent person is held criminally liable. these are the aspects which my colleagues and i have tried to keep in mind in our work on this dossier, so that we can achieve a balanced text. i welcome the points made by the commissioner regarding the future timetable the commission envisages for the launch of the next steps in the roadmap on procedural rights. both the measure on special safeguards for vulnerable suspects and accused persons and, in particular, the measure on free legal aid which, as we have seen, has been repeatedly highlighted here are essential instruments for completing this comprehensive legislative package to improve the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons and we hope to make progress in these directions as soon as possible.
i want to make it clear from the outset that i have no intention of disputing the fact that many of the concerns about rising food prices or excessive deforestation in the context of the development of biofuel production are well founded. these concerns have a real basis, which must be brought to the attention of legislators. without question, the priority is food agriculture, then industrial agriculture. however, i would like to emphasize the important role that biofuel crops play in animal husbandry. the european union suffers from a chronic protein deficit - over 70% of the plant-based protein-rich raw materials consumed in europe are imported, which affects the competitiveness of the livestock sector. or, one ton of biodiesel generates one and a half tons of protein-rich animal feed. i think that parliament should take a position on biofuels in order to find a balanced and rational solution. in the interests of both food production and the continued availability of green energy, the commission must also look for incentive-based solutions to encourage the production of uncultivated land.
in writing. – having once been touted as a big part of the solution to climate change, biofuels are now increasingly under scrutiny for their unintended and potentially damaging effects. initial concerns about competition with food crops and the consequent effect on food prices have been followed by further worries about indirect land use change, namely the destruction of carbon sinks, such as forests and wetlands. i therefore welcome the commissionʼs proposal to limit the amount which biofuels may contribute towards renewable energy targets, as part of a cautious approach to biofuel policy which would limit the potential damage caused by excessive production. i recognise the large efforts made by my s&d colleagues to encourage investment in advanced biofuels, in order to support the evolution of a renewable energy policy which does not put food in competition with fuel or drive the destruction of ecologically valuable land.
in writing. it is time for the european union to make real progress towards a functioning single energy market. to this end, the european commission and the council must act to ensure that member states remove the restrictions generated by national regulations and overcome the resistance of companies that are making a quasi-monopoly profit from the absence of a single energy market.
a few months ago, two french companies with more than 150 employees were sanctioned for failing to comply with the policy on equal pay for women and men, a first. financial sanctions may not be the best solution, but examples like this can encourage other societies to apply equal pay for women and men for the same work. the implementation of wage policies aimed at reducing the gender pay gap should not be seen as an external constraint but as an agent of internal transformation and modernisation of european society. this is also reflected in numerous studies at european level, which show that reducing the gender pay gap can generate between 0.2 and 0.4 per cent additional economic growth.
i would like to draw attention to a recent project by the romanian authorities, which could seriously harm young farmers. thus, the romanian government wants, from next year, to be able to buy agricultural land in romania, people must prove at least 5 years of experience in the field of agriculture or proof of specialized studies. i believe that such a measure is contrary to the european agricultural policies, confirmed by this parliament, which encourage young people to take up farming. farming without land is impossible, and the ban imposed by the romanian government means excluding young people from any chance of starting a business in this field. the measure also runs counter to the interests of romania itself, where less than 1% of farmers are young.
europe knows our former colleague, george becali, more as the patron of the famous football team steaua bucharest. well, this man was arrested and convicted, arbitrarily, on some made-up case. why would you do that? very simple: someone wanted to get their hands on the steaua team for electoral purposes, a team that this spring defeated the big teams ajax amsterdam and chelsea london, and now plays in the champions league groups. but the star's soul and financier is in jail, completely innocent, and he's being prevented from running this campaign. that's one of the reasons why the romanian judiciary is the black sheep of europe. i'm sounding the alarm and asking you to get involved in the release of our former colleague, who has helped many christian churches and many poor people. he is the father of three teenage girls and has an 85-year-old mother. the treatment he's receiving in prison is subhuman. what a shame! free george becali! i know.
a company owned by large investors in romania wants to start mining non-ferrous metals using cyanide technology. the authorisation of the verespataki mine investment is before the romanian parliament. the romanian government is ambivalent on the issue, and the decision is being made within a deadline. commissioner potocnik, through his spokesman, indicated that the commission had no intention of banning cyanide-based technology in the eu, and that authorisation of the issue was effectively a matter for member states. is it not a european issue if i want to create all the conditions for a potential environmental disaster in the union? moreover, any environmental damage would affect several member states. isn't that a european issue? if the commission is serious about its responsibility for the quality of life of european citizens, it should address cyanide technology and its potential use in warfare, and it should not ignore the overwhelmingly adopted 2010 european parliament resolution on the subject.
as of 1 january 2014, the land market in romania will be liberalised. beyond the fact that new jobs will be created, the new form of the law on the sale-purchase of agricultural land located in the outlying areas by individuals, as well as the establishment of the authority for the administration and regulation of the land market is welcome as it encourages the consolidation of agricultural land and not its fragmentation. one of the requirements of the law is to limit the acquisition of land to a maximum of 100 hectares by a family, which eliminates the tendency to speculate, and the area is sufficient for a family that has both the technological capacity to exploit it and, in addition, shows experience in the field. the establishment of the land market administration and regulation authority will ensure the publication of bids on its own website, verify the exercise of the right of pre-emption and create and manage a database of agricultural land in romania.
the implementation of the transport technology strategy for sustainable mobility needs to take into account the differences in transport networks between regions in order to develop an integrated model at european level, to reduce regional inequalities, but also to stimulate labour mobility with a view to strengthening territorial cohesion. it is necessary to pay close attention to the achievement of the missing interregional and cross-border links. as such, the establishment of a monitoring and information system for transport research and innovation will benefit all member states, provided that regional decision-makers receive information free of charge and on a regular basis, in order to improve access to and better use of european transport funds.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank ms kleva kekuš for her work on this report, which is very thorough and will certainly help the commission to develop its action. the commission shares the view that cohesion policy instruments should invest in energy and thereby contribute to competitiveness, job creation and growth. it is, as the rapporteur says, very important to emphasise the regional and local levels in terms of achieving the ambitious goals in the energy sector because regions and cities can work to find tailored local solutions – as the covenant of mayors has clearly illustrated. this applies too with regard to the design of energy measures under the cohesion policy programmes. it is also important to have a number of standardised instruments, including one for sustainable energy investment in residential buildings. we will work together with parliament to ensure that these residential buildings policies are really strongly established. we need to work here on transforming the energy system, and the new energy efficiency directive will bring the intensive renovation of buildings to the forefront as a means of meeting the energy efficiency target for 2020. our approach needs to be result-oriented, and that is why the commission is working on practical guidelines for designing and implementing investment in the area of sustainable energy in buildings in the context of cohesion policy funding. we expect a maximum level of private investment here to contribute to stimulating the emergence of properly functioning markets. in times of serious economic crisis, it is more crucial than ever to have programmes with the highest possible level of value added. member states and regions are currently working intensively to prepare their programmes for the next period. we need to tailor these programmes to the specific needs and potential of the regions in question, and we will then have a success story.
in writing. the report on energy efficiency measures in cohesion policy is an important step in the good management of funds earmarked for improving the energy efficiency of housing. improving the energy efficiency of homes is a priority, especially in eastern european states, where residential buildings have a high potential for energy savings, with a positive impact on the population and in particular on low-income citizens. the state i represent, romania, is an example of this thousands of collective housing buildings need to be thermally rehabilitated as soon as possible. i would like to draw attention to paragraphs 17 and 18, the text of which i proposed as amendments in the course of the committee debate. the first paragraph refers to the need for bureaucracy-free formalities for the use of funds for energy efficiency improvements in housing. the second paragraph aims to ensure direct, decentralised access to these funds by municipalities, without depending on the central administration. this decentralised system will allow high-performing municipalities to invest in thermal rehabilitation of buildings at a faster pace, without hindrance from government bureaucracy. implementing these suggestions would lead to more efficient management of funds and, by implication, to energy savings and savings for citizens.
in writing. – multilingualism and interpretation are essential for parliament to be transparent for the public, and for its legislators to work on highly technical legislative information in their own language and that of the people in their member state. efficiency and cost-effectiveness are extremely important but these aspects must not erode the availability of live and accessible information in the language of listeners/viewers across the eu. this is why s&d have tabled an alternative resolution that aims to get the right balance between cost-effectiveness and the defence of true multilingualism as part of eu culture.
since 2008, we have seen the collapse of the housing market in many eu member states, with serious consequences for citizens. many have lost their life savings or have been evicted from their homes, often as a result of faulty information from lending institutions. at the same time, as mr barnier said, a mortgage is often one of the most important commitments a family can make. in this context, i would like to welcome this regulation which aims to guarantee better consumer protection in the field of loans for residential real estate. it will, in effect, establish common standards at eu level for the calculation of annual interest rates, information and transparency. this directive will bring considerable benefits to all those concerned, including first-time buyers, and will create a much safer and more stable mortgage market.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has exposed the irresponsible behaviour of creditors and credit intermediaries, putting the union's financial system to the test. irresponsible lending and borrowing practices have created significant macroeconomic problems. loans in a foreign currency, without fully understanding the currency risks involved, have been to the detriment of the consumer, creating problems in the internal market for credit agreements. given the importance of mortgages for households in the union, i believe that we need a set of prudential requirements for creditors and credit intermediaries. consumers entering into a credit agreement for residential property and other types of property should do so in full knowledge of the risks to which they are exposed.
in writing. sound financial markets and the confidence of citizens and economic actors are prerequisites for a stable economy. manipulation of financial information can cause significant losses to investors and damage the real economy, as happened in the libor/euribor scandal, where various banks manipulated interbank interest rates, changing the amounts that people paid for loans and received in exchange for the money they saved. this regulation, which aims to eliminate market abuse, will therefore contribute to improving transparency, integrity and efficiency in the field, seeking not only to protect those involved in trading but also to avoid destabilising the financial market of the european union. by proposing a single legal framework applicable throughout the union and common sanctions, we are building a predictable environment that is conducive to investment and capable of contributing to economic growth.
madam president, i understand the concerns which have been expressed by our colleagues on the question of the use of implementing acts, versus delegated acts, in the supensionary mechanism which has been agreed. i respect my colleagues’ opinions on this matter. however, i must recall that the agreement which has been reached with the council has the potential to put an end to an unacceptable situation of inequality, which concerns millions of our fellow eu citizens, in the eu visa policy with the usa and canada. the reciprocity mechanism would provide an eu answer as an act of solidarity towards the citizens of romania, bulgaria, poland, the czech republic, cyprus and croatia, who are discriminated against in visa policy. although the text which was agreed on remains imperfect, in the name of the principle of solidarity, i ask you to support it.
in writing. − the report i have produced is a new step in the application of the provisions of the lisbon treaty. in view of the need for rapid alignment with the new fisheries legal framework, i consider the adoption of the report to be a step forward and i thank both the colleagues who contributed to the drafting of the document and those who voted in favour of it.
according to commission figures, in 2007, 40 000 of the 211 000 registered partnerships in the union were between partners of different nationalities. i would like to point out that registered partnerships are not provided for in the legislation of 11 member states: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. there is no harmonisation of property laws for registered partnerships, and this costs citizens time and money in seeking the applicable law and the competent court. article 81 of the treaty provides for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions in civil or commercial matters between member states. it also provides for the compatibility of the rules applicable in the member states concerning the conflict of laws and jurisdiction. however, the differences in the laws of the member states have prevented the partnership from benefiting from this provision. the report is beneficial because it proposes a single procedure for the enforcement and recognition of judgments, which will help citizens save money, on average, between eur 2 000 and eur 3 000 per case.
in writing - the rules on property rights for international couples are very complex and very difficult to interpret. there are currently no common rules at european level. the european commission put forward two proposals for spouses and registered partners in may 2011 to alleviate future legal complications in cross-border cases. the proposed regulations set out the courts competent to settle disputes concerning the property consequences of marriage or registered partnership and the applicable substantive rules. i believe that these regulations will ensure the free movement within the european union of judgments, court settlements and all relevant authentic instruments.
650 000 of the approximately 16 million international couples, that is, spouses from different member states, divorce each year in the union. property rights after divorce, but also in the event of death, remain an obstacle in the way of citizens, who waste time and money looking for the applicable legislation and the competent court. the differences in legislation between member states lead to a breach of article 17 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union, which protects common property acquired during marriage. moreover, resorting to the most favorable court, usually in favor of the wealthier party, violates equality before the law and the right to non-discrimination. it is therefore imperative that discrimination be prohibited and the right of access to justice guaranteed. this report will simplify existing conflicts of laws and procedures for citizens by establishing common rules in the property rights regime.
in writing. - the creation of a single european framework for jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition of judgments on matrimonial property regimes is a natural consequence of the harmonisation of legal relations between member states. the adoption of compatible rules on a property regime issue is important for maintaining the stability and efficiency of the european civil circuit. while the question of matrimonial property regime remains a matter for the member states, it is important that national rules do not affect the rights arising from marriage or its termination. i also support parliament's proposals on the need to resolve all legal problems and conflicts relating to matrimonial property regime as quickly as possible.
in writing. - a strategic approach to transport is one of the prerequisites for the sustainable development of european economies. as the effects of the economic crisis persist, a more efficient and coherent use of both the results of research in the field and national or european funds can be an opportunity to revive economic growth, create jobs and build a modern european transport system capable of meeting consumer expectations. in addition, in order to effectively integrate the results of research and innovation in the construction of this transport system, the european union and the member states need to ensure easier access to finance for smes operating in this field. they have the capacity to provide the necessary support to modernise and maintain a high level of competitiveness in european transport. last but not least, i believe it is equally important to take the road safety imperative very seriously.
in writing. - the european union must develop a genuine common transport policy, ensuring the availability of adequate transport within and between european regions and their coherence at local, regional, national and european level. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the strategy and its implementation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the strategy and its implementation. there are currently considerable differences in transport networks between regions and this requires investment in sustainable transport technologies and solutions in regions with specific disadvantages, while taking into account the potential of the connecting europe facility.
in writing. − i believe that innovative solutions for multimodal transport can reduce regional inequalities, help to stimulate labour mobility and have an impact on strengthening territorial cohesion. as such, this strategy should pay particular attention to building missing interregional and cross-border links, including in geographically fragmented regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cramer report because i believe that, in the context of the mobility challenges, the development of a european transport technology strategy must be one of the major objectives of the policies developed by the european union and the member states. this strategy will improve connections between different modes of transport and contribute to the eu's climate change objectives by reducing co2 emissions from transport. transport and mobility policy is essential for the development of a sustainable economy, but some vital links are currently missing. the european commission and the member states should therefore make sustained efforts to create a single european transport area that is intermodal, interconnected and resource-efficient. transport has a social and cohesion dimension, helping to reduce regional inequalities and improve access to mobility. i would like to draw attention to the need to invest in sustainable transport technologies in less developed regions, so that there is balanced development in line with the objective of cohesion. last but not least, particular attention should be paid to the exchange of good practices in the field of sustainable transport, as well as to the development of initiatives rewarding sustainable urban development projects, such as the regiostars awards.
in writing. − the report addresses a very important issue that is directly related to the guarantee of a fundamental human right, the right to defence. in doing so, the assistance of a defendant or accused person by a lawyer is essential, all the more so in situations where the acts under investigation are committed in a vast territory, the european union, where different legal systems, different criminal proceedings, different people coexist. it is essential that the right of defence be exercised and guaranteed in this complicated context. the report sets out specific measures to protect the rights of defence of accused minors, who must at the same time benefit from the general safeguards to safeguard the best interests of the child. however, i note the absence of measures to make this whole system more functional, such as the absence of provisions on cooperation between the bars of the member states to facilitate legal aid, and the need to set up bar associations to deal specifically and ex officio with these situations, many of which concern people who have no material means of hiring a lawyer.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text because it represents a major step forward towards democratizing access to justice for all our european citizens. the implementation of this directive in the member states will introduce better safeguards for persons in detention. it will guarantee access to a lawyer for anyone detained by the police, under arrest or simply suspected. the text, which was adopted by the european parliament today and is expected to enter into force in 2017, provides that anyone arrested in the eu will have access to a lawyer as soon as possible after being questioned by the police and deprived of liberty. one of the measures in the directive further states that any arrested person has the right to call a relative or another person, such as his employer or a consular authority. although i regret that the issue of free legal aid for people in financial difficulty was not included in the directive, i welcome the adoption of this text, which is an important step towards strengthening and harmonising procedural rights in europe.
mortgage payments amounted to around 52% of the gdp of the european union in 2011, i.e. over eur 6,5 trillion. this is of great economic importance. one of the main causes of the financial crisis was the excessive indebtedness of consumers and the processing of credit applications by banks without a careful check of applicants' income, and this was to the detriment of applicants. for example, in romania, at the end of 2011, 24% of loans were affected by arrears, i.e. 225 000 romanians could no longer pay their loans. i therefore support the imposition of responsible lending practices, the most important of which is the assessment under strict conditions of the consumer's ability to repay the credit. a minimum reflection period of 7 days must also be allowed before the loan is signed, so that the borrower can analyse all market possibilities.
in writing. - mortgages are often the most important and long-term financial commitment a family makes. mortgages are essential to be able to buy a home, almost 70% of properties in the eu are bought in this way. 'mortgage markets are of major importance in the internal market, but are only marginally or not at all integrated. in addition to the general obstacles to cross-border lending (even in the case of consumer credit), such as language barriers, different financial cultures and regional trust relationships, there are other obstacles to mortgage lending, in particular the major differences between member states' land laws, valuation provisions, legal regimes of land and mortgage registers and laws on enforcement.
i voted for this report. recent scandals of manipulation and leakage of information in the financial market have seriously damaged investor confidence. i'm reminded of the case of ian hannam, the former managing director of jp morgan, who illegally exposed the confidential information of clients and resigned after being fined £450,000. i assume mr. hannam has earned far more than the amount of this fine. i therefore call for the immediate opening of negotiations on the market abuse directive, in particular on criminal sanctions for market manipulation. by severely sanctioning misuse of financial information, the integrity of this market and the level of investor protection will be improved. it will also ensure a level playing field for everyone on the market at the same time.
in writing. - building a single market for financial services can help to boost european economies and create new jobs. the adoption of a system of strong and effective regulation will also make a significant contribution to the credibility of the financial system, which has been significantly damaged since the economic and financial crisis. there are several useful regulations at community level, but the pace of technological innovation, as well as the diversity of existing financial services, make it necessary to modernise legislation in this area. it is in the interest of european consumers and economic actors that problems such as insider dealing and market manipulation are prevented and tackled firmly. at the same time, european decision-makers must bear in mind that building a transparent financial system is essential both for the union's economic competitiveness and for the final recipients of financial services.
in writing. - in the current economic context a genuine internal market for financial services is essential for economic growth and job creation in the union. market abuse endangers the integrity of financial markets and public confidence in securities and derivatives. directive 2003/6/ec on market abuse introduced a general framework to combat market abuse. in its current form, the directive allows a latitude that can lead to legal uncertainty and create pretexts for infringements. therefore, i consider that the transformation of the current directive into a regulation is the right way forward to strengthen and update the measures to combat market abuse as it ensures uniform rules and definitions across the eu and ensures uniform implementation of the measures in all member states.
in writing. − i believe that the commission should propose a new and substantially amended draft regulation on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea and the belts and sound.
in writing. - the establishment of a genuine internal energy market is one of the measures which directly contribute to ensuring the union's overall energy security and sustainability. continuing this process must take into account that the accompanying benefits can also be felt at the level of competitiveness of economic actors in the european union. the completion of an internal energy market will not only boost the economic growth of european countries, but can also lead to job creation. i welcome the action and investment plan presented by the commission officials. i am confident that the start of the ambitious investment programme undertaken at this level can lead, in the medium term, to the achievement of real energy independence for the european union by developing its own potential and exploiting indigenous resources. i would also like to draw attention to the imperative of supporting the production of green energy as a decisive step in the fight against climate change by the union and its member states.
in writing. − energy prices will continue to rise as long as europe remains dependent on oil and gas imports and on insufficient investment to maintain and upgrade its energy systems. it is beneficial for europe to continue developing indigenous resources, which will lead to the emergence of new trading centres in the eu and give the union and the member states a real chance to set their own energy prices, including at regional and local level.
in writing. - i voted for the buzek report because it represents a step forward towards completing the single energy market. the report stresses the need to meet the commitments to achieve a single energy market by 2014 through better coordination of energy policies and cooperation between member states. for the moment, the eu's powers are limited, based on the principle of subsidiarity, with member states deciding how they use their energy resources and which sources they use. each government negotiates import contracts individually. some countries pay more, some countries pay less. one measure could be to centrise supply, by negotiating contracts at community level, for example for imported gas. the internal market for energy and gas should be fully operational by next year. it is estimated that without the single market, by 2035 the price of energy in europe would be 50% higher than in the us and 300% higher than in china. for consumers, the single market will mean more transparency in their energy bills and more choice. according to the commission, households could save up to €13 billion per year by switching to the cheapest supplier. for industry, the internal market will be an incentive not to leave europe, energy security will increase and costs will fall.
the european union imports more than 50% of its energy needs, which makes us dependent on relations with external partners and vulnerable to pressure from russia. in this context, diversification of energy sources is essential to maintain our independence in a future marked by energy crises. romania can become the largest wind energy producer in southern europe. romania's wind potential is 14,000 megawatts, the second largest in europe, and many investors have entered this market. a clear long-term strategy is needed and the difficulties faced by foreign investors in exploiting green energy must be removed. the government must also take measures to prevent possible imbalances in energy production and consumption. in addition, romania needs to reduce all obstacles to the way green certificates are managed and awarded.
in writing. - increasing the eu's energy efficiency is creating the conditions not only for a resumption of economic growth but also for the creation of new jobs, at a time when unemployment, especially among young people, has reached critical levels. at the same time, the european union must remain the leading global actor in the fight against climate change, driving global governance by example. in these circumstances, i support the conclusion of the report, which shows that investments in this area, as well as the allocation of european funds, are not expenditure but investments capable of reviving whole sectors of european economies and creating jobs. combining energy efficiency objectives with cohesion policies thus leads to both achieving the objectives set by the european states in the europe 2020 strategy and strengthening the bonds of solidarity within the union.
in writing. − at european level there is a large percentage of the real estate stock that is ageing. whether public or private, many of these properties have reached the end of their natural 40-year renovation cycle. they urgently need to adapt to new energy saving requirements and the european structural and investment funds play a crucial role in providing the necessary funding. on the other hand, there are rural and remote areas with ideal conditions for the development of efficient forms of decentralised energy production, which would result in significant reductions in energy losses associated with the transport of electricity over long distances. i believe that member states should make the greatest possible use of national and regional programmes for the design and construction of new energy-efficient buildings, but also for the phased upgrading of existing buildings to be energy-efficient, including buildings for low-income households.
in writing. − the new cohesion policy, which will come into force with the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, sets important objectives for both the member states and the regions, which will also benefit from significant european funding for the next seven years. in this context, we must not forget the european approach, which wants a europe at one speed and which is able to face efficiently the challenges that the future holds. in this sense, the reduction of energy waste and the use of alternative and/or renewable sources will have to find new impetus and not lose sight of the important objectives set. to achieve this, it is important that the activities are coordinated at european, national and regional level.
in writing. − cohesion policy is not only an essential tool for regional development, but also for ensuring the prosperity of the union as a whole. any political, economic and social entity is only as strong as the weakest link in the chain of the engine that runs it. at present, the energy efficiency of the european union is less than 50% of optimum capacity, which, at least mathematically, puts us on the mediocrity line. i encourage the report's initiatives to support the union 2020 commitment to impose a 20% energy efficiency strategy. thus, the effect of boosting energy productivity will be to reduce unemployment, help reduce budgetary expenditure in this sector and improve energy standards and networks in regional areas with socio-economic difficulties.
in writing. - the role of cohesion policy is to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities at union level. regions should prioritise their specific development objectives by identifying and developing their own energy efficiency measures according to their potential. academic research confirms that three years ago, 9% of european citizens were facing energy poverty. reducing the vulnerability of energy consumers can be achieved through investments in improving local energy generation capacity. currently, local and regional authorities have limited powers and responsibilities in terms of access to and use of energy resources. overcoming barriers to access to finance can be achieved by facilitating the use of innovative financial instruments and by removing budgetary constraints. a clear synergy between national energy efficiency targets and operational programmes is needed to ensure coherence in future partnership agreements. in romania, the change of the rules during the game in the case of green certificates for renewable energy production created imbalances and uncertainties. i support this report because i believe it is necessary to use the structural funds to finance sustainable energy projects and to attract private capital investment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and particularly welcome the approval of paragraphs 17 and 18, the text of which i proposed in the form of amendments during the committee debate. these points refer to the need for simple, unbureaucratic formalities for the use of funds intended for energy efficiency improvements in housing, and to the direct access of municipalities to these funds, within a decentralised system. implementation of these suggestions would lead to more efficient management of the funds available. i therefore hope that the member states will take account of the european parliament's suggestions in the interests of the citizens.
in writing. - any strategic vision for fisheries must take into account the importance of crossborder cooperation for the development of this economic sector and for the sustainable conservation of natural resources. the economic development of this sector is important for member states and job creation is a priority in the current socio-economic circumstances. the regional strategy must not ignore the danger of pollution the high number of endemic species in these areas, as well as the proximity of human settlements, are factors that must be taken into account by european decision-makers and economic actors. last but not least, it is extremely important that policy papers contain precise and effective provisions for the protection of water resources and the conservation of the hydrosphere.
in writing. − fishing is an important sector for most of the regions that face the adriatic and ionian seas, and i therefore believe that a strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas should take into account in particular the sustainable development and growth of the fisheries and aquaculture sector, including employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. in this context, i should mention that there are a number of similarities between fishing in the adriatic and ionian seas and fishing in the black sea, namely that the management of maritime activities and common resources is shared with several third countries. i would like to reiterate the need for a better coordinated and more intensive dialogue between the eu and its neighbours in the fisheries sector, and for the establishment of a separate body for the management of fisheries in the black sea.
mr president, we pay too much for interpretation. multilingualism is a principle of the union but its cost has become excessive. with 24 official languages, the european parliament’s interpretation services have to cover a total of 552 language combinations. in 2011, parliament spent nearly eur 57 million on interpretation services. the fact that for 2014 parliament plans to reduce interpretation expenditure by 23% compared with 2013 is encouraging, but it is not enough. for instance, interpretation should be done only on demand and unnecessary interpretation should be cancelled in due time to avoid situations in which there is interpretation, we pay for it, but no one uses it. i would also like to express my regret that the plenary adopted the amendment by the socialists, which would not help save taxpayers’ money in this area of interpretation.
in writing. - it is important that any initiative taken in this area contributes to the most effective implementation of the fundamental principle of the european institutions - multilingualism. the european parliament is par excellence an institution that must represent the diversity of ideas and identities in european society. moreover, multilingualism ensures that citizens and european legislators can communicate effectively and directly. at the same time, however, the european parliament must also take account of the financial constraints imposed by the current economic situation and the budgetary planning of the european union. reducing the costs of operating european legislation, including interpretation and translation, should not, however, affect the proper functioning of the institution and its relationship with citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the regulation of the online gambling market is a particularly sensitive subject. this is a specific economic activity and therefore the normal internal market rules should not apply to it. european citizens should be better protected against the serious risks of addiction linked to the development of these online games of chance. it appears that the development of such a consumer protection policy has so far been better executed at national rather than european level. that is why i support and encourage, as does the socialist and democratic group, the development of cooperation and coordination in this sector between the member states of the european union. in fact, despite our ambition to harmonise the online gaming market at european level, it seems that it is still too early to build a true pan-european online gaming market, because of the risk that the most vulnerable european consumers would face in the face of the risks of addiction.
in writing. - the practice of gambling, particularly online gambling, is now increasingly widespread and requires specific intervention by the legislator to counteract the negative effects of possible abuse and illegal gambling. the aim of the report is to regulate online gambling in the internal market and, specifically, to guarantee the rights of consumers in order to protect them more and more against any unfair practices. i would also like to add that i am firmly convinced of the need to carry out adequate information campaigns to raise public awareness of this sensitive issue and thus actively contribute to the action to combat the spread of the phenomenon.
in writing. − the growth rate of online gambling is 40% from 2011 to 2015, according to the commission's estimate. therefore, we need legislation to protect consumers who bet online. addiction and pathological gambling disorders are just two of the risks. another important aspect of gambling is fraud and money laundering. we must fight these criminal organizations and confiscate the proceeds of crime, even in the absence of a criminal conviction. i therefore call on member states to pay particular attention to online gambling and to increase cooperation between gambling regulators and consumer organisations.
madam president, the report we are debating today is tackling the most important problem confronting europe today. youth unemployment is a pan-european disease that destroys the social fabric and threatens the future development of our societies. the report stresses the importance of education as a key to delivering a generation of employable young people. i think this is undeniable, but not enough. youth unemployment says something about the strength of our economy, so if one wants to deal with this issue, one needs to create a better economic environment. yes, there is a need for better convergence of school curricula and ground realities. yes, early school leaving should be discouraged and, yes, we should encourage a mentality based on continuous learning. however, none of these will work in a frozen economic environment. a famous economist once remarked that in the long run we are all dead. it could also be said that in the long run we are all wiser and better educated. but what about today? because we have to do something about youth unemployment today. job creation only comes when the potential of the private sector is released. this can be achieved by courageous fiscal incentives, and particularly by cutting down the bureaucracy that hinders the creation and development of smes. i think this is a good report and i also think this is only the first step.
i want to see youth-led organisations, youth-led organisations, mobilized to address youth unemployment and build pathways to recovery. i'm trying to support a charity like this myself. every summer, in four countries, we teach entrepreneurship to high school students. the active participation of young people in society, especially when combined with prior experience abroad, is one of the conditions for a dynamic labour market. secondly, one of the key factors in the functioning and effectiveness of the european union (eu) is the capacity to learn, to be open to each other's achievements and to adapt. analysing the activities of regions with low youth unemployment and highlighting good practices in regions with high unemployment. thirdly, young workers should be informed by all possible means of the opportunities for traineeships and jobs in their region. it is in the eu's interest to make efforts to ensure that young people are properly remunerated for their skills, so that young professionals do not increase the competitiveness of other regions and countries.
i would like to draw attention to the serious problem of unemployment among young people in rural areas, a subject which is unfortunately not reflected in the motion for a resolution. in romania, the member state i represent, 6 out of 10 young people over 19 in rural areas have never had a job. very seriously, only 5% of rural youth have an income from agricultural work. i believe that, in these circumstances, the member states have an obligation to make the most of the possibilities offered by the european agricultural policy to support the establishment of young farmers. under the reform currently under discussion, the funds for them would increase from eur 40 000 to eur 70 000, along with other financial incentives. member states should also make the most of the possibilities for european funding for the creation of small businesses and new jobs in rural areas. i believe that the potential of agriculture to attract young people from urban areas, even the most qualified, who want to orient themselves towards agricultural work should not be overlooked.
in a europe that is failing to find the most effective solutions to overcome the crisis, with factories closing every month or relocating outside the union, choosing a profession or field of activity is becoming increasingly difficult not only for young people but also for parents and teachers who need to guide them in identifying the field that best suits their skills. the problem of youth unemployment is made all the more difficult by the growing number of those who drop out of school before obtaining a qualification or a diploma. the flip side of this is the problem of 'smart wasting', where highly skilled young people work far below their potential, which has negative effects on them, socially and psychologically. i believe that it would be beneficial to work more closely not only with the commission but also with the member states to implement instruments which have been tested in other member states for reducing youth unemployment and for improving youth mobility, especially as there are over a million vacant jobs in the european union that are not being filled because there are no people interested in those regions.
in writing. at european level, the unemployment rate has reached 23% and in crisis-affected countries (greece and spain) 55%, with the chances of an unemployed young person finding a job being low. through a series of actions, such as the employment package (including the youth guarantee), the eu is seeking to increase the employment rate of young people. the youth guarantee facility is a commitment by member states that, within 4 months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education, young people under 25 will receive a good quality offer of employment, further education, apprenticeship or traineeship. the scheme was approved by eu ministers in april 2013 and is due to be implemented from january 2014. eu regions with a youth unemployment rate of over 25% are targeted , with three regions in romania where the youth unemployment rate exceeds 30%: centre, south east and south mountain. this initiative has been allocated eur 6 billion of european funds for the first two years of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
mr president, the truth about cybersecurity is that we are always one step behind technology and its users. it is time now to adapt and we must do so quickly. the most important thing is to be balanced. we need secure cyberspace, with rules and a degree of control, but we need also to protect openness and the free flow of information and communication. some member states understand cybersecurity only as the prosecution of hackers, but it is much more than that. it is the regulation of an ever-changing environment. we need to identify its vulnerability – on the one hand financial and in terms of infrastructure systems and, on the other, in terms of vulnerable users, such as children, who need to be protected. but we also need to draw the line there. we also need to change our mindset and to have the issue of cybersecurity in every single document we publish or work with. we need the member states to adopt national cyber-defence strategies. there is a lot of pressure involved in this but we must continue.
europe has been through a difficult time. the financial crisis has generated an economic crisis and created major problems in most member states. the commission has reacted and proposed the necessary legislation to prevent similar situations and to create the possibility of redress. the european parliament has supported these proposals, often against the council's position, and as a result we now have strong legislation that needs to be implemented. governments, under internal pressure, have often used populist measures. the austerity-development-jobs debate has led to the rise of populism. the commission now has two mechanisms at its disposal to encourage member states to take the necessary measures for development and jobs: the european semester and the partnership agreement. the european semester can steer national budgets towards a policy of wise spending and investment for development and jobs. the partnership agreement should create synergy between national budgets and european funds. member states need to develop clear strategies on development directions and priorities to make the most of this synergy. i believe that the commission has a very important role to play in the period ahead and should not hesitate to take all the necessary decisions, irrespective of the member state concerned, to implement these mechanisms which can redress the current situation and generate economic growth and stability throughout the union.
in writing. the debate on the state of the union is, unfortunately, the balance sheet of a lost fifth of a century for citizens and for the european project. the austerity imposed by the popular vote has increased unemployment, poverty and euroscepticism. at the same time, the step towards what we call 'more europe' has not been taken. the barroso commission lacked the vision and courage to push the european construction forward. there are initiatives such as the 'banking union' and the 'youth guarantee' that are stuck in a bureaucratic process that needs to be accelerated. in this respect, there are significant efforts by parliament to boost cooperation and transparency in decision-making, such as the agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank on the single banking supervisory mechanism and the interparliamentary agreement on the eu budget for the financial year 2014-2020. unfortunately, the council is still trying to downplay parliament's legislative role and the importance it attaches to growth and employment. although austerity has disappeared from the vocabulary of the european people, it is a reality at union level, reflected in the council's perception of the european budget for the next seven years. it is unacceptable to cut, at the last minute, by one billion euros the budgets allocated to job creation for young people and innovation.
in writing. the state of the union must be seen through the eyes of the 500 million european citizens and their confidence in their own future. the employment rate is only 68.4%, research and development spending is only 2.02% of gross domestic product (gdp), 12.8% of the 18-24 age group have left school early and 119.8 million european citizens are at the poverty line or social exclusion. the state of the union cannot improve without investing in education and health, in decent jobs and in a decent pension. the eu needs to develop an industrial policy capable of rebuilding european industry in an eco-efficient manner. the eu's industrial development must be accompanied by measures to finance the european economy, so as to ensure both jobs in the eu and the eu's global competitiveness. it is unacceptable that today there are still barriers to the free movement of workers and that member states are faced with a regression from the social model on which the union was built. the union must defend the european social model, increase the competitiveness of industry in all member states and safeguard jobs throughout the union.
in writing. − linguistic and cultural diversity is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, enshrined in article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights: 'the union shall respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity'. since the death of the last speaker of a language is usually tantamount to the disappearance of that language, i believe that local authorities in particular must take remedial measures to this end, which can change this situation.
in writing. the language used by a given people is probably the most obvious and clear form of cultural identity. within the european union, where linguistic diversity is a fundamental principle, many languages are in danger of extinction. linguistic diversity enables european states to know and understand the cultural and social differences that coexist within the union, and the possible loss of these sources of tradition would undoubtedly damage the rich cultural and linguistic heritage of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of taking a step forward in the defence and promotion of all those languages which are in danger of disappearing, by implementing policies to revive them within the linguistic communities concerned and by allocating a sufficient budget to this end.
in writing. - i am in favour of protecting the unique diversity of the linguistic and cultural heritage of the european union. moreover, i draw attention to the romanian model, an example appreciated by colleagues in this forum, even in their interventions in plenary. i believe that the eu must adapt its joint programmes to support languages that are truly endangered. to do this, we have a multitude of financial instruments at our disposal: the programmes on documentation of these languages, for education and training, social inclusion, youth and sport, research and development, the culture and media programme or the structural funds. i stress the importance of new technologies and social communication platforms, which bring about changes in the paradigm of communication. learning at least two languages from an early age facilitates later learning and others, which supports the global and mobile society in which we live. i also support the intensification of the process of standardising languages which are predominantly oral in nature, which would subsequently help in the process of teaching that language. i also wholeheartedly support the protection of the linguistic heritage in the countries neighbouring the union, all the more so as these countries have expressed their option for a future within the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. i would also like to point out that the european union should be equally concerned about endangered languages or dialects in the countries neighbouring the union, as exemplified by the different dialects of the romanian language still spoken by communities in countries such as serbia. the parliament should also not passively witness the attacks against the romanian language in the provinces of the republic of moldova or in ukraine.
in writing. − the cultural heritage of linguistic diversity is the key to the eu's unity in respect for tradition. the ep has committed itself by voting on the own-initiative report, as over the last 10 years, despite repeated warnings from experts and the strong demands of europe's indigenous minority and regional communities, it has failed to take a stand on behalf of the institution to ensure their adequate protection. 10-12% of the eu's total population speak an indigenous, minority or regional language. the sheer size of this population compels us to act. member states that have not yet ratified the 1992 european charter for regional or minority languages and the 1995 framework convention for the protection of national minorities should do so as soon as possible. i welcome the fact that the document although not legally binding calls on the governments of the member states to condemn all practices that are directed or directed against the identity and language use of endangered linguistic communities or against their cultural institutions through linguistic discrimination or forced/hidden assimilation. the report is relevant to the hungarian language and, importantly for the hungarian-speaking community in the union, states that the commission must be aware that the survival of languages within its borders is threatened by the policies of some member states and regions, even if these languages are not threatened at european level. you are protected by the status of an official language in a member state.
in writing. − i welcome the overwhelming majority recorded at the vote on the alfonsi report on endangered european languages and linguistic diversity in the eu. this is a strong endorsement given by all the political groups of the ep and a strong message to the european commission and the member states. the diversity of languages and cultures in europe is nothing less than the living heritage which secures the sustainable development of european societies. i fully share the view that ‘teaching in people’s mother tongue is the most effective way of learning’ and i urge member states to implement this principle in their education policies. the ec’s multilingualism policy has to be revitalised and properly funded in the next mff. the new policy actions have to take into consideration the proposals formulated by the minority intergroup of the ep. fully-respected linguistic diversity is a vital contribution to european soft power, enabling the eu to enforce its global significance. this house recently debated the cost-effectiveness of interpretation at the ep. while i support the sound financial management principles, i urge all of us to bear in mind that full multilingualism strengthens democracy in our parliament.
in writing. − today we adopted the regulation that the executive directors of the european environment agency will have to be heard by the european parliament before being appointed. this is a request i made in my capacity as rapporteur for the 2010 discharge of the european environment agency. today, my request has been granted and thus my goal has been achieved. i welcome the fact that the european environment agency is now aligned with the european food safety authority, the european medicines agency and the european chemicals agency. we must not stop there, but make it compulsory for all eu agencies to hold these hearings before appointing candidates to the post of executive director. however, i regret that under article 1 of the amended regulation the hearing will only take place before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. in my opinion, this is not enough. the hearing should also take place before the committee on budgetary control. the members of the budget control committee will be going to these hearings anyway. an executive director must demonstrate managerial experience and knowledge, including in the field of public procurement. let's not repeat the mistakes of the past.
in writing. − private and public buildings, water supply and waste water disposal infrastructure, as well as businesses and agricultural land and forests were affected by flooding in large areas of the sava, kupa, mura and drava river basins in slovenia and the mura, drava and lavant river basins in austria, as well as on the territory of croatia, in 2012. as such, it is useful to mobilise the solidarity fund to support the efforts of local and regional authorities and private individuals and companies to remedy the effects of these floods, to show solidarity with all citizens affected by natural disasters.
in writing. − the use of biofuels has been steadily increasing over the last decade as a result of the eu's policy to limit the environmental impact of transport and reduce europe's dependence on petroleum-based fuels. the european parliament recognised the importance of promoting renewable energy. directive 2009/28/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel are aimed at combating climate change and reducing the eu's dependence on external energy sources. however, the main purpose of the two directives is in danger of being undermined by the effect of indirect land-use change, which may offset the greenhouse gas emission savings of individual biofuels compared to the fossil fuels they replace. scientific work shows that indirect land-use change emissions can vary substantially from one commodity to another in relation to the fossil fuels they replace and that greenhouse gas emissions related to indirect land-use change are significant and could offset, in whole or in part, the greenhouse gas reductions from individual biofuels.
in writing. − the development of the first generation biofuel industry has now led to the sacrifice of agricultural land for food. at the same time, the multiplication of greenhouse gas emissions from the increasing use of agricultural land for biofuel production negates many of the benefits of biofuels. this is a clear signal that attention and efforts should be focused on advanced biofuels. i therefore welcome the european parliament's vote in favour of limiting the use of traditional biofuels and moving more quickly to advanced biofuels from alternative sources such as seaweed and waste. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the eu's future energy policy, which aims to limit first-generation biofuels, i.e. those derived from agricultural crops, to 6% of final energy consumption in the transport sector by 2020, as opposed to the 10% target in existing legislation. advanced biofuels, generated from seaweed or waste, will need to account for at least 2.5% of energy consumption in the transport sector. the legislative proposal has important economic and ethical implications and is essential for the integrity of the eu's climate change policy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive which the socialist and democratic group sought to adapt in order to respond more effectively to the environmental and food challenges ahead. the production of biofuels from food crops contributes to price volatility, which is why the increasing demand for biofuels in the european union has a negative impact, in particular, on the access to food of certain populations. this is a very worrying situation. it is essential that people living in poverty do not suffer from food shortages due to the proliferation of policies that give priority to the production of biofuels. according to the oecd and fao, the price of basic foodstuffs is likely to continue to increase between 2015 and 2019, by at least 27% for wheat, 48% for maize and 36% for oilseeds, compared to the levels of 1998 to 2002. the potential impact of biofuel production on the prices of food raw materials should therefore be given greater consideration by the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a balanced approach to the food and fuel production dispute. i think this issue needs to be looked at with caution. the potential influences of crop plants for biofuels on food prices cannot be overlooked. at the same time, these crops play an important role in covering the proteinase deficit at eu level, which is of concern. my position was 'for' the final vote, to open the possibility of a second reading, where the excesses of the text could be eliminated.
in writing. − i supported the limit on the contribution of biofuels to renewable energy targets because of several major concerns about the unintended effects of biofuel production. we must not allow biofuel policy to cause the destruction of carbon sinks such as forests and wetlands, as this would only serve to undermine the co2 reductions which biofuels were intended to achieve.
in writing. - there is only one stock of european eel. i believe that a regulation is needed to put restocking in the right context, giving priority to the choice of spawning sites and to a correct assessment of the likelihood that restocked eels under 20 cm in length will reach sexual maturity.
in writing. − the customs union is an essential element for the functioning of the single market, which can only function properly through the uniform and consistent application of common and modern customs rules and systems. in order to support a dynamic environment for competitiveness and economic growth, while ensuring appropriate uniform levels of control of goods, i believe that modern and simple customs rules, based on state-of-the-art systems and allowing for the harmonisation of controls so that the economic operator is required to provide information only once, should be promoted.
in writing. − i believe that the further modernisation of the union's customs legislation should take due account of the views of economic operators in order to ensure effective administrative simplification.
in writing. − the farm accountancy information network was set up in 1965 to meet some of the requirements of the common agricultural policy, in particular those relating to income certification and the analysis of the economic activity of agricultural holdings. over time, it has evolved and the network has expanded to all member states. it is currently the only harmonised database containing microeconomic data, stating that the approach is the same in all member states. i consider it an important tool for framing and evaluating agricultural policies, as it collects data on income, inputs and outputs from a sample of farms representative of the eu each year.
in writing. − i consider it beneficial to extend the agricultural accounting information network on income certification to all member states, as this is the only harmonised database containing microeconomic data, but also that the data are public and can be consulted by any citizen of the union.
in writing. − the approach taken to the recent amendment of the fruit juice directive (directive 2012/12/eu), where the annex containing product names, definitions and characteristics was excluded from the scope of the delegation. i consider that such essential elements should not be amended by means of delegated acts.
in writing. − i voted to postpone the decision on the revision of the environmental impact assessment directive. i believe that such a decision cannot be taken without a thorough debate, which clarifies the commission's proposals and allows members to explain their views expressed in amendments.
in writing. i voted in favour of signing this agreement as it is an important step towards opening up european visa policy. in the context of the special partnership between the european union and cape verde, the union has undertaken a policy aimed in particular at promoting good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty. cape verde is a democratic and stable country, which upholds the values and principles of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the high standards and practices of governance that the country can boast of give every reason to further develop its relations with the union. the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas should contribute to achieving these objectives. it will facilitate, on a reciprocal basis, the issuing of visas to citizens of cape verde and of the union for intended stays of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. the agreement also implies the introduction of simplified conditions for the issuing of multiple-entry visas with a validity of 5 years.
in writing. - the impact of the crisis on young people should be tackled much more effectively, as youth unemployment has risen to unacceptable levels, especially in the south of the eu: for example in greece (59.1% in january 2013), spain (55.9%), italy (38.4%) and portugal (38.3%). member states should make full use of available eu funds and make full use of the options for finding viable solutions offered by the youth opportunities initiative for the benefit of young people who are not in employment, education or training. the eu youth strategy should help vulnerable young people by focusing on the overall participation of young people in civil society and mitigating the consequences of the current crisis on social inclusion and its effects on the health and well-being of young people. member states and the commission should focus more on developing cross-sectoral cooperation, with a particular focus on examining how approaches and methods of youth policy and youth activities can be used in other relevant sectors. at the same time, efforts in the field of employment and entrepreneurship should be encouraged, facilitating access to jobs and developing the innovative and creative capacities of young people.
in writing. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement on the readmission of irregular residents which accompanies the signing of an agreement on visa facilitation between cape verde and the european union. the two agreements are interdependent and parallel and must enter into force simultaneously. they represent an important step in the relations between the union and the republic of cape verde. these are the first agreements between an acp country and the european union on short-stay visas and the readmission of irregular residents. these two agreements are of great political importance and represent an encouraging step forward and a strong signal from the union. cape verde is a stable and democratic country which upholds the values and principles of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the high standards and practices of governance that the country can boast of give every reason to continue developing its relations with the european union. the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, which will operate on a basis of full reciprocity, will contribute fully to the achievement of these objectives.
in writing. − the report on the implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012 proposes appropriate solutions to the most pressing issues facing the young generation today in the fields of education, employment, social inclusion and health. i welcome the fact that this report clarifies the issues that have not been addressed so far by the current eu youth strategy, and suggests ways to improve member states' own policies so that they achieve the best possible results and achieve the objectives of the future strategy. the european union must put in place tools, policies and mechanisms to respond to the challenges facing the young generation today and to offer them better opportunities for their lives.
in writing. − youth unemployment is a difficult problem, especially for those who leave school before obtaining a qualification or diploma, and their numbers are increasing. we must not forget the category of young people who 'waste their intelligence'. these are highly skilled young people working far below their potential, which has negative effects on them, socially and psychologically. i believe that it would be beneficial to work more closely together between member states to improve the mobility of young people, given that there are over a million vacant jobs in the european union that are not being filled because there are no people interested in those regions.
in writing. − the year 2013 has been declared the european year of citizens. we need to involve better young people, to give them a chance, to share their vision of the european union. this report identifies the problems of european youth suffer, such as unemployment, school dropouts, no access to education, health problems, etc. it also focuses on solutions such as the implementation of the youth guarantee, involving young people in policymaking and their active participation in society, increased investment in education training and youth work. in this difficult period, the eu should work on providing more opportunities in education and training, supporting youth initiatives, funding education programmes and employment initiatives. this has a very important effect on growth in europe.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that has hit the union has led to an increase in unemployment among young people, with a negative impact on their well-being. the economic difficulties experienced by the union have increased the inability to employ young people and to disengage those already in the labour market. the youth strategy 2010-2012 was a good first step, improving young people's access to the labour market, education and training, but at the same time it is regrettable that some member states have not adopted any specific youth strategy. the european union has had nothing to lose from the lack of opportunities that young people have faced, which is why i believe that the budget for funding in the field of youth and education should be increased in order to effectively implement the union's strategy further. it is also important to introduce traineeships as part of vocational or university training to ease the transition from education to work.
in writing. - i voted for the papanikolau report because it sets out a framework for cooperation on tackling the problems of young people in the next decade and finding new opportunities for them. as the commission has proposed for the youth strategy, it will continue to focus on young people not in employment, education or training by encouraging the full use of european funds. we need to strengthen the policies undertaken by member states so that they achieve the objectives, but also the best possible results. the eu has called on member states to implement the youth guarantee as soon as possible and on those with regions with unemployment above 25% (including romania) to adopt a youth guarantee implementation plan by the end of 2013. the commission has sent country-specific recommendations to each member state. romania should therefore implement without delay the national plan for youth employment, introduce reforms in vocational education and training, align tertiary education with labour market needs and improve access for disadvantaged people; implement a national strategy to combat school dropout, with a focus on access to quality education, including for roma citizens.
in writing. - it is a well-known fact that unemployment among young europeans has reached unprecedented levels, reaching 59% in the case of greece. as we deplore the demographic crisis and its medium- and long-term impact on the pension system, a big question mark arises: why is the union trying to bring in labour from third countries when more than half of young people in some member states are unemployed? the phenomenon is that the qualifications of these young people do not match the requirements of the labour market, but are also overqualified in many cases, indicating a structural problem in european education. i would remind european decision-makers of the model of countries such as the united states, which have invested in education and training, investing considerable sums, even in budgetary constraints. i also draw attention to a worrying phenomenon that unfortunately occurs in eu countries: companies recruit young people for a trial period, and then after 3 months, when they should have hired them, they decide to terminate the contract. this can change if we make education and training strategic sectors, learning from countries like germany and austria, where youth unemployment is only 9%.
in writing. − young people are currently facing a very difficult labour market situation which requires decisive intervention and financial resources for appropriate investment. the unemployment rate among young people under 25 in the euro area has risen by around 50% over the past five years, from around 16% in 2008 to 23.9% in may this year, twice as high as among the working-age population. the effective improvement of the situation of young people depends both on state support and on enhanced cooperation between employment services, vocational guidance services, vocational training institutions and youth support services. actions to combat youth unemployment must be coordinated with those to stimulate economic recovery and reform employment policies.
in writing. − young people in the eu member states are currently facing a very difficult situation in the labour market. the unemployment rate among the working age population is 11%, while among young people it is twice as high (23%). the economic crisis that has affected and still affects eu countries to a greater or lesser extent has brought with it the cessation of new job creation and, more seriously, a reduction of jobs, as a result of the tendency of employers to save. i therefore believe that action to combat youth unemployment must be coordinated with action to stimulate the general economic recovery and reform labour policies. initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and to preserve as many existing jobs as possible are needed, and at the same time measures should be taken to encourage entrepreneurs to create new jobs.
in writing. - currently, young people are the most disadvantaged during the economic crisis, more than other vulnerable groups, and for many of them, current unemployment will most likely turn into long-term unemployment, with the risk of social exclusion. member states should develop a more specific approach, combining interventionist measures to combat early school leaving and the reintegration of young people who drop out of school with measures to ensure a smooth transition from education to employment and to increase the employment opportunities of young people. modernising education is necessary by making education policy a fundamental instrument for investing in the future of young people, by adapting the school curriculum to current and future labour market requirements. thus, a personalised career guidance system, which should be available from secondary education, would be useful in addition to a system of monitoring future job supply to ensure subsequent integration into the labour market. also, because of the impossibility of finding a job, many young people have been doing paid internships even up to 1 and a half years. it is important that training periods are recognised as seniority in the field of work.
in writing. − member states and the eu must continue programmes to support actions aimed at developing entrepreneurial and independent initiatives and individual talents of young people, to encourage and teach them how to set up their own business and where to seek help with administrative matters. as such, i consider it useful to promote a system of preferential conditions and benefits, in the form of tax exemptions or relaxations, which should encourage them in this direction.
in writing. this own-initiative report of the european parliament aims to respond to one of the greatest contemporary economic and social challenges for the european union. that's why i'm supporting it. youth unemployment is reaching dramatic levels across the union and should be placed at the top of the priorities of the european institutions. that is why i believe that this report is an important step in the fight against this problem. it is also a strong message to the council, the commission and the member states, stressing that all those involved in this matter must take responsibility and deploy all the necessary tools to do so. this action should include both educational institutions, enterprises and social partners at regional and national level, as well as other actors involved in this cause, such as youth organisations. jobs reserved for young people, apprenticeships and traineeships should meet a number of standards, in particular as regards salary guarantees. finally, the report makes it clear that austerity is not the way forward because it has contributed to the economic and social weakening of young people and to the increase in unemployment.
in writing. − youth unemployment is one of the biggest challenges facing europe today. member states and the commission need to provide far more money to fight youth unemployment. there is a link between austerity, endorsed by the right-wing governments, and youth unemployment and this report acknowledges that fact. the report identifies the major problems and focuses on several solutions. the report stresses that the involvement of all relevant stakeholders, at local, regional, national and european levels, and in particular student and youth organisations too, is essential for the successful implementation and monitoring of a variety of measures to foster youth employment. the report highlights the importance of education, youth programmes, self-employment, etc. in one of its main points the report mentions that the commission and the member states should support young entrepreneurs and young self-employed people by facilitating and simplifying access to finance, reducing administrative burdens and creating overall preferential conditions, which should include efficient counselling and mentoring and providing business incubators. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, but i consider it incomplete because it does not address the issue of rural unemployment. the proposed solutions also fail to mention the important contribution that european agricultural policies can make to job creation, in particular by supporting the establishment of young farmers and by financing small enterprises.
in writing. − supporting the tertiary sector at european level is of the utmost importance for the economic development of the european union. the services sector currently accounts for more than 65% of the union's gdp and provides a significant number of jobs in the member states. it remains the central element of the common market, ensures the continuation of the integration process and is the most important link between european societies and states. there is still a major potential for supporting growth and job creation in the services sector. at a time when the global competitiveness of european players is essential for economic success, the removal of unjustified restrictions on the services sector could lead to a 2.6% increase in union gdp over the medium term.
in writing. − the services sector accounts for more than 65% of eu gdp and is a dynamic, modern and future-oriented element of the european economy. various innovative ways of delivering services are constantly being developed. for all these reasons, a better functioning internal market for services is the cornerstone of a more competitive european economy as a whole. this resolution aims to confront member states with their responsibilities for the full and correct application of the services directive, in its letter and spirit. the economic crisis has made it even more urgent to act to unlock the full potential of the services sector for growth and jobs.
in writing. − the services sector in the european union is estimated at over 65% of eu gdp and is undoubtedly the future of the european economy. member states should have transposed directive 2006/123/ec on services by december 2009. however, 3 years later, implementation is far from satisfactory. this hinders member states from achieving optimal economic growth. member states must do everything possible to establish once and for all the functioning of the single market for businesses and consumers. i also voted in favour of the report on the internal market for services because it takes into account the measures needed to promote better enforcement and to strengthen transparency and accountability. all stakeholders, including national parliaments, the business community and the social partners need to join forces and work together to ensure that the services directive is properly applied. member states must adopt and implement long-term growth policies. the time has come for a new impetus and the removal of the remaining obstacles to the full implementation of the services directive. the european union and its member states need growth, and the services directive is one way to achieve this.
blue-card question. – mr farage, i come from romania and maybe live like a pig as you describe the romanians living, but in this room, in this house, i think that we all have the same rights. i would therefore ask you whether, when you said that this is an opportunity for assad to demonstrate whether he is a good man or a bad man, you think that the 100 000 people killed in syria proves him to be a good man? i do not. do you?
in writing. – syria is not only a real tragedy, with tens of thousands killed and millions of displaced people, but also an exercise in the limits of realpolitik itself. indeed, looked at from every angle, the situation in syria looks bad; no conceivable option seems to be working: the hatred against assad, the infighting within the opposition, russia’s intransigence, the lack of western unity, the ghost of iraq, all combine to create this impossible situation. however, due to its high negative potential, the crisis cannot be left to continue much longer. of course, there is no military solution. but the use of the military instrument is only meant to prepare the ground for a political solution. this is best illustrated by the slightly positive perspective of the latest proposal to the syrian authorities to place their chemical weapons under international control. if it was not backed by the potential us strike, i wonder if (1) russia would have come up with it in the first place and (2) the syrian authorities would have indicated possible acceptance. it is not much, but it is something and, therefore, it should be pursued accordingly.
since the beginning of the arab spring in 2011, this is the seventh debate we've had in this room on the situation in egypt, and in fact, it's the fourth since the beginning of this year. so, in that way, we say that the trajectory that egypt is following is deeply worrying. as is well known, the events of 3 july, which led to the overthrow of president morsi, were followed by the repression of pro-morsi protesters, their violent response, including violence against some minorities of particular interest to us. i am thinking, first of all, of the coptic minority. political violence has become, moreover, the daily reality of egyptians and this is intolerable. equally intolerable are human rights violations, whether they are assassinations by law enforcement, the use of torture or simply the violation of freedom of expression and assembly. the scale of these acts requires their urgent investigation in the context of an impartial and independent inquiry. equally urgent is the political process, because egypt is embarking on a second transition, full of obstacles, and an inclusive political dialogue is needed.
mr president, when the situation in egypt led towards a change of the mubarak regime, based on our romanian experience i said that that was only the beginning. victories could have been only partial; ups and downs were inevitable. consequently, i was asking: what if the armed forces could not deliver what the ordinary egyptians wanted when they got into the streets? now this has happened – only this time it was not the armed forces but the muslim brotherhood, which won the elections. they could not deliver, getting again the people into the streets en masse and obliging the armed forces to remove the president and the government. the west was again confronted with a hard choice: either to protest strongly against the high cost of violence or to tacitly recognise what the majority of egyptians wanted and egypt’s importance in maintaining peace in the middle east. apparently the latter prevailed, and – thanks to the developments in syria – egypt seems placed somehow on the back burner. however, given the importance of egypt, the eu should continue to help the egyptian people to stabilise their country and finally start anew.
on behalf of the alde group. i join those who congratulate the two ladies, mrs gomes and mrs giannakou, on two ambitious reports and, above all, on the ambition supported by the amendments of our colleagues who all converge on the same approach. there is no doubt that the two reports speak of the real need for reform at european political level for common defence, but we have been talking about this for 10 years. we have a successful maritime acquis, of course: atalanta can be considered, and is, a success story, but we must also look at what divides us and what constitutes the failure of our common defence policy. we have military groups that are not working, we are duplicating projects, the costs are high, more and more at the level of the member states the defence capacity through budgets is reduced, all because there, in fact, is the decision, and not at the level of parliament. and that makes us reluctant to talk about the success of a common defence policy. as mrs giannakou rightly said, the european union reacts more than it acts, and i think that together with those who want 'more europe', it is time to act and put pressure where it counts: in national parliaments, in the member states, so that the common defence policy becomes a reality. i believe that we can use these two reports in dialogue with national parliaments and raise awareness before the december council, which can bring more coherence to the common defence policy. i am sure that, beyond national pride, there should be, or it is time for there to be, a european pride. it is not very important how many flags or what flags will be on board our action ships, it is very important that there is action, that it is effective and coherent, because in my view european cohesion also means a policy of cohesion in the field of security. if we want europe, this is where we have to go, and i think this crisis is driving us, pushing us to do this as quickly as possible. of course, risks are everywhere, our vulnerabilities are well known, but we continue to ignore them, favouring a national, sometimes nationalist, approach to security policy, which does not benefit the european union either in credibility or external visibility. if we are to be a true partner in global security, then we will have to act together.
mr president, i would like to start by saying that i cannot share either the praise of mr bütikofer for the report of ms gomes or the optimism of mr van orden with respect to european defence. i will now talk about what i prepared about the report by ms giannakou. i will start by saying that a true arc of crisis has enveloped europe from south and east, once again bringing defence to our attention – except that, instead of increasing our defensive effort, we have already reduced it considerably. in comparison with the 1929-1933 world crisis, when defence spending and re-arming proved to be an efficient way of getting us out of that crisis (with the cost of throwing us all into the most destructive world war six years later), today we respond by slashing our defence budgets. true, even if today we do not envisage a new world war, the consequences of our current reductions might jeopardise our future all the same, because europe would be less and less capable of defending itself in the face of new and old challenges coming closer and closer to our borders. the report by ms giannakou has taken onboard all the major suggestions advanced by our group, a fact for which i hereby thank the rapporteur, ms giannakou, who approached her collaboration with the shadow rapporteurs in a very businesslike manner. among the important proposals advanced by the rapporteur are the request for a significant increase in the shared costs for rapid reaction operations; the invitation to the council to revisit and streamline the decision-making procedures to make the eu’s rapid reaction a reality; the creation of a fully-fledged eu operational headquarters within the european external action service, possibly through permanent structural cooperation; and the evaluation of the possibility that costs not related to the military operations per se be charged to the eu budget. in conclusion, we appreciate very much both the report and its proposals and the work done in preparing it, for which ms giannakou deserves to be congratulated and consider that, by adopting it tomorrow, parliament would significantly contribute to the december rio council devoted to defence and security.
if you ask european citizens what they think, a majority of them think that a common defence and security policy is needed. on the other hand, as we know, the treaties tell us that the union must work towards the progressive establishment of a common defence policy framework. however, recent history, and i am thinking here of the intervention in libya, the intervention in mali, shows us that we are far from a genuine common security and defence policy. the union has insufficient capacity to respond to international crises, national defence budgets are also continuously declining. the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sector is also not to be ignored. what can we do in these conditions? i think the budgetary problems can be countered by better coordination. i think they can come together and share capabilities. i believe that by developing a european defence equipment market, new ways of financing can be found at european level. the truth is that the main obstacle to a common security and defence policy is the political will of national leaders. we therefore encourage the european defence council of december 2013 to promote cooperation between member states, including, if not otherwise possible, between some of the member states. the meeting of this council is already an important signal - let's hope the results will be adequate.
i'm glad we're addressing this today. i have tabled several amendments in the debate in committee and i must stress here, as i have done on other occasions, that for the epp group, the most important thing when it comes to belarus is the general human rights situation - it is a disastrous situation, as we know. i am not going to remind you that belarus remains the only country in europe that still uses the death penalty! in fact, new sentences were announced this year. unfortunately, the belarusian authorities have remained indifferent to all the signals from the international community, and this has certainly only further deteriorated relations between the union and belarus, leading to the country's virtual self-isolation. the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november will not be able to improve the union's relations with belarus. it is, unfortunately, a certainty. but we must do everything possible, i think, so that this situation actually affects only the political leaders, and not the society in belarus. we must support civil society, ordinary citizens, by establishing contacts and by offering them the opportunity to travel, why not, to work in europe, in order to encourage a process of europeanisation from the bottom up, because it is clear that this cannot be done from the top down.
madam president, the fact that russia wants to attract its neighbours to come under its leadership in the eurasian union is understandable. the eu also likes to have its neighbours together with it. the real question is why, after experiencing the european union eastern partnership, countries like armenia opt for the eurasian union. it is not only to do with pressure from the others. it is to do with our own weaknesses. the georgian prime minister apparently considered the same option. belarus was lost because of the dogmatic shortcomings of some of our policies. azerbaijan will be lost because the eu is not able to see the strategic importance of that country, which is not looking for money but for a serious political partnership and its territorial integrity. when russia puts pressure on ukraine for not signing the association agreement with us, it knows something that we apparently do not know, namely that ukraine is strategically crucial and that values follow the settlement of the geostrategic gain, not the other way round. how long do we think that rejecting and harassing the ukraine, ukraine could remain neutral? thus we put in jeopardy both the promotion of our values and the geopolitical security of our citizens. it is useless to blame russia. instead we must be more robust and pragmatic in our policy. the european union summit in vilnius will offer an opportunity which should not be missed. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that i was quite clear. i think that all our history shows that we have to be pragmatic and bear in mind the need to win the strategic game and this will bring us the opportunities to move ahead with our values. if we are always raising all kinds of conditionalities instead of trying to bring these countries together in our camp, certainly the other pressures will be fruitful. this is our fault and we have to avoid it in the future. we certainly could criticise russia, but i believe we should also look in our own yard to see our own mistakes.
madam president, recent developments in the east are not accidental. they are russian foreign policy. the break-up of the eastern partnership is a russian project. the reabsorption of our eastern partners is a russian project. the question is, why? why is russia so confident? unfortunately, we created opportunities for russia by lacking a resolute enough eastern approach. in the east, the eu has not achieved progress in solving the frozen conflicts. in the middle east, the eu and us management of the crisis has been disastrous so far. russia’s assertiveness was encouraged by our weak stance. russia can cynically ban moldovan wine and threaten to let moldovans freeze this winter, knowing it has to fear no consequences. our eastern partners are at a crossroads: moldova, ukraine, armenia are openly blackmailed. this is russia’s offer. our offer is free choice, but our partners need tangible political support. increased market access and political dialogue are good, but not enough. the eu should offer its eastern partners more than a hypothetical chance of joining the eu.
madam president, as the summit in vilnius approaches, with the expected signing-in of some important former soviet republics, moscow is intensifying its efforts to prevent another geostrategic loss. lately, the overt and covert pressure on the potential signatories has thus intensified considerably, demonstrating that moscow’s carrot is also a stick, albeit it not such a big one. armenia having already given in, moldova was immediately visited by russian deputy prime minister dmitry rogozin, a well-known figure in brussels, and by the russian patriarch kirill. the signal, direct and rather brutal from the former, convoluted from the latter, was the same: moldova should plan its future path very carefully by joining the other slavic orthodox peoples. the russian authorities immediately gave substance to such suggestions – first questioning the quality of moldovan wines and then embargoing them altogether. naturally, neither of our prospective signatories should bow to this pressure, now we have come so far. moreover, the eu should evaluate the adoption of concrete measures to alleviate the impact of such abrupt retaliatory moves against these countries.
in writing. the russian federation threatens the republic of moldova to prevent the initialling of the association agreement with the european union and by implication to stop its european path. on 10 september, the russian federation banned imports of moldovan wine on health grounds. the russian health service is elevated to the rank of minister of war to punish countries in the near neighborhood that do not respond to russian orders. the deputy prime minister of the russian federation, visiting chisinau on september 2, stated that the republic of moldova will lose the transnistrian region if it initiates the association agreement. he also threatened the moldovans that they would freeze in winter, so the russian federation is blackmailing the republic of moldova by blocking the gas supply. in addition, there are other threats to make formalities more difficult for moldovan citizens working in the russian federation. the chisinau government responded to this rhetoric with calm and courage. the efforts made to conclude the negotiations in record time and to initial the association agreement show the extraordinary will to integrate the european project. the signing of the association agreement must follow its initial signature as soon as possible, because the european union will not accept being blackmailed by the russian federation.
in writing. after ukraine and armenia, moldova becomes the third country against which russia is pressuring. moscow does not welcome the eastern partnership and the conclusion of association agreements between the european union and the countries of the queens. this is not the first time that russia has used the weapon of banning wine imports from moldova in order to influence the politics of this country. the european union has a responsibility to protect its partners and moldova must not give in to these pressures, which are illegal in view of russia's membership of the wto. finally, i would point out that the association agreements are not intended to undermine trade between the eastern partnership countries and russia, but that, on the contrary, they will boost the competitiveness and performance of the countries in the area and improve their trade with all partners.
it is quite exceptional to hear speakers from all political groups speaking in superlative under the dome of a parliament and considering the work of a european institution, the ombudsman, as exceptional. it is, in fact, the tribute which parliament pays to mr nikiforos diamandouros after 10 years of service. dear friend nikiforos, thank you for your availability and contribution to promoting a culture of good administration and transparency within the european union. i want to express my gratitude for the integrity, rigor and distinction with which you have acted over these 10 years. one of the successful cases in 2012, as mentioned, was that of vienna international airport. a flawless cooperation, the outcome of which was unanimous, allowed the committee on petitions and the european commission to identify solutions for the future. this report also gave us the opportunity to contribute to the amendment of the draft directive on environmental impact so that in the future it will be impossible to repeat this. i can only welcome the zanoni report, which is due to be adopted at the first part-session in october and which is also inspired by the work of the committee on petitions and the impeccable cooperation between us and the ombudsman. i would add that 52.7% of the inquiries opened by the european ombudsman in 2012 were against the european commission and i urge the european commission to find that there is room for good administration at this level as well. i conclude by saying that the standards you set are today the standards from which the new ombudsman starts and i am confident that cooperation with ms o'reilly will be raised to the same level. once again, i wish you much success, much health and to see you well in all circumstances.
i voted for this resolution. the european union currently spends about 10 billion euros a year in subsidies to promote biofuel production. this cost is not justified. on the one hand, burning biofuels increases carbon emissions and contributes to global warming, on the other hand, biofuel subsidies particularly favour large farms operating on a monoculture basis. i think the targets for farm subsidies should be small farmers. we supported the proposal to reduce the target from 10% to 5.5% (well, the 6% compromise was voted on) because it is also in romania's interest. in the absence of sufficiently developed production capacity, romania would have had to import biofuels to meet the target of strategy 2020. but of course, biofuel producers need to develop the ability to process waste and non-food woody plants.
the economic losses caused by the disengagement of young people from the labour market were estimated in 2011 at eur 153 billion, or around 1,2% of the union's gdp. moreover, in 2011, some 7.5 million young people, or about 13% of all 15-24 year olds, were not in employment, education or training. the union is making structural funds available to remedy this serious problem, but these funds have only been partially used. for example, in 2012, €30 billion from the european social fund remained unused. i don't want to comment. this has to change.
although young people represent 13% of the union's labour force, it is estimated that in 2012 they accounted for 42% of temporary work contracts and 32% of part-time contracts. unfortunately, the attitude of many employers is to disregard those without work experience and to dismiss, especially those with temporary or part-time contracts, so that young people are by default the most disadvantaged. in addition, 2 million jobs have been left unfilled in the union because of the education system, which is not in line with the market requirements, the requirements of today and tomorrow. we produce educated young people who are not prepared for a market where there are jobs, but for a market where there may not be jobs. i hope that the resolution that we're voting on now will lead to change, because young people are the priority of any society that wants to progress.
the services sector in the union is estimated at over 65% of the union's gdp and is undoubtedly the future of the european economy. member states should have transposed directive 2006/123 on services by december 2009. however, after 3 years, the implementation was not completed. this clearly hinders member states from achieving optimal economic growth. the remaining obstacles to the implementation of the services directive must therefore be removed, otherwise we cannot grow economically. that is the first need we have: economic growth, and the services directive is, i repeat, a way of achieving that growth.
the visa waiver is granted to the holder of a visa who is a national of a member state of the european union. we know that third countries currently maintain visa requirements for some member states. it is very important that the commission takes this issue seriously and reintroduces the visa waiver as stated in the statement adopted by the ep in march this year... mr. president, i can't talk to you because my colleague is on the phone all the time and he's disturbing me. please, stop it. i'll try to keep going. other the commission should take this issue seriously and, in line with the statement adopted by the ep in march this year, restore the visa facilitation system if no changes are made on the basis of reciprocity. at the same time, we need to examine what led to the reintroduction of the visa requirement in some member states and what europe can do to prevent its citizens from seeking international protection in third countries. this is not a problem of a few member states alone, but a european problem and the common visa policy is a very good example of this.
in writing. − changing the reciprocity mechanism in relation to the common visa policy has emerged as an important need in recent years, requiring a third country benefiting from visa exemption to adopt the same measure in favour of eu citizens. the current situation with regard to the visa requirements for canadian and us citizens undermines the eu's common visa policy, which should be based on reciprocity and promote freedom of movement for all eu citizens. the reciprocity clause is a step forward and so is the promise to act effectively against certain third countries which continue to ignore the basic principle of equal treatment between member states.
in writing. − i believe that this is a major improvement to the eu's visa policy in that the reciprocity rule will be truly enforceable, thus creating de facto solidarity both within the union and in relations with its partners. more than 100 million citizens in 6 member states could benefit directly and immediately from the new visa rules. it is a necessary step towards the end of the us and canadian visa regime for our fellow citizens from romania, bulgaria, the czech republic, poland, cyprus and croatia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this text because it is my responsibility to fight for the visa rights of my fellow eu citizens. the proposed text reinforces the ‘reciprocity mechanismʼ, a political mechanism which would be activated as an act of solidarity when a third country whose nationals do not need a visa to come to the eu applies or maintains a visa requirement for nationals of one or more eu member states. secondly, it creates a suspension mechanism which would temporarily suspend the visa waiver for a third country in the event of an emergency situation related to its migratory situation. this mechanism will put an end to the unacceptable situation concerning citizens from six member states: romania, bulgaria, poland, the czech republic, cyprus and croatia. this text will improve the euʼs visa policy because the reciprocity rule will be truly enforceable, creating solidarity both within the union and in its relations with its partners. over 100 million citizens from six member states would benefit directly from the new visa rules.
in writing. − in 2008, when the financial crisis spread across europe, there were 27 different systems of bank regulation in the european union, all based on national rules and national rescue mechanisms. although some form of coordination existed at eu level, it was concerned with relatively informal exchanges of information and cooperation procedures. this was not sufficient to react to the financial sector crisis felt in the union in recent years. initial steps have therefore been taken to address these issues both through the introduction of stricter rules for financial services and through the establishment of new financial supervisory agencies, including the european banking authority. the european banking authority was established in 2011 to help coordinate the activities of national regulators and ensure the consistent application of eu-wide rules. however, effective supervision of banks remained mainly the responsibility of the national regulatory authorities.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this text to establish a european banking supervisory authority in connection with the specific tasks of the european central bank relating to policies on the prudential supervision of credit institutions. this decision, which gives the ecb the power to supervise the banks of the eurozone and establishes a single supervisory mechanism, will have to be translated into reality as soon as possible in order to move towards the creation of a real banking union. while there is still a long way to go, this vote is a step in the direction of transparency in the european banking sector, which is a very good thing. it is, however, only a step towards holding european bankers fully accountable, to ensure that their speculative activities, which have contributed to the economic and social crisis we are currently experiencing, come to an end. i would also like to highlight the role of the socialist and democrat group in the european parliament in ensuring that any transfer of power from the national to the european level will have to be accompanied by greater democratic oversight by the european parliament.
in writing. - today we have approved, despite a difficult path, the report calling for the european central bank to be given specific tasks in relation to policies on the prudential supervision of credit institutions. the ecb's policy, especially in recent times, has been subject to the magnifying glass of public opinion, politicians and financial operators. this means that its role is becoming increasingly decisive and that the decisions it takes are decisive, especially those concerning monetary policy. in a context of a feared credit crunch and difficulties in accessing credit for public authorities, businesses and public administrations, the ecb's new specific tasks in the field of prudential supervision should be welcomed as a positive sign of a union that wants to move at a single speed and not, instead, as an additional 'cap' that the ecb wants to place on the sovereignty of states. to give in to this interpretation would mean giving europe over to the anti-europeanists, and that is something we cannot afford.
in writing. − the evolution of the economic and financial crisis has brought the european banking system to the brink of collapse, which has undermined the integrity of the single currency and the single market, endangering the union's entire economic development. the rapid increase in the complexity of the activities carried out by credit institutions before the crisis led to a limitation of national control and the inability to have a comprehensive picture of the entire internal market in financial services. the fragmentation of financial markets placed a heavy burden on public finances during the crisis, which were already under pressure. all these problems could have been avoided, however, if there had been proper supervision. that is why, in the light of the european central bank's experience with financial problems, i believe that we urgently need new regulations to strengthen the capacity of the central bank to prevent and limit the risks specific to the activities of these institutions, thus protecting the stability of the european financial system.
in writing. − if we want the eu to meet its long-term renewable energy targets, we need to consider microgeneration. this contributes to increasing the total share of renewable energy in the eu energy mix and allows for efficient consumption of electricity close to the point where it is generated, thus also avoiding losses during transport. i would like to mention that the efficient use of microgeneration is influenced by several factors, such as: a functional european internal energy market; the technical development of microgeneration units; the realisation of an intelligent energy infrastructure, especially at the distribution level, and, not least, short, medium and long-term policies and effective support mechanisms to stimulate microgeneration at european, national and local level.
in writing. − access to enough energy for a decent standard of living is a fundamental right for all citizens and, as energy prices have risen significantly in recent years, i believe that the role of research and technology in improving efficiency and reducing the costs of microgeneration is essential.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because it recognises that linguistic diversity is an essential part of the european cultural heritage, and because it calls to be attentive to the discrimination of small and/or vulnerable languages. however, eu institutions should set an example in their call to preserve languages by ensuring that official eu languages can at least be used within its own premises. as an official eu language, maltese interpretation should be available, not only for plenary sessions, but also during committee meetings.
in writing. − the gender pay gap is still a persistent problem and currently stands at 16.2 % across the eu. the implementation of the principle of equal pay for the same work and for work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality, bearing in mind that the negative effects of the gender pay gap on women extend into their retirement age and women receive pensions which are, on average, 39 % lower than those of men. reducing gender inequalities by closing the gender pay gap will bring benefits not only for women but for society as a whole, and this should be seen as an investment. the commission should strongly support member states in reducing the gender pay gap by at least five percentage points annually with the aim of eliminating the gender pay gap by 2020. the commission should review directive 2006/54/ec on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation, at least in relation to some aspects of the gender pay gap issue: work evaluation and job classification, equality bodies and legal remedy, social dialogue, prevention of discrimination, gender mainstreaming, sanctions, streamlining of eu regulation and eu policy.
in writing. − slow progress in closing the gender pay gap has significant demographic, social, legal and economic consequences. therefore, i believe that reducing gender inequalities by eliminating unjustified pay gaps between women and men will benefit not only women but also society as a whole and should not be considered a cost but an investment.
in writing. − the digital economy currently has a high potential for job creation and growth, as evidenced by the fact that the digital economy's growth rate is seven times higher than that of the rest of the economy. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1308/2013. let us not forget that there are currently over four million workers in the information and communication technology (ict) sector in europe, a figure that is growing by 3% a year, and that by 2015, according to the european commission, between 700 000 and 1 million high-quality ict jobs will be unfilled despite the crisis. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital skills and digital literacy, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital literacy and digital literacy programmes are fully integrated into the union's policy on digital skills and digital literacy. i welcome the launch in march 2013 of the grand coalition for digital jobs. i hope that the european executive will make this coalition operational as soon as possible and replicate this initiative at member state level. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i believe that the digitisation of the public sector should be among the first future steps in the digital agenda, as, in addition to reducing the costs of public administrations and improving the efficiency of the services provided to citizens, the stimulating effect of the digital sector on all sectors of the economy would be very beneficial.
after the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union, the black sea has become increasingly important for the common security and defence policy. however, since the launch of the black sea synergy initiative, little progress has been made at european level on security in the black sea region. the russian fleet's positioning in crimea makes the black sea a potential conflict area. this was also seen in the 2008 russo-georgian war, in which the russian navy took several offensive actions. the russian federation has announced that it will add 15 new warships and submarines to the black sea by 2020. it will double its war capacity and pose a threat to the entire area.
in writing. − the importance of international maritime transport for the european union cannot be underestimated 90% of external trade and 40% of internal trade is by sea, with the community also being the most important international carrier. maritime space is one where the proliferation of asymmetric and unconventional threats has recently gained momentum and the union's interests require a sharp approach to this issue. i believe it is important that these realities, i.e. current trends, are reflected in european security strategies and policies.
the reduction in military budgets coincided with an increase in the number of crises in which the european union or its member states are called upon to intervene. but to be able to intervene where human rights are flagrantly violated, the union needs the capacity to act quickly. the union's tactical battle groups must be strengthened and joint exercises between member states must be intensified to reach the targeted mobilisation time of between 5 and 10 days. for example, the last joint exercises of the balkan tactical combat group, in which romania participates, took place in 2007, and the italian-romanian-turkish tactical combat group has no planned activities for the near future. that's why, i repeat, this has to change.
no improvement has taken place in the human rights situation in belarus. although 25 political prisoners were released in 2011 and 2012, they continue to be harassed and persecuted. eleven other political prisoners are still in custody. andrei haiducu was arrested in 2012 by this kgb in northern belarus and was held for 7 months for attempted espionage and then sentenced to 18 months in prison. all of this confirms the growing role of the kgb in belarus. therefore, the prohibition on issuing visas to belarusian officials to travel to the union should remain. the same applies to the freezing of assets of those involved in human rights violations.
in writing. − it is true that european economies and societies are facing major problems at the moment. the present difficulties should not, however, distract us from the issue of safety and health at work. both technological developments in recent years and economic imperatives make the protection of the health and safety of employees a priority objective. there are still many challenges and i believe that the first step required to protect european citizens is to develop a strategic framework in this area. the development of a european strategy on health and safety at work should take account in the first place of the objectives set at union level through the europe 2020 strategy, in particular those relating to the employment rate. at the same time, given that the community strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work has had a positive impact, it is important that efforts in this area be continued at union and member state level.
in writing. − technological progress, economic developments and the economic and social crisis have a great impact on the working environment and need rapid responses to provide a high level of health and safety at work. taking into account that the community strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work expired in 2012 and has not yet been followed up by any policy document at eu level, it is important that the commission adopts a new european strategy on health and safety at work. the commission should present the new european strategy on health and safety at work for the years between now and 2020 and it should be done before the end of 2013. the commission should ensure that initiatives concerning health and safety at work are developed in a manner consistent with public health policies which aim to prevent ill health and prolong a healthy working life. working conditions which have an adverse impact on health can have long-term effects and cause late occupational illnesses and health problems, even after more than 20 years of exposure, as in the case of asbestos. the surveillance of workersʼ health is a major tool in the efforts to prevent such problems.
in writing. − i believe that the economic crisis should not be used as an excuse to undermine occupational risk prevention policies.
in writing. − the creation of crossborder partnerships between different trade union and corporate actors is one of the instruments that offers more benefits to european economies and citizens. on the other hand, these agreements can stimulate the free movement of workers on the european market, effectively guaranteeing their rights. on the other hand, those rules are intended to help to create an effective legal framework which allows and encourages such interactions between the various national or transnational social actors, while maintaining the legal principle of the autonomy of the contracting parties. at the same time, building a framework for dialogue at european level contributes to the cohesion and competitiveness of european economies, which is of utmost importance as the effects of the economic crisis continue to be felt. the promotion of social dialogue at transnational level is one of the ways in which the union can make a decisive contribution to safeguarding the european social model.
in writing. − business strategies, including focusing on core activities, outsourcing, targeting low-wage countries, low-price policy and market access, are leading to major and rapid changes in the enterprises that manufacture products and provide services. this implies constant contract fluctuations, organisational changes and restructuring affecting employees. collective bargaining is a prerogative of trade unions at enterprise, national or european level and therefore the legitimacy of the parties is a key issue in any european initiative and the implementation of agreements must be carried out in accordance with existing national practices. the european social partners need to be given a greater role in european policy-making so that they can play a more important role in monitoring the progress made by member states. it is necessary for women to be represented and to participate in greater numbers in social dialogue and in collective bargaining structures and for the gender dimension to be mainstreamed in the relevant forums, in order to hear women's views and to mainstream gender issues in collective bargaining. social dialogue and collective bargaining have great potential as means of promoting gender equality in the workplace.
in writing. − as the eu recognises freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining as fundamental rights, i believe that the social partners need to exchange experience in the field of transnational enterprise agreements.
in writing. − every year, thousands of children, third country nationals or stateless persons under the age of 18, arrive on european territory alone or remain alone after their arrival. i therefore believe that there is an urgent need for the eu and the member states to respond coherently to the protection of unaccompanied minors, in full respect of their fundamental rights.
in writing. − with the outbreak of conflicts in different parts of the world, the number of unaccompanied minors has increased substantially, especially in countries that have direct contact with the routes by which they can reach europe. the eu has also been active in the fight against child trafficking, and has been active in the fight against child trafficking. age-determination methods are intrusive, having a traumatic effect on the child, especially on girls, with large margins of error. the commission's action plan 2010-2014 is therefore to be welcomed, but it must be based more on respect for the fundamental rights of children. they shall not be detained by any member state for seeking asylum. social and educational services must be appropriately trained to assess correctly the specific protection needs of each minor and to provide appropriate training.
in writing. − thousands of children, third country nationals or stateless persons under the age of 18, arrive alone in the european union, for a variety of reasons. i believe that the european union has not only the competence but also the obligation to protect the rights of children in such situations. the adoption of the action plan on unaccompanied minors 2010-2014 was a crucial milestone in addressing the issue of unaccompanied minors. however, as the period under review draws to a close, it should be noted that the measures provided for are insufficient and that the extension of the protection of unaccompanied minors must be matched by additional measures. the commission should also be able to provide information on the number of unaccompanied minors in the union, the number of unaccompanied minors in the union and the number of unaccompanied minors in the union. in the first case, the procedures must be adapted to each individual minor, taking into account the mental and physical characteristics of each. i believe that measures should be taken to reduce the number of unaccompanied minors by directly targeting their countries of origin. in most cases, the minors come from conflict zones or underdeveloped regions of the world. in this context, enhancing cooperation with states of origin should be a key concern of the european union when implementing the strategy on unaccompanied minors.
the economic and financial crisis has shaken europe to its foundations in recent years. but the crisis can also be an opportunity for growth and change, if there is a strategy to do so. one of the opportunities is the promotion of the creative and cultural sectors, which account for up to 4.5% of gdp and 8.5 million jobs in the european union. cultural sectors are an opportunity for people, for communities and for regions. the case of roşia montane, for example, in romania, which has generated widespread protests in recent days, has enormous significance for the country's heritage. the development of the area's heritage, by encouraging the cultural and creative sectors, can provide long-term jobs, far more than a cyanide exploitation that could destroy lives.
in writing. − the european cultural and creative sector is one of the spaces that is succeeding in making the motto of the european union unity in diversity into a reality. the european cultural area gives identity to the european political construction and ensures the necessary link between the states and societies of this great political community. as the economic crisis is affecting not only the income and living standards of european citizens, but also the very sense of identity and solidarity needed for the survival of the european project, effective support for this sector is needed. it is also important to bear in mind that the european creative and cultural sector is one of the most dynamic and competitive sectors of the european economy. this sector has continued to provide jobs, especially for young people, at a time when unemployment among this socio-demographic group has reached record levels. i support the report and its proposals, which provide solutions at a time of maximum difficulty for european states and societies.
in writing. − as the creative and cultural sectors (ccs), by promoting the spread of innovation within other sectors, play a major role in the economic and social development of the union, i believe that further studies and data collection on the economic and social role of ccs, in particular as a predominant element at the level of several economic sectors, should be developed.
in writing. − the european union enjoys a great social, creative and cultural diversity which can have a positive impact on the economy through growth and employment and the promotion of tourism. the potential of the cultural and creative sectors was seen during the crisis as the least affected sector. however, the industry is facing difficulties in attracting the capital needed to develop and implement new technologies, which will allow them to reduce costs and enter new markets. i therefore believe that, given the potential of the sector, it is necessary to encourage entrepreneurship by guaranteeing bank loans and by creating appropriate financing schemes for the sector. by creating a favourable fiscal environment, this sector can become the engine of growth in europe.
i join those who have stressed here that we must send a strong warning that the time of impunity is over for those who have been bleeding for so long in the congo and the great lakes region. it's no longer a civil war, but an inter-african conflict over control of resources in the area. the new wave of violence since july between m23 rebels and government troops has caused dozens of casualties and has accelerated the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of congo. over 6 million people are in need of urgent aid, but first of all, the fighting must stop. i therefore condemn the attacks on the civilian population and united nations personnel and call on neighbouring countries to refrain from any intervention that could lead to the total destabilisation of the region. i hope that the peace negotiations, which resumed last week in kampala, will lead to an agreement allowing humanitarian intervention in a country where the european union is the main donor, thanks to the additional mobilisation by the commission, and i welcome this effort.
in writing. despite a peace agreement and the formation of a transitional government in 2003, citizens who are settled in the east of the country continue to be terrorised by the armed forces or rebels. the war took the lives of an estimated three million people, either as a direct result of the fighting or because of disease and malnutrition. the war had a political and an economic side as well as a political side. the fighting was fueled by the country's mineral resources, which both sides exploited. the food security situation in the congo remains particularly acute, with approximately 70% of the population considered to be undernourished. furthermore, congo also has one of the highest infant mortality rates in the world, along with afghanistan, chad, guinea-bissau, mali, and sierra leone.
the author. - the subject we're discussing was settled last week, as is customary. anyway, the next item, bahrain, was not settled until monday, as you know. back when it was proposed to discuss the situation in the central african republic, there were colleagues who asked themselves: is it really an emergency? what's going on in there? why this case? well, what happened over the weekend makes it very clear that this is an emergency, because no less than 70 people have died in the west of this country in clashes between seleka rebels and supporters of former president bozizé. in fact, almost six months after the seleka rebels took power, the country is in chaos, the humanitarian situation is very worrying, the human rights situation is very worrying. in the discussion we had in the joint resolution negotiation, the statement made by valerie amos, the united nations assistant secretary-general for humanitarian affairs, the danger of this ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
indeed, the central african republic has been thrown into chaos, fuelling systematic and serious human rights violations, especially since the seleka coalition rebels seized power in the armed coup of 24 march. in total impunity, seleka gangs have committed murders, tortured former president's supporters, raped women, looted entire villages. half a century of instability, culminating in these atrocities, has pushed the entire population into the throes of famine, and the central african state has been pushed to the brink of disintegration, in a dismal re-editing of the somali scenario. that's why there's an urgent need for international military intervention to pacify the country and stop the jihadist advance from the north. in order to provide much-needed humanitarian support and to launch the effort to rebuild the central african state, the mandate and manpower of the multinational peacekeeping and assistance missions to the central african republic must be strengthened as a matter of priority.
i am very concerned about the state of war and impunity that continues to exist in the central african republic. people are dying, they're being tortured, and no one's responding. the international community is watching with impatience as a new crisis hits the country, already impoverished by other wars and internal conflicts. the population is traumatised, 240 000 refugees are in a vulnerable situation and over 100 000 children have been abused or are enrolled in armed groups. the international criminal court must begin its investigations in the central african republic. international standards apply to all countries, even those with limited economic resources. we are responsible to the people of the central african republic and we cannot wait to see who will win in the confrontations between the various armed groups to decide who we support.
we are concerned, indeed, about the policy of the authorities in manama towards their own citizens, two years after the demonstrations were brutally suppressed. there are still, unfortunately, restrictions on some essential freedoms, and that is why i join those who have called for a total end to the persecution and for the release of dissidents and illegally detained minors, the guarantee of the right to free movement and freedom of expression, and free access for inspection by the special rapporteur on torture and inhuman treatment. at the same time, however, we should note and encourage the reforms that are under way in the judiciary and the police. some of those who were unfairly fired were rehired, and a few days ago, bahrain was chosen to host the permanent seat of the arab court of human rights. it is an institution whose creation, under the aegis of the arab league, we welcome and whose work must be concretely supported by the european union.
mr president, the success of the eu carbon market depends not just on the level of its future ambitions but on solving its current problems. one of the key developments in the ets should have been the introduction of aviation emissions into the scheme, but the refusal of third countries to accept this has called the whole scheme into question. the commission now has an enormous responsibility at the upcoming international negotiations. if a deal can be reached on aviation, this would prove that an international framework can be created, through which joint ambition and shared efforts could lead to a successful and fair global policy. the aviation issue reflects the wider problem with our climate policy: so while our industries worry about unfair competition, our governments are worried about the effect of relocation on these industries.
(incomprehensible) ... to the increasingly repeated attempts to prevent romania and bulgaria from gaining their full rights as member states of the european union. romanian and bulgarian citizens are often treated as second-class citizens, including by the governments of some of the states that laid the foundations of the european project. in the uk and the netherlands, there is a fear that workers from these countries will invade the labour market, while in france the roma problem is becoming disproportionate and another pretext is being sought to delay a decision on schengen. but romania fulfils all the criteria for joining the schengen area, as president barroso has repeatedly stressed, as have the european parliament's resolutions. it is disappointing that the french government and others are competing with the far right in the run-up to parliamentary or national elections, and i hope that it will not become the norm to decree romanians and bulgarians as guilty of service in a european union that cannot find answers to the economic and social problems they face.
the carbonated products that can be found in schools, kiosks, playgrounds and are used to quench our thirst, as we hear from advertisements, not only have the opposite effect, causing dehydration in the body, but have been shown to lead to various harmful diseases, such as obesity, cellular damage, osteoporosis, tooth decay, liver disease and so on. in addition, a study called nomas clearly states that dietary carbohydrate juices increase the risk of stroke by up to 61 percent. i therefore ask the european commission to take urgent action to protect the health of minors in the european union by treating the marketing of carbonated juices in a similar way to cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, by carrying out concrete information campaigns and by detecting harmful substances in carbonated juices.
given the need to develop a new strategy and action plan on hiv, aids and other communicable diseases for the period 2014-2020, i thought i would bring to your attention today some key elements on this topic. first, access to quality medicines at affordable prices must be improved. the pharmaceutical industry plays a very important role here. it should facilitate access to low-cost treatment and enter into beneficial partnerships with both the private and public systems for drug availability research/development and technology transfer. pharmaceutical companies should be encouraged to get more involved in middle- and low-income countries and register their products in these needy countries. the european commission must delay the implementation of trade-related intellectual property rights in least developed countries in order not to impair people's access to health services and their access to appropriate treatment. the commission must continue to take into account in all its bilateral agreements the importance of ensuring access to public health services for the population.
in writing. i believe that the partnership between central and regional and local authorities is essential to set priorities and to ensure the co-financing needed to implement programmes supported by the structural funds. these partnerships will ensure an important role in achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, but the need for thematic focus on a small number of priorities must be taken into account. in addition, i support the need for flexibility which will enable member states and regions to respond most effectively to common objectives, while respecting territorial, economic and social characteristics as well as regional and local needs. it should be borne in mind that regional and local governments account for 60% of public investment and 38% of consolidated government expenditure on 'business' and this includes most of the expenditure that can influence regional development, such as trade and jobs, agriculture, transport or research and development.
in writing. an ambitious health promotion policy also requires smart regulation of tobacco products. for this reason, i welcome the commission's proposal, which contains many elements that will make tobacco products less attractive, especially to young people. i think, however, that a degree of proportionality must be maintained in the sense that we cannot go too far with the prohibitions. as long as the sale of cigarettes remains legal, we must recognize that there is an industry that we cannot stop from operating. i therefore sympathize with the introduction of health warnings on 75 or 65% of the surface of the package, but i do not think that the introduction of standard packaging is appropriate. i would also like to make a comment on electronic cigarettes. it is well known that they are less harmful than regular cigarettes and can help smokers to quit. however, since they are not completely harmless, it is illogical to classify them as drugs. this would mean that smokers would have less access to a less harmful product than cigarettes, which are widely available. i think it is more balanced that they are considered to be tobacco products and that they carry the appropriate health warnings.
commissioner, i want to thank you for your intervention. this report incorporated a number of important proposals put forward by my committee, the peti committee. there are a number of important improvements; the main objective is better implementation of the directive at member state level and procedural simplification, two elements that emerge from the experience of 25 years of implementation. the amendments i would like to mention here and which i will be voting on with enthusiasm tomorrow are to integrate crossborder and cumulative effects into environmental assessments, to ensure that they are carried out by independent experts, to remove the suspicion of conflicts of interest, to ensure effective public participation, and this must be guaranteed and documented in reports. clear rules are established to avoid conflicts of interest between investors and the company. the amendment introduces unconventional hydrocarbons, including shale gas, from the exploration, development and production phase in annex i, as requested by parliament in its 2012 resolution. i welcomed that resolution then, i welcome it now and you have my full support. a final very important element in an issue that concerns my country, it is the case of rosia montana, and i welcome the final amendment... (the speaker was interrupted by the president).
i voted for this report because it is very important in the fight against corruption. the report draws attention to the effects of corruption on people, on budgets. according to the world bank, corruption accounts for 5 percent of global gross domestic product and more than $1 trillion is paid in bribes each year. corruption adds 10 percent to the total cost of doing business and 25 percent to the cost of government procurement in developing countries. corruption, even at the highest levels, affects everyone because it reduces the amount of money that needs to reach people. with that money, we could build schools, hospitals, roads, raise wages or pensions. so everyone needs to understand that even those who are not directly involved in corruption are affected by the material costs of corruption.
in writing. - the problem of corruption does not only bring to the fore the economic impact of illicit activities. corruption raises numerous questions about the institutional capacity of developing countries and societies. the scale of the phenomenon also allows for the maintenance of various stereotypes and the practice of a widespread system of discrimination, significantly limiting the possibility of sustainable development. we can also say that, at institutional level, the european union has both the capacity and the know-how to drive political and social transformation in these countries. in encouraging the transition to democracy and to market economies in the former communist states, the union has demonstrated its ability to steer and accelerate the pace of change towards good governance. i believe that in these circumstances respect for transparency must become an essential principle of the european union's policies, both internally and in its external policy, and that the phenomenon of corruption must be treated with the same intransigence.
in writing. − according to the world bank, corruption accounts for 5% of global gdp (usd 2.6 trillion), and over usd 1 trillion is offered as bribes each year. corruption accounts for 10% of the total cost of doing business worldwide and 25% of the cost of public procurement in developing countries. the eu can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption if it properly tackles organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own territory. i hope that the 'eu anti-corruption report' to be presented by the commission will identify areas vulnerable to corruption in the member states and help to step up anti-corruption efforts by facilitating the exchange of good practices.
in writing. − the future of the european union, in a global context, offers both the prospect of opportunities that we must seize and a perhaps unprecedented set of challenges that we must recognise in advance in order to be able to pursue our policy of economic consolidation and development. in this last aspect of the obstacles we will face, the ability to identify and study trends developing worldwide is extremely important in order to be able to develop forecasts that help us achieve the major objectives of the european union. in a world of constant change, access to information remains essential. the european union cannot be content with being a mere pawn on the world chessboard, but must play an important political, economic and decision-making role. this is why it is important to anticipate all those global trends, the movements of the other actors, which will support the decision-makers at european level. i think it is extremely opportune to support the espas effort and even to strengthen this mechanism for interinstitutional information exchange in the period ahead.
in writing. − the european union is facing a period of rapid transition and transformation, particularly in terms of power, demography, climate, urbanisation and technology. the coming years will be characterised by increasing complexity and uncertainty, the multipolar nature of a more globalised world, a multi-level nature of governance and more actors interacting in policy and law-making, all of which contribute to a new global context that will present greater challenges. this new global context will evolve with a higher level of uncertainty than usual. following global trends will be a fundamental aspect of europe's ability to prepare for and respond to future challenges. it is therefore increasingly important for policy-makers to invest in monitoring, studying and analysing important trends and to engage in forward-looking policy analysis, while seeking solutions to new and complex challenges.
in writing. − the harmonious development of all regions that the european union wants is closely linked to the existence of efficient administrative structures, which can effectively implement the different european policies and properly manage eu funds on the basis of well-founded and forward-looking strategies, but which must also take into account the specificities of the regions. however, i believe that improving the administrative capacity of regions and local government structures should not lead to the creation of new mechanisms or institutions, but should make more efficient use of existing administrative processes, and e-government can play a fundamental role in capacity building, administrative modernisation and better horizontal and vertical coordination between different bodies at national and european level.
in writing. − the effects of the economic crisis include the intensification of conflicts between employees and employers, as well as the denunciation of problems related to employment contracts. situations in which employees in the shipping or road transport sector have sought to take their employer to court have become increasingly common. many of them were caught in a legal deadlock, in that they were from an eu country, were based or working in another country and their employer was from a third member state. although the brussels i regulation has brought significant improvements in the rules governing jurisdiction, both civil and commercial, practice shows that both in trade union action and in individual contracts of employment, various disputes continue to arise in obscure legal contexts that do not allow them to be clarified in the shortest possible time. i welcome and support the rapporteur's proposals and i believe, for my part, that these amendments are intended to protect employees, collectively and individually!
in writing. − labour law is an area in which the european union exercises only a relatively minor influence. different member states have set the balance between workers' rights, trade union activity and the freedom to conduct business in different ways. for the free movement of workers and capital, the european union has developed rules which govern, in crossborder situations, which member state has jurisdiction to settle disputes, including in the field of labour law. labour law is a particularly sensitive area and the specific rules in the brussels i regulation on individual employment contracts reflect this.
in writing. − in december 2012, the reformed brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was signed. it is important to ensure, as far as possible, the jurisdiction of a member state in disputes to which its own labour law applies. as far as possible, jurisdiction and the applicable law should belong to the same state. the rules on jurisdiction in disputes relating to employment relations must be aligned with the rules in force on the applicable law. the court of the member state in which the trade union action is being or is to be brought should therefore have jurisdiction to rule on disputes relating thereto. it is essential that there is an exclusive forum for disputes concerning trade union actions, in accordance with the rome ii regulation, located where the trade union action is or has been brought. in cases where an employee is suing the employer, the safety clause that applies when there is no regular place of work should be reworded to refer to the place of work from which the employee receives or has received daily instructions and not to the place of employment of the company.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to improve private international law by establishing rules of jurisdiction applicable in the field of employment. the report proposes to make important amendments to the 'brussels i' regulation on jurisdiction in the field of labour law. it shall establish a court for disputes concerning the class action, namely that of the place where the class action is to be or has been brought. in addition, when the worker takes legal action against the employer, the withdrawal clause, when there is no habitual place of work, should be reworded to refer to the establishment which gives or has given the worker his daily instructions rather than to the place where he was employed. i welcome these amendments, which are intended to protect workers collectively and individually, who are usually the weakest party in an employment relationship, and to ensure legal consistency and avoid undermining national legal traditions in the field of labour law by ensuring, as far as possible, that jurisdiction and the applicable law overlap.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive is part of a wider framework of european legal measures set up to implement several rules of the maritime labour convention adopted by the ilo in 2006 in geneva. at present, 30 countries have ratified the convention, representing 59% of the world fleet tonnage, meeting the requirements for the entry into force of the convention, namely 30 countries representing over 33% of the world fleet tonnage. the convention covers essential aspects such as minimum requirements for seafarers to be able to work on board a ship, conditions of employment, accommodation, recreational facilities, food and catering, health protection, medical care, social services and insurance, and its compliance and implementation to ensure decent working and living conditions on board ships, and procedures for the implementation of these provisions. each member state shall require ships flying its flag to obtain and maintain at all times a maritime labour certificate attesting that the working and living conditions of seafarers on board have been inspected, including measures of continuing compliance to be included in the maritime labour declaration of compliance.
in writing. − i believe that each member state should set clear objectives and standards for the management of its inspection and certification systems, and appropriate general procedures for their evaluation, to the extent that those objectives and standards are met.
in writing. − the european parliament's proposal for a directive on tobacco products was mainly aimed at discouraging smoking among young people. statistics show that the incidence of smoking among young people is increasing, with 70 percent of smokers starting before the age of 18 and 94 percent before the age of 25. preventing smoking among young people must be a priority as smoking is the most important cause of premature death in the eu, accounting for almost 700 000 deaths a year. i voted along the lines of the socialist and democratic group, which supported the revision of the tobacco products directive, but on certain aspects i took account of the position of the romanian government in order to avoid that, in the current crisis period, romania should suffer job losses as well as significant losses to the state budget. i believe that we need a european union strategy to tackle smoking among young people in a comprehensive way, including, in addition to legislative measures, actions to address the multifactorial causes of young people starting and continuing to smoke. such an approach is likely to enhance and maximise the impact of legislative measures and produce lasting changes in the smoking mind-set and behaviour of young people.
in writing. all studies show that smoking remains the number one preventable cause of death in the european union, killing nearly 700 000 people a year. while it is a welcome acknowledgement that the measures taken over the past decade to combat smoking have borne fruit and have reduced the number of smokers, much remains to be done to prevent the scourge. that is why i voted in favour of this report. the main objective of the directive is to place a strict control on the use of tobacco products in order to make them less attractive to young people, while preserving jobs and income from the tobacco industry in this time of crisis. we have, for example, voted in favour of a measure to make tobacco warnings more visible: they will have to cover 65% of cigarette packs and will be printed on the top of the pack. i also welcome the continuation of e-cigarettes as a consumer product accessible to the public as this tool has been proven to be particularly effective in helping smokers to quit.
in writing. − the european union has established itself as one of the most important political forums in the world in terms of combating gender discrimination. but despite these efforts, we must admit that the gender issue is a much more nuanced and complex one, which requires the attention of national and european decision-makers. the persistence of gender discrimination, intolerance and the maintenance of double standards are unfortunately still commonplace both within and outside the european continent. in particular, it is necessary to adopt measures by which the union contributes to discouraging the practice of selecting children on the basis of sex. this is an unacceptable practice! the existing gender imbalances have reached a level in many countries and regions that calls into question both the effectiveness of anti-discrimination policies and the creation of a social context conducive to democratic development. the union's external action should be geared to the needs of women and girls, and should be based on the principles of non-discrimination and gender equality.
in writing. when the allied troops, liberating europe from nazi occupation, revealed to the world one of the most shameful stains on the face of humanity - the horrors of the holocaust - the civilized world considered such dark pages of history to be finally closed. but here we are in the 21st century, with 200 million newborn female children murdered for cultural, historical and economic reasons. that is an alarming statistic. these crimes have devastating implications, both demographically, economically and socially, but also morally and in the legitimate questions that future generations will ask us. i appeal to the authorities and civil society to eradicate the causes of these practices and to adopt measures to improve the role of women in the community. it is a scourge created by men, which only by men can be removed.
in writing. − i believe that concrete steps must be taken to eliminate genocide and i believe that legislation in this area must protect women's right to access legitimate sexual and reproductive health technologies and services. governments in countries affected by this problem must improve women's access to health care, education, credit and loans, property, economic opportunities, thereby eliminating the persistent barriers that discriminate against girls and women, thereby creating an obligation for all states and governments facing this crime to promote and protect human rights.
in writing. − killing people systematically and deliberately because of their gender is a severe violation of human rights that must be addressed without delay. around 200 million women are estimated to be ‘missing’ due to male/son preference and sex selection at birth according to recent research, 100 million more than in 1990. gendercide is a global phenomenon touching not only asia but also countries in europe, north america, latin america and africa. in china, 113 boys were born for every 100 girls in 2011 while the normal ratio is 106 males to 102 females. fighting such a global and complex phenomenon requires a full set of measures. we need better and more reliable data on sex ratios at birth, child mortality, and recognized sex-selective practices at micro, sub-national and national level. in addition, we need more efficient legislation and policy frameworks to address the root causes of gender inequalities and gendercide. i also call on the commission and the eu delegations worldwide to integrate gendercide into the political dialogue agenda with the relevant third countries.
in writing. − the economic crisis has not only affected the living standards of european citizens, but has also called into question one of the major objectives of the european union the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu. regional disparities have widened, while budget deficits, especially at local level, have increased significantly. at the same time, access to credit has become increasingly difficult for local authorities, and the impact of austerity policies has left little room for public investment. it is important that cohesion policy should once again become the union's investment instrument. this process can offer effective prospects for tackling the crisis, reducing imbalances and strengthening the european union's sustainable growth. i also believe that the development of the union, even in the face of economic upheaval, cannot take place without respecting the objectives and commitments undertaken by the member states and the european union in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the current economic context has placed significant constraints on the public finances of the member states. at the same time, regional and local authorities are increasingly facing particular problems in their ability to finance cost-effective investment. on the one hand, they face a sharp decline in their disposable income as central budgets reduce allocations and require local and regional authorities to contribute to austerity measures, and on the other they have to provide increasingly demanding social services as a result of the crisis, putting increased pressure on their disposable funds. in the light of the above, i believe it is important to put forward concrete proposals to allow for all the flexibility needed for national co-financing of eu development spending, while also taking into account the strict application of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. − in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, regional and local authorities are facing a sharp decline in their disposable income as central budgets reduce funding allocations and require local and regional authorities to contribute to austerity measures, and on the other hand they have to provide social services that are increasingly demanding as a result of the crisis, putting an increased pressure on their available funds. public expenditure implementing programmes co-financed by the structural and investment funds should be excluded from the definition of structural deficits in the stability and growth pact, as this expenditure is dedicated to supporting competitiveness, growth and job creation and in particular to job creation for young people. it is important to rebuild and improve financial capacity at regional level and to provide appropriate technical assistance, in particular in the implementation of complex and locally managed joint projects, in order to secure public investment for programmes and projects aimed at boosting sustainable growth, combating social exclusion and restoring social fabric by providing adequate social and health services and creating jobs, especially at regional and local level.
in writing. − i believe that it is beneficial to extend the use of financial instruments under cohesion policy to all thematic objectives and all european structural and investment funds, but that the eib and the commission should propose new measures to finance long-term investments by local and regional authorities, including through the attraction of private capital.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text which aims to draw attention to the effects of budgetary constraints on regional and local authorities in the context of eu structural funds expenditure in the member states. in the context of the current financial and economic crisis, local (regional and local) authorities are increasingly confronted with the financial constraints on member states and the difficulty of securing productive investment. on the one hand, they are seeing a sharp decline in their incomes as central governments reduce transfers and ask regional and local governments to contribute to austerity measures; on the other hand, they are increasingly required to provide, because of the crisis, essential social services which impose additional pressures on their public finances. in this particular context, it is essential to make concrete proposals to ensure the greatest possible flexibility in the national co-financing of the union's development expenditure. we must make sure that we suggest practical and viable ways of improving the financial capacity of local and regional authorities for productive investment for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − this report is a wake-up call to the difficulties local authorities are facing during the crisis. local and regional authorities are key players in local development in the european union. the actions of these authorities represent 60% of public investment and 38% of consolidated budget expenditure. reducing funding for local communities has a two-fold effect: on the one hand, savings are made during the crisis, and budget lines are cut, especially for public investment and renovations. austerity also affects the implementation of projects financed by the structural funds. local authorities no longer have the capacity to cover the co-financing needed to continue projects and are in long-term debt. where authorities have the capacity to borrow short-term, borrowing the banking system does not allow them to find low-interest loans. austerity is particularly affecting the poorest regions, which were already having difficulties absorbing european funds and implementing projects.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has significantly affected local and regional authorities, with local public budgets being directly targeted through drastic cuts. efforts to overcome the economic crisis must focus on investments in key areas for growth and job creation. at the same time, greater involvement of local and regional authorities in the planning of european union structural funds programmes is needed. the role of cohesion policy must remain decisive in reducing development inequalities. i therefore believe it is essential that local actors, even in times of crisis, have the financial resources to use the structural funds. i would like to raise the alarm about the need to strengthen administrative capacity, which is a key condition for reducing bureaucracy and making more efficient use of european funds. the development of the european union must be thought of from the bottom up, in order to ensure a fair economic balance so that no european region is economically discriminated against.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'budgetary constraints faced by regional and local authorities in spending eu structural funds in the member states' because one of the biggest problems facing local and regional authorities in this period is the major budget cuts in important areas and sectors. by enhancing financial capacity at local and regional level and providing appropriate technical assistance, we will secure public investment for programmes and projects that boost sustainable growth, combat social exclusion and create new jobs. member states should promote measures aimed at both strengthening the administrative capacity of regional and local authorities and reducing red tape, in order to boost their capacity to implement projects financed by european funds. i would like to express my opposition to the introduction of macroeconomic conditionality in the future cohesion policy, 2014-2020, as it would mean penalising, first of all, the beneficiaries and the regions already vulnerable to the crisis. any suspension of payments for purely economic reasons would have disproportionate effects in the member states, despite their full participation in efforts to balance public budgets.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution on a comprehensive union strategy for fisheries in the pacific region, as i believe it is in the european union's interest to develop relations with the pacific region and cooperate in order to achieve its development objectives, based on the premise of conserving fisheries resources, promoting sustainable fisheries development and encouraging transparency in fisheries management. such a strategy in the pacific region is of the utmost importance, given the fisheries relevance of this region and its importance for the union fleet and for the european union fisheries processing market and industry. the commission must ensure the coherence of all community policies concerning the pacific region, in particular fisheries, trade and development, and promote the eu's visibility in the western and central pacific in such a way as to maximise the benefits for both pacific states and eu member states.
in writing. − the mediterranean and black seas have specific oceanographic, fisheries, environmental and socio-economic characteristics that need to be taken into account in a sustainable resource management strategy. in this context, i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution which aims at more efficient and sustainable management of marine resources in the mediterranean and black seas by promoting cohesion and cooperation between the coastal member states involved. all coastal states need to step up their efforts to phase out overfishing in the mediterranean and black seas, as declining fish stocks increase the potential for conflict in these regions. the european union should provide appropriate guidance, coordination and support to the member states in this regard, with a view to ensuring the coherence of the common fisheries policy and the integrated maritime policy. given that most of the states in the black sea and the mediterranean are not eu member states and are therefore not obliged to comply with eu legislation, i believe that bilateral cooperation and international agreements play an important role in promoting consistent management of marine resources in these seas under fair competition conditions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to regulate practices and resolve conflicts concerning fisheries and territorial waters in the mediterranean and the black sea. the management of maritime and coastal areas is a complex issue involving the participation of different private and public authorities. it requires greater cohesion and political cooperation between the coastal states concerned. i share the concern expressed in the report about increased competition for dwindling marine stocks and resources, which is creating regional tensions and may lead to disputes between states over maritime zones. in this context, efforts at regional, national and european level to improve the regulation of access to resources must be intensified, and it must be ensured that all coastal states are urged to intensify their efforts to phase out overfishing. i share the call for the establishment of a strengthened system of monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activity in the two basins, with an integrated approach to improve the conservation of the ecosystem, in accordance with european and international law.
the difficulties encountered this time in the discharge of the council are regrettable. for several years now, we have been facing the same set of problems, whose resolution stage remains constant. it was not possible to establish an open dialogue between the council and the committee on budgetary control on a transparent manner of cooperation. every year we find ourselves in a similar situation where we have to react to the council's refusal to answer further questions from parliament. questions and requests for additional information or documents from parliament are a legitimate part of the discharge procedure. under the treaty, the european parliament, through its committee on budgetary control, has a specific and well-defined role in the discharge process, with responsibility for granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union. the council, by virtue of its status as a european institution, must be subject to this procedure in its entirety, since it is one of the beneficiaries of the european budget. i would reiterate that effective monitoring of the implementation of the budget depends on unconditional interinstitutional cooperation between parliament and the council. it is true that parliament has the right to refuse discharge, a right which it has applied to the council since 2009. however, there is a risk in repeatedly refusing to grant discharge where there are no direct results or repercussions. the absence of a concrete result following the decision to refuse to grant him management risks discrediting the procedure itself, with undesirable effects over time also on other union institutions or agencies.
public opinion and taxpayers have a right to know how public money is spent by the european institutions, including the european council and the council; they are not, nor should they be, an exception to this principle. their expenditure must be scrutinised by the european parliament, just as the european parliament scrutinises the expenditure and management of all the other european institutions. since 2007, the council has refused to cooperate with the european parliament on the discharge procedure. this situation is unacceptable and that is why, once again, and i agree with this, we are not giving the discharge to the council for 2011. the council constantly invokes a tacit agreement, the so-called gentlemen's agreement, which dates back to 1970. for god's sake, the world has changed, you can no longer invoke this agreement, it's time to show publicly what you do with the money and we do our job as the european parliament and check this.
madam president, the eu’s economic downturn is not just another unfortunate consequence of the financial crisis. the european union’s ability to compete in research is part of the problem. since 2009 the debate has focused on regaining lost competitiveness in business and labour terms. this message is right, but it is not enough. to my knowledge, the great economic powers of the world have achieved success by regarding research as a long-term investment with high returns. it does not make sense for the eu to try to prove them wrong. the eu needs to get its act together and support the completion of the european research area. thirteen years have passed since the project was launched: thirteen years of half measures and partial commitment. for a better evaluation please consult the statistics on the world ranking of research institutes: the eu does not appear very often in the top 50 positions. only cern makes the top five. the us and japan dominate. we have to understand that the future is built today and that research gives a cutting edge to those who do not hesitate to invest in it. we keep on generating debates on economic recovery but we have lost sight of the fundamental role of research. we will not be able to restart our economies counting on the available research. the european research community should become a functional reality that disseminates its achievements to the benefit of the eu.
it seems that you have a much more theoretical approach than universities have to research and development at european level. at the moment we are dealing with a rather unresolved situation as regards the stimulation of research in the european union. the vast majority of r&d funding in the 2007-2013 period was not allocated because of a lack of knowledge among those who are eligible and have the opportunity and ability to do r&d and innovation at european level. secondly, there is no concrete link between the education system or education systems in the eu member states and the labour market in this field at european level. we are dealing with an emigration of intelligent labour from the european union to the great research powers like america, japan, but more recently also to china, which we cannot stop. we're going to go very soon and buy the science generated by europeans in china back to europe, then we'll produce and we'll license the chinese products to the european level. of course, my question is very specific: commissioner, is the european commission planning to standardize national research programmes?
the european research area is one of the best examples of the significant added value of cooperation between member states. without joint action, it is virtually impossible to achieve the objectives. unfortunately, it is no longer news that europe is lagging behind in the global search competition. in other parts of the world, there is a much greater emphasis on research, and this points to dangerous trends in the medium and long term. i am convinced that eu action is needed alongside the efforts of the member states. i'm not going to list them, i'm just going to mention them, my colleagues have listed them, europe 2020, the pay gap between researchers, mobility, the problems of women, the problems of researchers in third countries, all of these things show, i would say this, especially to my eurosceptic colleagues, that today it is no longer possible to claim that education, research, even minority issues, human rights issues are only a matter for the member states. there are countries, my country, where the education law is not enforced by universities, just because of the anti-minority sentiment, and you can imagine the kind of research that goes on at that university. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. i can only agree with that, but it's not just eastern european countries that have a problem, that they spend more on the military and the secret service than on education and research.
in writing. the council of europe's istanbul convention is one of the most important european instruments for combating violence against women. the fact that we have a legal document that clearly shows the content of the concepts of 'violence against women', 'domestic violence' and 'gender violence' is important for all european states and makes it possible to increase the effectiveness of the fight against violence and discrimination. in these circumstances, i welcome the ratification of the document by an increasing number of states and call for its ratification by all the member states of the council of europe or of the european union. the entry into force of this comprehensive document, which criminalises acts of violence against women that are often not covered by different national laws, must be a political priority, especially as the fight against violence against women varies widely across the european continent.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, while negotiating a bilateral investment agreement with china, the european union will act for the first time under the lisbon treaty as the unique institutional negotiating partner, replacing the current reality of 28 individual partners for our chinese counterparts. our aim has to be an ambitious and balanced eu-china investment agreement. the epp is in favour of the inclusion of market access in the negotiations mandate, the elimination of as many tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade as possible, the reform of the chinese joint venture mechanism, better protection of intellectual property rights in china, enhanced transparency regarding governance rules for state-owned and private companies in china, a level playing field and fair competition between chinese state-owned enterprises and european private companies, and effective support for european smes which invest in china. regarding the well-known issue of the ‘cultural exception’, now might be just the right time to refine the traditional eu position by acknowledging that, besides defensive interests, the european union has also some offensive interests. i will give just one example: the app market, which did not even exist a decade ago, but which now supports 800 000 creative and high-tech jobs in the european union alone. finally, we believe that a clear timeframe for the negotiations should be established and that reasonable transitional periods should be considered for the entry into force of revisions to the new eu-china bilateral investment agreement.
china is one of the european union's most important trading partners. i therefore share the view of my colleagues that the current agreement, the first of its kind since direct investment became the exclusive competence of the union, is beneficial in ensuring better protection for european investors. the barriers to european firms investing in china must be removed in order to ensure fair competition. however, the possibility for an investor to sue the chinese state does not necessarily meet this desire. in many cases, multinational companies are afraid to take legal action against china, preferring to resolve disputes through dialogue. on the other hand, such a mechanism can work to the detriment of the member states of the european union, a relevant example being the complaint of the chinese insurer ping an against fortis bank. i therefore advocate maintaining an interstate dispute settlement mechanism within the framework of the bilateral agreement.
the european union attaches great importance to its relationship with the people's republic of china. the willingness and ability to invest on both sides has room for improvement. at the same time, i am convinced that our chinese partners will accept that the union is speaking out for the full respect of human rights everywhere in the world. and china is no exception. while we're here debating economic issues, minorities in tibet province are being shot at over a stupid law, because minorities are protesting against the mandatory display of the chinese flag in their homes. it would be good if we not only speak up on human rights issues, but set an example for china. there is a country in the union where minorities are forced to display the flag of the state, while their own symbols are punished.
mr president, commissioner, before starting my speech i would like to know if we can have your answer today. how much coordination and correlation will there be between the negotiations with china and other major similar, if not identical, negotiations like those with the united states and japan? i strongly encourage the commission to enter into serious negotiations with china, because the negotiations on investment can but be of interest to both parties. chinese investors currently have to deal with 26 different bilateral agreements, while eu investors are often confronted with barriers that make investing more difficult, if not risky. i strongly encourage the negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement because i believe that clear, transparent and reciprocal rules can help to boost investment. finally, the bilateral approach should not prevail over... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the eu is in a crisis of growth and competitiveness. the pace of job creation is slow. the union budget does not allow for the financing of all investment projects necessary for the construction of strategic european infrastructures. opening up the european capital market to chinese investment can solve all these problems. the application of the principle of reciprocity will create new opportunities for both european investors and european foreign policy. the competitiveness of european investors increases if the pressure of competition increases. this will lead to lower investment costs through increased supply. chinese investors usually bring in funding for the projects they're involved in. this means additional resources for investments that the eu cannot currently support. the increase in investment in the european market is likely to influence both the recovery of economic growth and the creation of new jobs. the delay in reaching a comprehensive agreement at european level is therefore critical. it also prevents chinese investment from being made in conditions of transparency and clearly regulated competition, and the conclusion of bilateral investment agreements between member states and china without prejudice to common interests at union level. we therefore call on the relevant european institutions to complete and implement the euro-chinese investment legal framework as a matter of urgency.
we have decided that we will strengthen our relationship with the asian continent over the next few years by negotiating and concluding ambitious trade agreements. many of taiwan's neighbours, such as korea, vietnam and thailand, now enjoy the prospect of a close partnership with the european union. in this context, we cannot isolate a territory and its citizens by denying them access to commercial and economic benefits and potential social or human rights advances. at the same time, the european union has to comply with the strict framework of international law, which has enabled taiwan to adopt a constructive policy that has led to the conclusion of 19 economic and trade agreements with the people's republic of china and 31 investment agreements with third countries, as well as to accession to the wto and the asia-pacific economic cooperation forum. i am therefore in favour of further developing eu-taiwan trade relations.
in writing. the situation in syria is dramatic for the civilian population and is creating major difficulties in the neighbouring states, mainly lebanon, jordan and turkey. the european union must prove its capacity to manage this humanitarian crisis. solidarity between member states must be demonstrated by concrete deeds and not just by declarations. romania has initiated aid actions and made a significant financial contribution to the international community's efforts to manage the humanitarian crisis generated by the situation in syria. in 2012, romania contributed a significant amount to the financing of measures to alleviate the humanitarian crisis in syria and continued to do so in 2013. so far, the situation has not required romania to take special measures on asylum seekers from syria, but romania will do so when necessary. i think this is an example that all member states, regardless of their financial strength or distance from the crisis area, should take up and follow in order to improve the situation of syrian refugees as quickly as possible until the conflict is over. a conflict that can only be ended by the efforts of the entire international community, in which we, the eu, should play a much more important role.
on behalf of the alde group. the agreement at first reading on the directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications is one of the most important achievements of the single market act. the european union needed this directive to stimulate occupational mobility. the negotiations have not always been easy, but i am glad that pragmatic solutions have finally been found, whether it be nurses, notaries and so on. i would like to thank, on behalf of the alde group, both mrs vergnaud for the energy and patience with which she conducted the negotiations and the other colleagues who worked on this dossier, in particular my colleague cristian buşoi, who participated in the negotiations on behalf of the alde group and who recently left the european parliament. in times of crisis, increased mobility is essential to rebalance the labour market. this directive contains a number of elements of modernisation of the system for the recognition of qualifications which meet this requirement and which the liberal group has supported from the outset. among these i would mention the creation of the european professional card, the clarification of the conditions for partial access to a profession, the recognition of professional experience acquired through traineeships in training programmes or mutual evaluation in regulated professions. i would like to emphasize that the modernization and simplification has been done with the guarantee of the quality of the services provided, without compromising the safety of consumers and patients. i hope that parliament will support the agreement and that the member states will transpose this directive as soon as possible, which contributes to the realisation of the fundamental right of european citizens to work in another member state.
in writing. as from 1 january 2014, no member state may maintain restrictions on the free movement of labour from romania and bulgaria. this will help to strengthen the competitive advantage that the single market has through the free movement of labour. but we do not want, under any circumstances, direct restrictions to be replaced by indirect obstacles such as the non-recognition of professional qualifications obtained in one member state by other member states. that is why i support this report, which, through its proposals to simplify the process of recognition of professional qualifications, will help to make better use of the advantages of the single market.
in writing. − the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment establishes the simple but fundamental principle of 'informed decision': before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to gather the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. in its 28 years of application, this legislation has been relatively successful in harmonising the principles of environmental impact assessment at union level. during this period, some shortcomings were identified which have given rise to a significant number of legal disputes at national level or before the court of justice of the european union. in line with the union's priorities, the proposal introduces biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters among the factors to be considered in environmental impact assessments. i consider that the decision to analyse projects in terms of cumulation with other projects or activities was necessary, as this will prevent the harmful practice of fragmenting works into batches in order to reduce the identified environmental impacts.
in writing. i voted in favour of referring the report on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private undertakings on the environment to the environment committee in order to further debate this important text. the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia) establishes the fundamental principle of informed decision: before authorising the implementation of a public or private project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are required by law to collect the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. on the basis of the precautionary principle, and as requested by parliament in its resolution of 21 november 2012 on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil shale extraction, it was decided today to take measures to ensure that exploration projects limited to hydraulic fracturing and extraction are systematically subject to an eia. the production thresholds provided for in the current directive do not in fact take account of the daily production levels of these gases and oils, so that projects in these areas are not subject to an eia.
in writing. − the proposed revision of directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment aims to introduce new environmental impact assessment factors for certain activities and to streamline procedures in this area. in this period of economic crisis we must not put additional and unfounded obstacles to industrial projects which are important sources of economic growth and job creation for europe. i therefore believe that introducing preliminary stages in the evaluation procedure will lead to a delay and administrative burden in the implementation of industrial activities. i also do not think that additional measures for shale gas exploration are necessary. the european commission has already taken a first initiative in this regard through the 'environmental, climate and energy assessment framework to enable safe and secure unconventional hydrocarbon extraction' work programme introduced in 2013, which aims to provide a risk management framework, address regulatory gaps and provide maximum clarity and predictability of the legal framework for both citizens and market operators. the content of the directive needs to be simplified to avoid prolonging the time and administrative procedures involved in the implementation of industrial projects.
in writing. − the modernisation of existing european rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for recreational and sporting vessels or training vessels, with or without crew, for use at sea or on inland waterways is beneficial as the number of such vessels has been steadily increasing at union level in recent years. i support the rapporteur's proposals on the basic requirements to be met by these vessels, namely the rules on stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, exhaust gas emissions and noise emissions, and the inclusion of the five-year deadline at the end of which eu member states must inform the european commission about the implementation of the provisions of the directive.
at present, minimum training conditions are harmonised at union level for only seven occupational qualifications: the architectural profession and six medical professions. according to a eurobarometer survey, 28% of union citizens are thinking and planning to work in other member states, but the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications are slow. therefore, simplified recognition of as many professions as possible is very important, which is essential to encourage the mobility of qualified professionals. the introduction of a european professional card will also speed up and make recognition procedures more transparent, mainly for those interested in temporary mobility, such as service providers. for those affected by unemployment - especially young people - occupational mobility is a necessity and member states must take this into account.
in writing. − i welcome the progress made in supporting occupational mobility by speeding up and streamlining the recognition of professional qualifications in the eu. the new rules will allow professionals to practise their professions in another eu member state, avoiding tedious and costly administrative procedures. the main innovation of the directive is the creation of a european professional qualification card which will allow doctors, pharmacists, architects and other trained citizens to benefit from faster and simpler procedures for the recognition of qualifications already acquired in their home country. i believe that the revision of this directive is a key step towards the creation of a genuine single labour market and is also essential for the reinvigoration of the eu single market.
in writing. − in the current economic context, professional mobility is a key element for competitiveness and employment and is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy and the single market act. however, professional mobility remains low, due to the lack of simple and clear rules on the recognition of professional qualifications, although a european legal framework has existed since the 1970s. the vast majority of requests made by citizens to the solvit assistance centres relate to difficulties in obtaining recognition of their qualifications in order to be able to practise their profession in another member state of the union. i believe that the fundamental right of free movement still needs to be upheld and this legislative proposal should contribute to this by simplifying procedures for citizens wishing to move, while ensuring a high level of quality and safety for consumers, patients, workers and all eu citizens and improving the relationship of trust between member states.
in writing. − we have been talking about people's mobility for a long time, but one of its components - occupational mobility - remains low, despite the existence of a european legal framework since the 1970s. the main difficulty is to obtain recognition of qualifications for those wishing to practise in another member state of the union. i therefore support the rapporteur's position on the commission's proposal for the creation of a professional card, which will exist alongside the classical system, is based on the imi network, a procedure which will simplify procedures for both professionals and competent authorities and guarantee a high level of security of the information transmitted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it represents a step forward for the functioning of the european union's single market. the european parliament has always been in favour of labour mobility with a view to creating a european labour market, and i therefore believe that recognition of professional qualifications will make it easier for people who wish to pursue a profession in another eu member state. today, 50% of young europeans say they would like to start or continue their professional career in another eu country. the revision of the european commission's directive will breathe new life into the european single market through increased exchange of services and practices. the major innovation in this report is the creation of a professional card, which will allow workers to benefit from faster and simpler recognition procedures. it is also a step forward for romanian workers who will be able to move more easily between member states thanks to a reduced bureaucracy. this report is a hope for european citizens, but also a tool in the fight against unemployment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which aims to approve the signing of an agreement between the european union and armenia on the issuing of visas. in accordance with the opinion of the european commission and the council, it appears that after several rounds of negotiations, armenia is now ready to conclude the visa liberalisation agreement. the easing of visa requirements can give a new impetus to cooperation, particularly as regards the mobility of citizens, since it will be facilitated. the new rules will make the procedures faster, cheaper (the fee for processing visa applications of armenian citizens will be eur 35) and less bureaucratic (the documents required to justify the purpose of the trip have been simplified for several categories of persons), and simplified conditions are also provided for the issuance of multiple-entry visas. the government of armenia has already abolished the visa requirement for citizens of the union with effect from 10 january 2013. the conclusion of the agreements on visa liberalisation and readmission is a major step forward in the mutual relations between armenia and the union, and i welcome it.
in writing. − the visa facilitation agreement with armenia authorises the issuance of short stay visas. this agreement will enter into force jointly with the readmission agreements aimed at facilitating the effective management of irregular migration. both these agreements are tangible products of the eastern partnership and illustrate the growing cooperation between the eu and armenia. however, armenia will not initial the association agreement with the eu due to russian pressure. that makes it all the more important to secure these agreements. the eu has already concluded nine other visa facilitation agreements with non-eu countries. the process for armenia has been under way since 2011, and it is time to conclude these negotiations for the mutual benefit of both parties.
in writing. − i would first like to stress that the act on which this list of health claims on foodstuffs is based, drawn up by the european commission, must be fair and unambiguous. in fact, it is undeniable that a daily intake of a certain amount of glycemic carbohydrates has a positive effect on the brain. but we're talking about a daily dose of 130 grams, and it's unlikely that a consumer, and especially a child, would make any precise calculations about how much they're consuming. therefore, i believe that such a health claim on food products can be misleading and can have the perverse effect of generating an increase in sugar consumption, which would increase the risk of disease. over time, parliament has advocated solutions to the problem of obesity, and the basic act itself is part of that logic. the commission therefore took a reasonable approach. to oppose this list would simply be to be inconsistent with the decisions we have made so far on nutrition and public health.
in writing. − i am a strong supporter of clear and accurate food labelling so that people can easily identify healthy products. it would be clearly unacceptable for the claim, ‘carbohydrates contribute to the maintenance of normal brain functionʼ to be used to market a bag of sweets as healthy food, so i fully support the restrictions on this claim and that is why i voted in favour of the commissionʼs proposal. defining the terms and conditions of use for health claims can be extremely complicated, as the long delay in producing the long-awaited ‘nutrient profilesʼ illustrates. i repeat my previous call for the commission to come forward with these profiles as soon as possible.
in writing. - i believe that this is a good time to conclude a trade agreement with the people's republic of china that reflects the realities of the moment and promotes the interests of both parties. the realities of the two sides' economies are vastly different. that's why we need to find the common denominator that allows us to move forward. to do this, the most important thing would be not to absolutize differences or divergent points of view. both eu countries and china need each other's investment, albeit for different reasons. unfortunately, they remain low, if we take into account the size of the two economies. chinese investment in eu countries in particular is extremely low, as china has a large trade surplus, including with the eu. that is why i believe that the parties must start by providing equal and non-discriminatory access to the markets for their firms. if we set realistic targets, then an agreement can be negotiated in a reasonable time and would be a good start for further developments, which would also address those sensitive issues that were discussed here.
in writing. − creating a better environment for eu investors in china and vice versa, aimed at improving market access, enabling increased levels of mutual capital flows and ensuring transparency in company governance will also benefit the expected increase in legal certainty for european smes to invest abroad. i support the rapporteur's proposal that the position of european smes should be taken into account during the negotiations (including by involving the new chinese sme centre, the sme ipr support service and the eu chamber of commerce in china) so that the agreement to be concluded will stimulate the internationalisation of smes seeking to access the other party's market.
in writing. − china is the european union's second largest trading partner after the united states, and the eu is china's main trading partner. at the same time, however, the eu-china investment ratio is imbalanced, with chinese investment in the eu being seven times lower than eu investment in china. at present, almost all eu member states have bilateral agreements with china. the eu-china bilateral investment agreement would help to improve the protection of european investment in china and chinese investment in the eu, remove trade barriers and seek to increase investment flows. unfortunately, we face many difficulties that hinder bilateral eu-china investment. first, both the diversity and the limitations of the 26 bilateral agreements in force create obstacles for chinese investors. on the other hand, poor implementation and lack of legal provisions on certain environmental standards and social and labour rights in china create uncertainty and contribute to the growing mistrust of european investors. the future implementation of the eu-china bilateral investment agreement is mainly conditional on mutual respect for copyright policy obligations, fair competition of soes and elimination of the negative effects of dumping policies.
in writing. − regulations on night flight times and pilot rest periods have a major impact on aviation safety and therefore on the lives of passengers, which requires caution and a serious analysis of all elements before they are adopted. the need to harmonise these rules in the eu has been expressed since 2008. the commission's draft regulation is therefore the result of discussions which have taken place over the last few years and in which all the interested parties have been involved, including those directly concerned, namely the pilots. that is why i do not think it is reasonable for this project to be challenged and rejected at this time on emotional grounds and on the basis of unsubstantiated claims coming from outside the institutions. the commission's proposal, while perfected, brings some clear improvements, including the reduction of night flight time from 11 hours to 9 hours. i would also like to point out that only a few member states have legislation that is stricter than the commission's proposal. in view of all this, i can only support the commission's proposal and oppose the rejection resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report 'new flight time limitations' because it brings a visible improvement for the safety of passengers and pilots under the new flight time limitation regulation. this regulation reduces the total flight time of pilots to a maximum of 16 hours; for night flights, the flight time will be reduced to 11 hours. member states wishing to apply stricter measures in terms of national legislation in the field of security will be able to do so thanks to the special provisions introduced by the regulation. by adopting this report, the european union will continue to have the strictest rules on flight time limitation, but also the best safety standards.
in writing. − despite the damascus chemical weapons agreement, which offers a real prospect of resolving the civil conflict in syria, the humanitarian crisis is worsening. most refugees are inside syria, but the exodus is also affecting neighboring countries. the humanitarian response depends very much on access by aid workers and refugee aid. it's complicated by the situation on the ground, but also by the relations of syria's neighbors with it. the presence of so many refugees poses security problems, as well as education and health problems, for these countries. the eu, together with its partners, must press for a total cessation of hostilities. it is the best help that can be given to refugees in the first place. otherwise, we risk chronicity and a permanent dependence on aid. we also need to prepare for post-conflict reconstruction, on which the return of refugees to their homes depends. the eu is prepared to respond effectively to such crises and has proven this. but no matter how well prepared we are, we must be aware of our limitations and act to avoid, or when it happens, to shorten this kind of conflict, which is, as i said, the best tool for helping the victims of humanitarian crises.
in writing. - i think we can all agree that what has been happening in syria in recent months, and especially after the use of chemical weapons, is a humanitarian catastrophe. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its solidarity with the syrian people and supported their aspiration for a democratic regime. i believe that in the face of the disaster that the syrians are facing lately, the eu must demonstrate this solidarity in concrete ways and not just on a declarative level. this means welcoming as many syrian refugees as possible and identifying solutions for their fairest distribution in the eu, so that the entire burden is not borne by just a few member states. at the same time, it is important that the reception of refugees is done through legal mechanisms, to avoid migrants attempting to enter the eu by sea with the risk of tragedies like the one in lampedusa earlier this month. last but not least, i think the eu should support the countries in syria's neighbourhood that are hosting a large number of refugees, such as lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq.
question under the 'blue card' procedure. my question was: what is your basis for talking about such an apocalyptic picture of january 1, 2014? it is the obligation of all member states to lift the restrictions on the labour market for romanian and bulgarian workers and i believe that this politicising and populist use of this obligation by the uk is counterproductive for the european union.
mr president, i would like to mention some political aspects of this debate because it is not simply a social and educational debate, it is a highly political debate. the first thing i would like to say is that we must not forget that the roma are the largest minority in europe, but at the same time a minority without political representation, without a voice. there are very few people from this minority who speak for it, which makes this minority feel unrepresented, forgotten and marginalized. this situation now allows several parties to say anything about the roma. we have seen, in particular, in recent times, parties on both the right and the left falling into what we might call the 'populist trap', that is, the illusion that if an extreme idea, whether of the extreme right or the extreme left, is adopted by an establishment party, it becomes acceptable. so we see, all over europe, parties moving in this direction, forgetting also that this is not a good calculation. voters always prefer the original to the copy. they'll never be enthusiastic about a copy that's more or less successful. i would like to mention another aspect, namely the surprise of recently seeing the french prime minister, the socialist jean-marc ayrault, who apparently agreed with the socialists in bucharest on the idea that the roma have, i quote, 'a vocation to return', and this in a situation where we have 15,000 roma recently registered in france and a roma population of about 1.5 to 2 million in romania. the idea that european socialists are now playing this populist card to simply practice a discriminatory policy towards roma based on this idea of a vocation to return is really shocking. i would like to conclude by saying that the debate is not over and that i believe we must follow the line taken by mrs reding for many years. i think that's a really tolerant and intelligent way of dealing with this problem. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i think that's not a real question, it's a comment. i have seen the statements that have been made recently. you know, even though we live in bucharest, manuel valls' travels and the national front's grudge are not lost on us. we can see them from a great distance and we are not so foolish as not to see this agreement, which is really shocking, between the socialists in bucharest and the socialists in paris who say: 'stop the roma'. they're meant to be. this is unacceptable.
the roma minority is in a unique position in europe today. as the biggest losers of the eastern european system change, the vast majority of them live in desperate social conditions, the european union - despite the roma strategy - still does not address the issue in the right way. it is disappointing to see that while member states are not sure what to do about the problem, they are linking it to the delayed accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen and calling into question the free movement of eu citizens. i think it's time we made some statements. first, the roma community is a problem which, although facing serious discrimination in several member states, is primarily of a social nature and therefore requires social, educational and job-creation measures that are subordinated to specific, well-defined strategic objectives. secondly, the general situation of roma communities can only be improved in the medium and long term, there is no miracle cure and the problem cannot be swept under the carpet. three: action is the responsibility of all of us, whether it's on the issue of refugees, whether it's on the issue of immigrants, whether it's on the issue of traditional national minorities. the european union must also be involved in the work and persuade the member states to apply the national action plans of the roma strategy. if the human rights arguments are not enough, consider what it would mean in today's economic climate to include members of this community in the labour market, to reduce the tax they pay and, consequently, to reduce social spending.
it is not the first time that we have discussed the need for a european strategy for roma integration and, unfortunately, we have seen today in the debates how this topic is exploited in electoral and political terms, moving further and further away from the fundamental objective of improving the situation of roma and their full integration into europe. the expulsion policy is not a solution. france has unfortunately received eight times more european funds than romania for the social inclusion of roma and yet it is still becoming a topic of electoral debate. the roma problem is a european problem and i would like to take this opportunity to appreciate what the commissioner said about the need for solidarity and collective efforts by the member states. it serves no one to demonize the roma or their countries of origin. i think it's essential that we focus on stabilizing the nomads, ensuring that their children have access to education and health care, and providing their parents with jobs. it's our duty to help these people understand that there are better alternatives to their way of life, avoiding their marginalization and their blame.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to make a statement. roma are human beings. not everyone in this house might agree with that, but it is quite evidently true. roma are eu citizens and, as such, they have the same rights and the same obligations as other citizens. in order to help them solve their problems – because ten million people here are living below the poverty line – politicians throughout the european union, be they european, national or regional, have the same obligation to give a helping hand as they have towards all eu citizens. so that should be very clear. i am not going to repeat what i have already said and what many of you have underlined. let me just respond to some questions which were asked. mrs járóka – who, by the way, is a roma and, i think, one this house is proud of – said that 10% of the funds do not reach their target. assuming that mrs járóka is right, we have to act at european, national and regional level in order to change this. one of the reasons why i have proposed, at the beginning of next year, to have a big meeting of the mayors of our villages and cities, in order to bring them together with experts in order to understand what the funding possibilities are and how these funds can be utilised so that they reach the target, is just in order to help solve that problem. it has been underlined that there are many positive examples of integration. i know about these too, because i have visited them in our member states, and i know perfectly well how difficult it is for mayors, for instance, living in a small village, when a large number of people come to the village and try to establish themselves, to keep things in balance. we have to help those mayors so that they can maintain a balance. i believe we also need to put more emphasis on dedicating the money in the social funds to poverty and integration. these funds today have a threshold of 15 %, but member states are free to decide whether to use them or not. i would like to have a 20 % threshold with more dedicated rules ensuring this money is used in order to combat poverty and promote integration, because we must know something. if we – and i mean all of us, in the countries of origin and the countries of destination – do not manage, for instance to get roma children into schools, the next generation will be confronted with an even bigger problem to solve. here i think we have a real responsibility as politicians today to get things right. but we also have a responsibility to look at things as they are and not to make a reality from perceptions. that is exactly what i was discussing yesterday with the ministers of the interior. we had the question of the free movement and non-discrimination directives on the table, and i asked everybody not to confuse immigration with free movement, which is one of the most cherished rights of all european citizens. but, like all rights, it also comes with obligations. you not only have the right to go to the neighbouring country, you also have the obligation not to depend heavily on the social security of this neighbouring country. you have the obligation to obey laws, and governments have the obligation to ensure that these laws are implemented. it is the responsibility of national governments to enforce laws and to combat fraud and criminality, whatever the nationality of the european citizen who commits the fraud or the crime. we must stop stigmatising citizens because they are from another ethnic background. i would also like all members of parliament to have this document. i presented the ministers of the interior with an initial analysis on the basis of data which the governments gave us to see what free movement in europe actually is. in fact this free movement in europe is not utilised by our citizens. only 0.29 % of european citizens take advantage of free movement. so let us not behave as if it was an invasion. there will not be an invasion on 1 january 2014 either, because nothing will change. free movement will continue as it is now. so let us stop doing what politicians should never do. we have heard it on occasion today. i must say that i was ashamed to be in this chamber and to hear it, but i was glad that there was a vast majority here who said the opposite. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, honourable members, the council is grateful to the european parliament for its substantive work in support of the social integration of the roma people. this afternoon’s debate has provided us with a valuable opportunity to exchange views on this very important issue. it is not an abstract point. it concerns the future of millions of our fellow eu citizens and i have heard a number of specific cases this afternoon in which roma people have been discriminated against. i would like to once again stress that all ethnic groups, including the roma, are protected by the eu anti-discrimination directive that prohibits discrimination on the grounds of racial or ethnic origin in a number of areas, including conditions for access to employment, access to vocational training, social protection, including social security and health care, education, and access to and the supply of goods and services, including housing. the directive also includes a positive action clause that allows member states to maintain or adopt specific measures to prevent or compensate for disadvantages linked to racial or ethnic origin. i look forward to continuing the excellent cooperation between the council, commission and parliament in this important area.
in writing. the present debate on the roma comes amid complaints from some member states about the influx of this ethnic group nomadic by historical definition and the problems caused by the different lifestyles of the members of the ethnic group. i would like to stress that roma are european citizens and, with or without the barriers of the schengen area, they can move freely within the eu. i welcome the commission's initiative and the existence of european funds as much as is allocated to the social inclusion of the roma. i remind you that my country, romania, has made efforts to integrate this ethnic group, efforts that no one appreciated, wrongly considering that lack of effect equals lack of effort. i look forward to the methods found by the states promoting multiculturalism and i am convinced that they will have spectacular results. in conclusion, i would stress that social inclusion must be achieved in the state of residence which roma have chosen by virtue of their right to free movement and not in the state of origin which they will leave immediately after a possible 'repatriere' in order to return to where they feel better, where they want to live, work and study. i end by wishing these states much success.
in writing. unfortunately, we have been discussing roma issues for years, we have been talking about a european roma strategy, but the situation remains the same, too much talk and too little action. roma remain the most discriminated population, they are still expelled from eu countries to other countries, denied the right to free movement, demonized and marginalized. i would also like to express my concern about the voices being raised in some member states which automatically associate roma with criminal phenomena and which use this false argument in a populist manner in domestic political discourse. the problems facing the roma population are not the problems of a single member state, and a european response is therefore needed to ensure the integration of this minority and to combat discrimination and xenophobia.
in writing. many roma citizens in europe face prejudice, intolerance, discrimination and social exclusion in their daily lives. they are marginalized and live in very precarious socioeconomic conditions. on average, only one in two roma children attend pre-school or kindergarten; school attendance falls considerably after compulsory education, and only 15% of roma young people complete upper secondary education; on average, less than one in three roma citizens report being employed; 20% of them do not have health insurance, and 90% live below the poverty line. the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. roma citizens are european citizens and have equal rights with all other european citizens, including the right to move freely and to settle and work in any of the member states. the integration of roma citizens is a european problem and not one of any particular member state. we call on the commission and the member states to ensure the integration of roma citizens and to stop discrimination against them on the basis of their ethnicity.
in writing. the far right is growing alarmingly in europe, amid the economic and social crisis and the crisis of confidence in the democratic system. the facts show that extremist discourse is doubled by violence that has escalated to murder, as happened recently in greece. unfortunately, some traditional parties believe they can avoid losing popularity by embracing radical ideas. for the first time since the fall of nazism, europe is facing the threat of the far right in a serious way. an extreme anti-european, anti-semitic, anti-islam, anti-immigration, anti-roma, racist and brutal, who propagates the primitive thesis of the danger of foreigners taking the jobs of locals, commits crimes, therefore must be expelled and eliminated. in the 1930s, from this point, it was just a step away from the ovens of auschwitz and a devastating conflagration. at least in the last hour europe must show that it has learned something from a history of bloody fanaticism.
the essence of intelligence cooperation is to carry out covert, covert, multi-state coordinated actions to ensure our security. i think that no one is questioning the need for the activities of the secret services, the cooperation between them, the joint action with allied services in the fight against terrorism. but we are talking about practices on the territory of european states that are in sharp contrast to the human rights system that we have developed over decades and of which we are proud. i've said it many times: if we don't take our own rules seriously, how are we going to take them seriously in other parts of the world? this case has symbolic significance. can a breach of a series of international conventions, committed with the knowledge of the public authorities, be allowed to go unpunished in the european union? i think the most basic requirement is that european citizens have a clear view of the matter. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. i obviously agree i will try to answer the question that it is the member states' responsibility to investigate. let me not list the countries involved so that the investigation can take place there. i am not sure how to respond to this, whether it is the snowden case or the cia case, but it is obviously a matter for the member states. you have to help them if they don't make it. by the way, about our countries, romania is also affected, i come from there, so i can't intervene in the hungarian issue.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me state again that the council fully shares the view that respect for human rights and international law in the fight against terror is fundamental. a number of speakers this evening have called on the council to investigate allegations of member states’ involvement in a programme of transportation and illegal detention of prisoners by the cia. the council consists of the representatives of the governments of the 28 member states. even if it had the legal basis to do so, the council would never have the political support of all 28 member states to issue a statement about such involvement, let alone initiate investigations. i realise that may be frustrating to members of this house to hear, but we also operate within the framework of rules which have to be respected. if there are allegations of inappropriate involvement by member states in such activities, this is first and foremost an issue of scrutiny by national parliaments, by national authorities, by national legal authorities, and there are channels at the national level for holding national executives to account. these can, of course, also go wider than national level, because all member states are contracting parties to the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. so mechanisms do exist, but they are not mechanisms which are under the control of the council. that is why the council has been unable to follow up on the recommendations in your resolution. it has nothing to do with an absence of loyal cooperation. it has everything to do with the legal and constitutional framework within which we all operate. i therefore ask for your understanding and thank you for your attention.
in writing. the resolution on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, adopted by the ep, again calls on the eu institutions and member states to investigate in detail the cia's operations. in 2007, the final report of the tdip interim committee recommended, among other things, the monitoring of the cia's actions at a later stage, followed by the resolution adopted in 2012 asking the ep to return to the subject after one year. the resolution does not introduce any new elements and, moreover, makes recommendations that go beyond the powers of parliament and the eu. in addition to the legally incorrect paragraphs (which call into question the right of the italian head of state to grant a pardon), there are also false elements such as the responsibility of the member states for the existence of the guantanamo prison, due to their refusal to accept prisoners on their territory. the resolution addresses 13 member states, including romania, with a view to the prompt launch of an 'independent, impartial, thorough and effective' investigation into their involvement in the cia prison programme. the european parliament's right to investigate violations of fundamental rights by eu member states is strengthened, with the parliament reiterating its recommendations to the council, asking it to make a statement recognising the involvement of states in cia programmes.
in writing. i disagree with the reopening of the discussion about alleged cia prisons: since there is no new element, to debate again about the allegations seems like a pure electoral gesture. i also object to the re-launching of criticism of the romanian authorities in this case. there is no evidence whatsoever that there were secret cia detention centres on romanian territory or that romanian airports were used by the cia to transport or detain prisoners suspected of terrorist acts. in romania, a special committee of inquiry was set up at the senate level, which reached this conclusion as early as 2008. in addition, romania has cooperated transparently with all international investigative mechanisms. the paragraphs in the resolution on romania can only cast parliament in a bad light through the dubious sources used. we cannot rely on a tv broadcast of a former security official currently on trial for money laundering, nor on the statements of the former head of the foreign intelligence service during the neo-communist iliescu government. i vote against this text.
i agree with my colleague pirker. in the last 25 years, nearly 20,000 illegal migrants have drowned in the mediterranean sea. so far 231 bodies have been discovered in lampedusa. this tragedy shows us once again that regret is not enough to stop the lives lost. illegal migration not only costs lives but also increases human trafficking and smuggling of cigarettes and other contraband. eurosur, a european border surveillance system, aims to strengthen the external borders of the schengen area and ensure internal security by preventing crime. the union must increase its capacity to react by introducing a centralised system of cooperation between member states. in addition, we need to provide a common technical and operational framework for surveillance tools and also clear competences for all member states. only in this way can we protect the lives of migrants and ensure a european security area. and finally, let us not forget that extradition of persons to a state with a high risk of capital punishment or other inhumane punishments or torture is prohibited by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and wish him a very happy birthday. i am very grateful to the eurosur system, i am grateful for the work done and, of course, for the welcome from the commission. we talk a lot about the effects, we talk a lot about what happened and how tragic it is, but we talk far too little about the causes. at the moment we are dealing with, rather, with deficient systems in border control, particularly at maritime borders, with deficient cooperation on security between the member states of the european union or between the european union as a whole and african countries, and often with a lack of funds and intervention apparatus. i'll give you an example: i was recently on a delegation somewhere in the gulf of aden, to find out that there is a desire to combat piracy in an area of over 2,000 square kilometres, but without a monitoring system. the maritime police have no way of reaching the scene in record time to catch the perpetrators. so i think we need much better cooperation in terms of fighting piracy and we need better cooperation between the governments of the member states, the african states.
for national authorities to cooperate in combating crossborder crime, there must first be harmonisation of information channels between member states and, of course - i agree with my colleague - common standards in the member states. as rapporteur for the eurodac regulation, i know how the tools for exchanging information between member states work. the eurodac database - that is, the fingerprints database - allows national authorities to access information for the prevention of very serious crime and terrorism, for the identification of perpetrators, witnesses or victims. investigators can check whether organised crime networks or terrorist movements are trying to bring their members into the eu under false identities to allow them to stay legally in the eu and possibly commit serious crimes. that's why i argue that access to this data is very useful in the fight against cross-border crime. but member states cannot access the eurodac database unless they first search for information in another database, namely prüm, which now only operates in 11 member states, reducing access to information from the two systems, eurodac and prüm. member states that have not yet implemented the prüm decision must do so as soon as possible and thus put into practice the requirements of the european commission in order to be able to use information that is essential in the fight against cross-border crime.
we talk a lot about data protection, we talk a lot about transparency, we talk a lot about the desire to make as much information available to citizens to be successful in whatever direction we're talking about. we talk about free movement, but we fail to develop common standards, we fail to link existing institutions, and i tell you that recently i had the honour of hosting in the european parliament the so-called euhackathon event, where experts from 17 eu and non-eu countries analysed the transparency of data made available in the online spectrum versus the security of citizens. i tell you that in some cases the situation is still catastrophic within the european union, not to mention the relationship between the european union and other states. that is why i believe that the european commission must better link up the existing european systems, whether it is schengen, whether it is sis ii, whether it is eurodac and so on - europol, eurojustice - and secondly, we must provide concrete programmes for their implementation.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, vice-president mcmillan-scott, who unfortunately cannot be here today, and especially ms mazzoni who is the chair of the committee on petitions, for the excellent report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012. the commission has taken note with great interest of this report, which provides extremely comprehensive and interesting information and statistics. the report also points out some of the most topical and sensitive policy areas which are subject to petitions, and on which the commission and the european parliament are already working closely and will continue to exchange information and views. here, i am thinking first and foremost of the different petitions in the areas of fundamental rights, environment, internal market and those related to the economic and social crisis: rights of persons with disabilities, rights of children, rights of free movement without discrimination on any grounds, rights of minorities, access to documents and information, implementation of legislation on waste and water, as well as assessment of the impact of projects and activities on the environment, free movement of citizens and workers, housing, banking sector malpractices and so forth – these are all issues about which our citizens are concerned in a very concrete and tangible way and which have to be addressed properly and with due care, whenever the european union has the competence and capacity to act. the work of the committee on petitions in this respect is of utmost importance. it implements one of the most fundamental rights of european citizens – the right to petition. the commission is particularly happy to be able to contribute to this significant work. this is an important investment in terms of resources, but it is clearly worth it, since handling citizens’ petitions is ultimately also a way for the eu institutions to win citizens’ trust in these difficult times. in this regard, the european parliament and the commission clearly share the commitment to put citizens first. citizens are and will always have to remain at the centre of all our activities and discussions. we cannot repeat this often enough, especially in this year, the european year of citizens. on collaboration with the commission, my colleagues and i would like to reassure you, as we did in previous years, of our continued and strong commitment to closely work with you on parliamentary petitions. as mr mcmillan-scott’s report points out, the european parliament asked for our contributions on 853 petitions out of 1 406 admissible petitions which you received in 2012, thus representing more than 60 % of the total. i would just like to underline that out of these 853 we managed to respond to 838 within one year. this is also proof of how we are trying to accelerate our work within the commission. i myself had a fruitful exchange with your committee in may last year and am looking forward to our next discussion. i believe that this work and involvement is very important and shows the commission’s commitment to contributing to the effective implementation of citizens’ right to petition. if you would allow me one sentence on the current european year of citizens: this year has provided an opportunity for people throughout europe to learn more about their rights and in particular those linked to eu citizenship, like the right to petition. i know that the committee on petitions has devoted a lot of time and effort to discussing the meaning of citizenship and eu rights for eu citizens. i think this is a very positive development and a very important activity. let us hope that this will encourage our fellow european citizens to use, even more than before, all available tools whereby they can participate in a more direct manner in the democratic life of the union. i shall conclude by stressing that the commission looks forward to continuing and enhancing its fruitful cooperation with the european parliament in the field of petitions in the coming months and years.
on behalf of the epp group. i am speaking here on behalf of my colleague, elena băsescu, who has been following this report for the epp group but who cannot be in the plenary today and on her behalf i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs for their very good cooperation. what to say about the petitions issue: in 2012 i think we have a balanced report, which reflects the work of our committee quite well, although, it must be said, there have been delays in the processing of petitions. the very positive aspect of the field is the increase in the number of petitions. we can infer from this that indeed european citizens are more informed about this tool and also have confidence in its use. there is also a negative aspect that i would like to stress, namely that many of the debates in the committee on petitions last year were politicised in the sense that political struggles in the member states were transferred to the european parliament. i do not want to talk about other member states, i will talk about the country i come from. politicians from the socialist group, but also from the liberal group, used the committee on petitions to criticize projects that were under debate in the country - in particular, i can give you the example of the gold mining project in rosia montana - a project that, once they came to government, the socialists assumed. the committee on petitions has been used in this way for political purposes. it is a pity, because time was lost in this way, and it was not possible to discuss, for example, the restrictions on the labour market for romanian and bulgarian workers or the discriminatory treatment of roma. the citizens' confidence in the instrument that the committee represents cannot be increased if, i repeat, political arguments are introduced into this committee.
i would first like to express my regret that the rapporteur is not present today for the debate on an excellent report, which reflects the work of the committee on petitions in 2012. this report is important for the european parliament, for the european citizens and, in particular, for the socialist group and for me, because it gives us the opportunity to draw conclusions about how european legislation delivers the results it is supposed to deliver and how it meets the expectations of the european citizens. as in previous years, the committee on petitions received a very large number of petitions alleging breaches of european environmental law. i would like to ask the member states once again - and i would refer the matter to the council - to discuss this matter in order to respond to the legitimate and justified requests of the committee on petitions and the european commission within a reasonable time. it is ultimately at stake when it comes to the environment, the quality of life of european citizens in our countries, and the preservation of a unique natural heritage and biodiversity. in the same vein, i welcome the proposal to amend the european directive on environmental impact assessment, which was voted on yesterday, and which contains an absolutely important contribution from the committee on petitions. this zanoni report, substantially inspired by the work of our committee, proposes remedies and requires the environmental impact study of shale gas extraction, exploration and exploitation. this report further proves that we have frequent and widespread cases of incomplete or bad faith transposition of the european commission's provisions. the committee on petitions should define more clearly the criteria for admissibility in order to avoid being used in the future for nationalist, populist or anti-european actions.
the 2006 battery directive sought to ban the use of cadmium, allowing only a few exceptions, because of the risks to the environment, but also because it has been associated with the risk of serious diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. similarly, the use of mercury is restricted by european legislation, being classified as an occupational hazard with known physiological and psychological effects. the european union has a responsibility to protect both the environment and public health, but health, safety and environmental concerns often conflict with the needs of industry and even the individual needs of citizens for goods and services. that is why a balance in regulation is needed, and in this case i believe that balance has been reached. the current regulations have reduced the presence of these toxic substances in household products, thereby reducing the harmful effects on the environment and, consequently, our exposure to these substances. alternative and innovative technologies as well as environmentally friendly products were encouraged at the same time. this new inter-institutional agreement shows the success of these solutions, which means reducing pollution and health risks. i particularly welcome the council's acceptance of parliament's proposal on the design of household appliances, which encourages easy battery replacement. today, too many parts, even whole machines, are thrown away too easily. we have become a society that wastes a lot of goods and resources.
in writing. − i consider that the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and the kingdom of jordan represents a step forward in the european policy of supporting stability in the middle east region. the european union has proved to be one of the international actors capable of stimulating political transformation and democratisation, with the security of its citizens becoming one of the key objectives of its foreign policy. i therefore believe that this agreement is a continuation of the efforts made by the european union at regional and global level. the eu has also provided a comprehensive response to the syrian refugee crisis, including through the establishment of a new international refugee crisis management system. european leaders have repeatedly expressed regret at the unfortunate impact of the conflict on the civilian population, and the current situation in jordan calls for the support that the union must generously provide in order to remain true to its own political values.
in writing. − i believe that the framework agreement between the european union and jordan on its participation in union programmes will allow for better cooperation between the two parties through programmes under the european neighbourhood instrument and other financial instruments available for the external action of the european union. this cooperation will allow for enhanced political and economic dialogue and adequate support for jordan in pursuit of reforms to strengthen democracy, accountability, transparency and justice.
in writing. - i voted for this report. jordan is an important partner for the european union in the middle east, a stable regime that has been an oasis of peace during crises that have affected its neighbours. jordan is also the country that receives the largest number of refugees from the conflicts in the region. after palestinian refugees, iraqi refugees, in 2012-2013, the number of syrian refugees increased to more than 500,000. that said, jordan's participation in european union programmes also signifies a commitment to make progress on human rights and democratisation. democratic institutions need to be strengthened, such as the jordanian parliament, which currently has too little role in the political system. the jordanian regime must allow the establishment of a civil society that allows for public debate on government measures.
in writing. − free movement is a defining principle of the european union, and the possibility for every citizen to move within the european union without being subject to internal border controls is one of its most successful achievements. many people use this freedom and public opinion has repeatedly expressed the view that free movement is one of the union's most important benefits. for our economy too, free movement is essential to the success of the single market. schengen cannot be abolished and i also believe that the accession of a member state to the schengen area cannot be blocked when the accession criteria are met. rather, it should be strengthened by better management of the eu's external borders, which ensures full mutual trust between member states.
in writing. − i support the conclusions of the report, which propose to extend for a period of one year the derogation period for the use of cadmium in portable batteries and accumulators intended for use in cordless electrical appliances. the additional time period may boost the development of technologies for the economically efficient recycling of lithium-ion batteries and accumulators, as a compromise solution capable of meeting the expectations of both european consumers and eu entrepreneurs. i believe that the european union must continue to support research into the energy footprint of batteries and accumulators in the economy. the polluting effect of these technologies cannot be ignored, and the reduction of the energy footprint as well as the limitation of pollution are clearly stated objectives in the strategic and political documents of the european union.
in writing. − there are several good elements in this agreement, but i particularly welcome the requirement for appliance design to ensure that waste batteries can be removed easily. nowadays, too many parts, appliances and goods are disposed of prematurely. design specifications – not just for individual products but also for manufacturing processes and distribution chains – need to address this problem. intelligent management of resources and waste is key to meeting the biggest health and environmental challenges that the world’s growing population faces.
i too would like to know if and where there were illegal detention centres, but today, with this resolution, practically, as far as romania is concerned at least, the security council has entered the european parliament and has become a source of information. two sources of information are mentioned for romania: a broadcast on antennas television, owned by a person who is a collaborator of securitate, which is established by a final court decision, and who is also sent to court for money laundering and other serious crimes, mr. voiculescu. another source of information is general talpes, who was head of the foreign intelligence service immediately after 1990, during 1992 and in the following years, when the communists were in power in romania, trying to show with a painted face that they are something else. so on these two sources a resolution is voted by which romania is accused. it seems to me unacceptable that in 2013 the european parliament should be fooled in this way.
in writing. − the exchange of information on crossborder criminal activities is at the heart of law enforcement cooperation in the eu and is particularly relevant in an area without internal border controls. in the european union, cross-border crime is on the rise, highlighting the need for effective and secure exchange of law enforcement information, with respect for data protection and fundamental rights. the various cross-border tools for the exchange of law enforcement information, including the provision of cross-border access to national databases, lead to an inconsistent and unclear data protection regime, often based on the lowest common denominator as a result of a fragmented approach. i therefore believe that, in order to strengthen and improve the information exchange system, measures to ensure an effective system to guarantee data protection, as specified in the opinion of the european data protection supervisor (edps), should be encouraged.
in writing. − i believe that the european parliament should participate in the democratic monitoring and control of the implementation of the prüm decision by including the current crossborder police cooperation instruments adopted under the former third pillar (prüm decision and swedish initiative) in the legal framework of the lisbon treaty. on the other hand, i support the rapporteur's proposal to simplify the use of existing tools and channels (such as the ex officio use of the europol channel and the creation of integrated national single points of contact) to improve the cross-border exchange of information.
in writing. − i believe that the eu must promote non-discrimination and inclusive policies and business with countries affected by caste, including positive action for people affected by caste in the labour market and the private sector.
in writing. − the right to petition parliament is a fundamental right regulated by article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the committee on petitions is a special link between citizens and the european institutions. the number of petitions increased from 1 414 in 2011 to 1 985 in 2012. of these, 854 were declared admissible and forwarded to the european commission for further investigation. the commission's report on its work shows that petitions received in 2012 focused on environmental protection, and in this area corruption in the member states causes sometimes irreparable losses. the risk to public health can never be overestimated. the case of illegal gold mining in rosia montana in romania is emblematic. the operation was approved without further analysis of its impact on the area and on health.
the double suicide bombing of a church in peshawar, the expulsion of christians from maalula and the arrest of pastor abedini are indeed the most outrageous attacks in the campaign against christians. the killing of over 80 christians in pakistan reflects the unwillingness of pakistani authorities to stop the extremists' crimes, and the atrocities in syria reveal the major risk facing the arab world: indiscriminate religious warfare. we condemn in the strongest possible terms the expulsion of 5,000 christians from maalula, the attacks on civilians and the desecration of places of worship. maalula is a symbol because it is the home of the oldest christian community in the world that still uses the aramaic language spoken by jesus. we call on the commission and the member states to make the defence of christians in syria and throughout the east a foreign policy priority. the european union has a duty to act firmly in defence of religious freedom and the rights of the christian minority.
a 2011 report found that 100 million christians worldwide are suffering persecution because of their religion. it's an astonishing number, one-fifth of the population of the union, i would say. of course, the most extreme form of persecution is when people are killed, tortured, or imprisoned simply because of their faith. and the state often condones crimes against christians. but beyond these cases, many christians are restricted in their religious practice, discriminated against in their workplace, in education, in various areas of daily life. sadly, it is an undeniable fact that persecution and persecution of people of the christian religion is now becoming a common phenomenon in non-christian-majority nations. christians in the world cannot understand why the christian-populated european union does not speak out more forcefully against this phenomenon and does not stand up for christians in bilateral relations. a lot of people don't understand that here, or in europe.
the author. - tomorrow, in addis ababa, an african union summit is being held and, at the initiative of kenya and uganda, among others, the withdrawal of african countries from the international criminal court will be discussed. several african countries will demand impunity for the serious crimes covered by the rome statute. one of the people directly concerned in this matter and who will be attending the meeting is omar al-bashir himself; his latest feat, as already mentioned, is over 250 dead in clashes with protesters who are unhappy with the increase in fuel prices. the same omar al-bashir tried to distribute cash and raise the minimum wage to calm some of the discontent. on the other hand, there is good news: some 800 detained protesters will be released, which shows that international pressure is working. that's why we have to keep pressing this regime.
indeed, the recent brutal reprisals by the authorities in khartoum are outrageous. the killing and torture of opponents, the blocking of internet access, the arrest of journalists and the closure of independent newspapers show just how far the al-bashir regime goes to stay in power. sudan has come in last place in the freedom of the press chapter, and the anti-government protests have been, as stated here, violently suppressed by the sudanese security forces. we strongly condemn the killing of hundreds of protesters and demand the immediate release of all journalists and political prisoners illegally detained without their families or lawyers being able to contact them. and i do believe that mrs ashton must urgently reverse her decision to suspend the mandate of the european union special representative for sudan and south sudan, because the european union must be an active presence in the stabilisation and democratisation of the region and the african continent.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to express the view of mrs ashton, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union, who apologizes to you and, in particular, to the authors of this debate, mr czarnecki, mrs kiil-nielsen, mrs de keyser, mr preda and mrs vergiat. the high representative has asked me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that she warmly welcomes and thanks you for this resolution on the fighting in sudan, which concerns the fighting, of course, but also the media censorship that has followed, which you have described in detail. in recent weeks, sudan has been the scene of the largest demonstrations in many years. the government reacted with great violence, and we deplore the deaths of dozens of protesters and the hundreds of injured and imprisoned. the government did everything possible to prevent the publication of independent reports describing these events. strict press censorship is in place today for newspapers, news agencies have been closed, journalists have been arrested or harassed and the internet has been deliberately disrupted. mrs ashton issued a statement on 30 september, expressing her deep concern at the violence and loss of life. it called on the government to refrain from excessive use of force and to respect freedom of expression and the media. it also demanded that the announcements made by the government to start an inclusive national dialogue be followed up with concrete actions. the human rights situation in sudan remains, as you all said, deeply worrying: the restriction of civil and political rights and freedom of expression persists, as does sexual discrimination and gender-based violence. human rights activists face many abuses: the conflicts in darfur, south kordofan and blue nile involve human rights violations on a very large scale, and it is well known that impunity remains a major problem. ladies and gentlemen, the european union's relations with sudan are affected by the government's lack of cooperation with the international criminal court. however, at the moment, the gradual improvement in relations between sudan and south sudan gives us an opportunity for increased engagement and to send messages in favour of internal dialogue and political transformation while maintaining, as you have understood, a firm and uncompromising discourse on human rights. i think the european parliament has an important role to play. many of you, through your initiatives and visits, have demonstrated this in this region to facilitate additional channels of communication. i would therefore like to conclude, on behalf of mrs ashton, by encouraging parliament to continue these contacts in the future, to show that the human rights situation in sudan remains, for all of us, a priority for the whole european union. i would like to say something specifically to mrs kiil-nielsen, mrs andrikienė, mrs creţu, mrs senyszyn and mr sonik, who have raised the specific question of our representation in this region and in this country, and i would like to reassure them that sudan remains a priority for the european union. i would like to pay tribute, on behalf of the high representative, to the excellent work of rosalind marsden and her commitment to sudan over the past few years, in extremely difficult circumstances. his duties will now be taken over by the special representative for the horn of africa, mr alexander rondos, and the european union delegation. we are convinced that this new operational work architecture will make it possible to achieve synergies at regional level. it will also, ladies and gentlemen, enable the european union to align itself and be consistent with the positions of the african union and the united nations, which are gradually giving their representatives a wider regional mandate in this area. that is what i wanted to say about the particular problem, personal to many of you, that you have mentioned. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. these new abuses by the sudanese government show us once again that omar al-bashir's regime has no respect for its people and no respect for international norms. al-bashir has an icc warrant from 2009 for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. i want to remind the states that signed the rome statute that they are obliged to hand over omar al-bashir if he is on their soil. now the sudanese regime is trying to suppress the protests of those who are fed up with the murderous dictatorship of al-bashir. more than 100 people have been killed by the security forces, most of them young people under 25 or children. to keep the public from learning about the protests, the authorities have censored the media and telephone networks. the european union should coordinate with the united nations to update the list of persons who are under a travel ban and whose accounts have been frozen. this list has not been updated since 2007 and contains only six names. financial and travel sanctions must be imposed on all those responsible for repression against the population.
the european union is also deeply concerned about the deteriorating situation in iraq. we all participated and saw what was, after the fall of the hussein regime, the hope and expectation for a new iraq; that is why we see with such sadness this collapse into the spiral of violence and lawlessness. it's the bloodiest year in iraq since 2008. nearly 5,000 people have died since the beginning of the year, nearly 1,000 of them in september alone. and this alarming level of violence is amplified by abuses against political prisoners, journalists, women and minorities. of course, the instability in iraq affects the entire region. we therefore call on the iraqi authorities to put an end to impunity and to the brutal violations of international laws and conventions to which this country is a party. we strongly condemn the terrorist attacks and the escalation of sectarian violence, which threaten the stability and integrity of iraq. we also call for the repeal of the provisions in the penal code that favor discrimination against women. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mrs creţu began her speech by saying that she had participated in the overthrow of saddam hussein and i would like some details on this participation of her reign.
answer to the blue card. i think you weren't paying enough attention or maybe i didn't express myself well enough. in 2005, i did attend a training for all iraqi speakers in amman, jordan.
the author. - so that's how saddam fell, with the training of the spokesmen. it's very serious what's going on in iraq. on 1 september 2013, iraqi security forces attacked iranian dissidents in camp ashraf, killing 52 people and kidnapping seven others, six of whom were women. the hostages are being held at an unidentified location in iraq and are at risk of being deported to iran. hostages are protected persons under the geneva convention. the forced repatriation of these people to iran, where they will be persecuted for their resistance to the political regime in iran, is a serious violation of international law. hurriya camp, where the last 42 ashraf refugees were forcibly relocated and where more than 3,400 iranian dissidents are sheltering, has been the target of attacks by iranian regime supporters, the bloodiest of which occurred on 9 february 2013. an independent investigation by international bodies investigating terrorist attacks is mandatory.
the challenges facing the entire planet in climate change require ever stronger and more robust international agreements on cooperation between countries at different levels, because no country can do it alone. in addition, these international agreements must be supported at national level by policies that are taken up by all public and private partners. i think it is important that all countries work together to establish clear rules on land use, agriculture, biofuels, industrial or residential areas and land use change, especially for forested areas, which play a key role in reducing carbon emissions, but also in preventing floods and landslides. it is also important that the european union and the member states continue the process of developing sustainable bioenergy resources, but without affecting agricultural areas. i hope these things are on the agenda of the warsaw conference.
with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which gives the european parliament new responsibilities in the field of international trade, decisions on trade disputes should have been taken through the codecision procedure. but this is proving slow and ineffective. the commission's proposal is therefore welcome and the new regulation will enable the european union to react promptly when trade rules are not respected. however, the document envisages the possibility of adopting measures to restore mutual advantages only in the area of goods. what will the european union do when a partner that sells services almost exclusively causes it harm? to be credible, the european union must have concrete dispute settlement mechanisms, and these cannot exclude services, which are part of the set of measures proposed by the world trade organisation. the european parliament must also be kept informed of cases that are in progress and, in particular, of the measures envisaged by the commission and their impact on european industries. that is why i have asked, together with my colleagues in the committee on international trade, for a platform for dialogue between parliament and the commission on this subject.
a brief comment on this report, which i consider fair and balanced: exactly one year ago, in october 2012, we had a debate in parliament on russia's accession to the world trade organization. i, along with many colleagues, welcomed the conclusion of the negotiations, hoping that russia would abandon the hostile measures it is taking in the field of agricultural trade with the european union. what happened since then? earlier this year, russia announced it was banning imports of chilled meat from germany, then in july 2013, russia announced it would no longer import potatoes or seedlings from the european union. examples could go on and on, but i don't think we have that much time tonight. russia must stop using health grounds to block agricultural trade. in these circumstances, we must give the union's institutions effective means to safeguard our commercial interests.
the vilnius summit should be a historic moment for the eastern partnership member countries in their efforts to move closer to the european union. it is in the european union's interest, first and foremost, to have a stable political and economic neighbourhood for the benefit of its own security. i therefore hope that the association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area with ukraine, will be signed at the meeting on 28-29 november and that the agreements with georgia and the republic of moldova will be initialled. we have a duty to support these states in practice, in the context of continuing pressure from russia, and i just want to remind you that the recent statements by the president of armenia that his country will join the customs union of russia, kazakhstan and belarus demonstrate the effectiveness of these pressures. after being subject to an embargo on wine exports, the republic of moldova was threatened with a power outage this winter. the more courageous its decision to pursue european integration is, the more it depends on russia for energy. i would like to welcome, in this context, the prompt and effective reaction of commissioner ciolos. it proposed the complete liberalisation of wine imports from the republic of moldova to the european union before the entry into force of the association agreement. i am confident that the european parliament, through the committee on international trade, will approve the european commission's proposal, thus giving a clear signal that it supports the chisinau authorities' determination to join the european union. last but not least, i advocate an individual approach to the countries concerned, so that the efforts of the most active and consistent partners are proportionately encouraged, with the sole aim of their european integration as quickly as possible.
mr president, it is a fact that russia is openly blackmailing our eastern partners. let me recall the case of moldova. its wine exports have been banned from the russian market since the beginning of september. i welcome the commission’s initiative to fully liberalise the bilateral wine trade. i want to take this opportunity to express my confidence that we in this house will make all necessary efforts to ensure that the liberalisation of the wine trade comes into effect as soon as possible. but this is only one way to react to the pressure being exerted by russia ahead of vilnius. we should not only react, but also act and have a clear vision on the post-vilnius period. we should ensure that the association agreement, including the dcfta, is signed and provisionally applied without delay. i call on the commission to take all necessary steps. i am equally concerned by the energy component of our relationship with moldova. recently the russian authorities again told moldovans that they might freeze this winter. how will the eu support moldova in this regard?
with regard to the eastern partnership, an initiative of the european union which is aimed at countries that have broken away from the former soviet union, i too find it unnatural that russia is dissatisfied with the signing of economic agreements between the european union and countries such as ukraine, moldova and georgia. i would remind you of the embargo imposed by moscow on imports of wine from the republic of moldova, as well as other political pressures, energy, commercial and military blackmail exercised in recent months against the republic of moldova. it is regrettable that russia, a member of the council of europe and the osce, still considers the european aspirations of some former soviet states to be an act of hostility towards it. it is the sovereign right of any state to define its foreign policy options. i congratulate the lithuanian presidency on the momentum it has brought to the association process and ask the commission and the council to continue to support reforms and the consolidation of democratic progress in the eastern partnership countries. it is in our interest that these countries benefit from the opportunities of access to the union's markets, to develop and to provide their citizens with a decent life.
the vilnius summit is being heralded as a historic moment. we all look forward to the signing of the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade area with ukraine and the initialling of the agreement with moldova and georgia respectively. that's why we're concerned about the signals coming from kiev. president yanukovych must keep his word and offer a solution to the tymoshenko case. this is not about a person, but about a symbol - a symbol of a free justice, uncontrolled by political power. the signs in georgia are also worrying, from the same perspective of a partisan justice, because there have been arrested, as is known, in a politically unbalanced justice, several former political leaders. in georgia, we are also seeing political pressure on the media. in this context, moldova stands out as the best student and therefore we believe that, according to the logic of 'more for more', we should reward chisinau. however, in order to consolidate the positive developments here, it is essential that the association agreement and the free trade area become operational as soon as possible, i.e. before the end of the current commission's mandate. i would like to conclude by saying that we hope to receive good news from all our eastern partners so that the vilnius summit can be truly historic.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i am really pleased by the comprehensive debate provoked by this oral question. this only reiterates and reinforces the long-standing interest and the contribution which meps have been devoting to this issue of strengthening the eastern partnership as a political, economic and social concept of the european union. therefore, we very much appreciate the fact that the processes of signing or initialling the association agreement, together with the free trade part of this agreement, with ukraine, moldova and georgia, are advancing. these are the dynamics of the process: meeting the political criteria and trade benchmarks will enable, we hope, speedy progress towards the signing of this agreement. for the european commission, the eastern partnership is not only about trade or economic policy; it is a wider and interlinked concept of political and democratic values that the european union would like to have across the borders of the enlargement and eastern partnership policies. therefore, we are committed to deepening the eastern partnership and its development and to stabilising the role that it would bring to the overall european area. in terms of russia’s attempts to influence negatively the processes of trade and also the political rapprochement of the countries of the eastern partnership, the response or the position of the commission and the european union is that we have reiterated on many occasions that russia must respect the sovereign decisions of states, and we have made it clear that threats from russia linked to the possible signing of agreements with the eu are unacceptable. we shall continue along these lines. on some concrete questions – specifically on moldova’s trade, or banning the wine and spirit trade to russia – the european union’s response to this situation is immediate full liberalisation of imports of wine for moldova, and this will be done under the autonomous trade preferences; on the one hand the european union’s autonomous trade preferences, which will be granted to moldova, accompanied by the process in the world trade organisation on waiving the tariff rate quotas. so our overall approach is that we will not only continue to offer and pursue trade-related benefits and preferences for these countries, but we will also seriously take on board all the proposals and views, tabled during this debate, which will assist us in future policy-making in areas other than trade: policy-making in the energy sector partnership and in a transport sector partnership, and other measures which could strengthen the european eastern partnership framework.
in writing. the signing of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement at the vilnius summit in november confirms the irreversible european path of the republic of moldova. despite pressure from the russian federation, the republic of moldova continues to lead the way in reforms in the eastern partnership group of countries. in line with the principle 'more for more', i ask the european commission to make every effort to reward the progress of the republic of moldova with concrete actions. first, the european commission must accelerate the preparation of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement documents for signature before autumn 2014. every extra month that the signing of the alsac is delayed is an opportunity for the russian federation to blackmail the republic of moldova with the cessation of gas exports, or, worse, the reactivation of the conflict in the transnistrian region. secondly, the european commission must respond to the economic pressures of the russian federation by creating opportunities for the development of trade with the republic of moldova. a first step has been taken with the abolition of quotas for wine exports; the same can be done for fruit and vegetable exports from the republic of moldova to the european union.
i would like to draw attention today to the fact that romania and bulgaria can no longer be kept on the margins of the schengen area as second-rate countries. romania and bulgaria have played by the rules. now it's time for the referees to enforce the rules. romania and bulgaria must be urgently removed from the agenda of election campaigns, in which cynical and unimaginative politicians seek to win votes by engaging in xenophobic rhetoric. in june 2011, the jha council recognised that romania and bulgaria fulfilled all the criteria of the schengen acquis. furthermore, the council has decreed that this should be done as soon as possible and no later than september 2011. the european council of 2 march 2012 openly requested that it take a decision in favour of romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. if romania and bulgaria are not urgently included in the schengen area, then we will all be guilty of sabotaging the architecture of the european union and undermining the european treaties.
shale gas is an important issue for the european union, both in terms of environmental protection and economic development and population bills. we recently had the opportunity to participate in the improvement of environmental legislation on shale gas. we have succeeded in making environmental impact assessment studies mandatory for both exploration and exploitation, so that any operation is carried out with the utmost care and safety for the environment and for people. i was one of the initiators of the amendments that introduced this strict obligation. instead, many pdl colleagues voted against them, that is, they refused to support increased safety and environmental protection measures for shale gas projects. on the other hand, in bucharest, they are hypocritically supporting the cause of the protests against exploration and exploitation, hoping that no one will notice the difference between the official vote in strasbourg and the lying speech at home.
the case of leonarda, a young woman stopped by police forces during a school trip to be repatriated to kosovo, continues to shock the public. at the same time, many roma, many of them european citizens, face discriminatory practices and double standards. generations who witnessed the horrors of the last century hoped that ethnic stigmatization would never be repeated on our continent. but today, in their quest for votes, certain politicians are calling for the expulsion and punishment of the roma population. do we need to remind you that every citizen has the right, guaranteed by the treaty, to move wherever he wants within the european union? has free movement become a right only for those of us who have the status of first-class european citizens? we should ask ourselves where europe is heading. i hope he hasn't forgotten his values.
i would like to congratulate mr tannock on this comprehensive report on this 'no man's land' close to the southern border of the european union. in the sahel, political instability, cross-border conflicts and hunger have chronicled a crisis that benefits terrorist groups and organised crime. the permeability of borders and impunity have turned the sahel into a hub for human, drug and arms trafficking. millions of local people suffer from personal and food insecurity, many in refugee camps. inhuman treatment, summary executions, kidnapping and rape, forced recruitment of children and discrimination against women are a constant of daily life. i support the calls on the commission to step up its already strong effort to avoid a humanitarian and geopolitical catastrophe, but above all i call for the inclusion of the protection of women and the promotion of gender equality in the eu sahel strategy. women are the most affected by the brutal violation of human rights in the sahel.
the reporter. - it gives me great pleasure to present to you today the result of our work over the last year. the report starts from the essential role of local authorities and civil society organisations and highlights their importance at all stages of the sustainable development process. local authorities and civil society organisations need to respond immediately to the needs and rights of poor and marginalised groups in the territory and, above all, to find innovative solutions for the benefit of citizens. the involvement of targeted populations is essential to ensure that the steps taken in development projects contribute to poverty eradication. this is why, for example, i have highlighted the need to work with women's rights organisations in preparing and implementing a political dialogue, in line with the european union's commitments on gender equality. we need an approach to development based on respect for human rights, including the economic and social rights of every person. in this respect, the report supports the promotion of a favourable environment for civil society organisations and local authorities at national level in terms of policy and regulatory provisions, through respect for standards of freedoms, and the initiation of multilateral dialogues. these actions are required to address decent work, sustainable and inclusive growth, with revenue redistribution through the state budget. the report also encourages dialogue between public administrations, local authorities, civil society organisations, the private sector and citizens, based on transparency of official and private aid flows and a participatory approach to assessing the impact of these policies. in this context, we supported the streamlining of tax collection to ensure sustainable development financing and highlighted the role of local authorities and civil society organisations in combating corruption, including tax evasion and illicit financial flows from developing countries. recalling the importance of the contribution of local actors to conflict mediation, i stressed the need to work with partner countries to develop national resilience strategies and specific programmes to address the root causes of long-term vulnerability and to support the empowerment of communities in fragile states through risk reduction activities. we also encouraged the redefinition of guidelines for eu delegations on the role of civil society organisations and local authorities in situations of crisis and fragility, recommending a human rights-based approach. the idea of partnership is a cornerstone of the report, reflected in the cooperation between the european institutions, national and local authorities, and civil society. the report also highlights the usefulness of partnerships between local authorities and civil society organisations in developing countries and their counterparts in european countries, building on the experience of transition in eu member states, as tools that have proven effective in strengthening the capacity of local authorities in key sectors that contribute to poverty eradication. i reiterated the european parliament's concern about the commission's proposal to limit financial support for the provision of services only to civil society organisations in the least developed countries and fragile states. in this respect, i have encouraged the improvement of the participation rate of local authorities in all programmes under the development cooperation instrument. the territorial approach to development and decentralisation are important factors in achieving the poverty eradication objective.
the european union has been and is strongly involved in supporting local authorities in partner countries to strengthen their governance and improve their performance in sustainable development and poverty eradication. a key element is and remains the exchange of experience between local authorities in the union and those in the partner countries, the key role of civil society in the partner countries, and the development of strategic partnerships with national, regional and international associations and networks of local authorities. i believe that a stronger political commitment from the union is needed to support a favourable environment for civil society organisations and local authorities and to strengthen their capacity to mainstream these issues into policies and programmes that are favourable to inclusion and poverty eradication. last but not least, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her approach to this report.
in writing. the economic crisis is generating major difficulties in the member states, ranging from unemployment to social exclusion and poverty. however, statistics show that in some sectors vacancies are hard to fill, with no qualified staff: in communications, information technology or the healthcare sector. the gap between the skills acquired and the actual requirements of the labour market is obvious. against this background, cutting education budgets is making things worse and the chances of success in life for an impressive number of young europeans. i believe that the role of education should be more comprehensive, beyond the goal of imparting knowledge. we need to prepare young people for life, to help them become active citizens in society. in this context, we reaffirm the need to modernise the education systems of the member states, while promoting vocational and technical education more effectively. i support the acquisition of entrepreneurial skills, but also alternative educational methods: work-based learning, open learning, as well as the prospect of free quality education for people in difficulty. in the context of limited budgetary resources, i draw attention to the possibilities offered by the european social fund and the cohesion fund to support investment in education and training, skills and lifelong learning.
the reporter. − in this report we have analysed the effectiveness of the use of pre-accession funds in two areas, judicial reform and the fight against corruption, in candidate and potential candidate countries to the european union. the countries concerned are albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, macedonia, serbia and turkey. we looked at reforms in the judiciary and in the fight against corruption, because these are the essence of the rule of law, and the rule of law is the basis of a democracy and it's the essential condition for a functioning market economy. the judicial system must be completely independent, predictable, efficient and fair, to guarantee that people and the business community have confidence in the justice system. where justice doesn't work, nothing works. the candidate and potential candidate countries need to do more. i'll list a few of them in terms of judicial reform and, in particular, the predictability of the judiciary, which is very important for investors and the business community: - must ensure that the cases are adjudicated in a short time; - it has to unify jurisprudence, because justice and law enforcement are not a lottery, depending on which judge gets your case; - must introduce a random distribution of cases in all courts so that arrangements can be avoided; - must publish all judicial decisions immediately after adoption, and not after a few years; - must present, in the fight against fraud and corruption, concrete cases and results of investigations and judicial decisions. candidate and potential candidate countries must demonstrate that they are prepared to take on the responsibilities of this membership of the union. this means that judicial reforms and the fight against corruption must be completed by the date of accession and all measures implemented. of course we want these to be implemented irreversibly. that is why the chapters 'justice' and 'anti-corruption' are being opened now, the first ones, because the european union has also concluded that they are vital and are also the most difficult. today, i regret that in most of these countries there is a lack of majority political will to implement real change in the fight against corruption and organised crime and for a fully independent and effective judicial system. i also regret that the level of pre-accession assistance invested in judicial reform and anti-corruption measures does not reflect the priorities set by the european commission itself. for example, between 2007 and 2012, €274 million was invested in judicial reform and around €51 million in the fight against corruption in all those states. if we compare the entire pre-accession budget in all areas, they represent only 3.13% in justice and only 0.52% in anti-corruption. obviously, these amounts are not enough. that is why i am calling for substantial changes in these sectors in the ipa ii budget. these investments will also have a positive impact on other sectors and, i repeat, on competitiveness and the economic market. each pre-accession project is based on a fact sheet which sets out the general and specific objectives, the concrete activities, the duration, the costs and the indicators by which the success of the projects is measured. the indicators are not always clear and that is why i ask the commission to continue to detail these indicators, because otherwise we cannot fully assess the effectiveness of the projects. just a few words at the end. i welcome the commission's commitment to participate in the international initiative on... (the president interrupted)
firstly, i consider this report to be a compromise report, but one which is absolutely necessary at the moment. i would like to draw attention to a few extremely important points. one concerns the approval of approval procedures, which is a very cumbersome and difficult process, especially for some new member states of the european union. i think the european commission should focus much more intensively on this and should find common standards for all member states. a second aspect relates to innovation, namely the degree of innovation of appliances in the member states is extremely different. the european union should ensure, through a concrete strategy, that all patients in all member states, regardless of their purchasing power, have access to innovative devices. last but not least, we need to specialize our staff, through effective benchmarking, to transfer knowledge from one state to another. (speaker was interrupted)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − as representative of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to stress the need to take action to address the issue of unpaid commitment appropriations as a necessary precondition to ensure a successful start to the new 2014-2020 programming period, especially given the low level of payment appropriations for rural development in the 2014 draft budget. although the budget for direct payments and market measures under the eagf will be increased by 0,3% in 2014 compared to 2013, practical measures are needed for both commitment and payment appropriations to meet the growing needs related to the progressive introduction of direct payments in the eu-12 and the creation of the fund for crisis management in agriculture. i would like to express my concern about the application of the financial discipline mechanism, which means that for a large number of farmers in the union, a reduction of around 5% will be applied to the level of direct payments for the financial year 2014.
in writing. the achievement of the objectives set by european policies and the smooth functioning of european institutions and mechanisms depend on how the 2014 budget provides the necessary financial resources. however, it is regrettable that the member states have not yet reached agreement in the council to close the resource gap created in 2013. the european union needs this agreement as soon as possible. any delay starts to cause disruption in the implementation of european policies and the functioning of the european institutions and calls into question the entire 2014 budget.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would just like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and support. i put forward the following amendment for insertion: ‘having regard to the resolution adopted by the european parliament on local authorities and development cooperation on 15 march 2007’.
in writing. − i believe that the establishment of a system of exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the stabilisation and association process implemented by the european union is a good omen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. in this context, i believe that the eu institutions should be concerned about the situation created by the imposition by russia of a new embargo on the supply of wine from the republic of moldova. this new embargo, imposed under the pretext of qualitative deficiencies, represents an attempt by russia to compromise the european path of the republic of moldova and to keep it in its sphere of influence. russia is again abusing access to its domestic market for agricultural products, as it does for eu products.
in writing. − i support the proposal for a regulation to strengthen patient safety in in vitro diagnostic medical devices, where parliament has called for the involvement of an ethics committee and introduced provisions on informed consent and genetic counselling. we need tougher rules on genetic testing. it is very important that genetic testing be performed by qualified medical personnel and only after the patient has given informed consent. it is worrying that there are companies offering dna testing online, which is why legislation has been passed to enforce stricter rules in this area.
in writing. − we need to strengthen patient safety at eu level with regard to in vitro diagnostic medical devices (dna, diabetes, hiv, etc.). without a correct diagnosis, we cannot ensure adequate treatment or prevention of disease. the commission has included major improvements to address the current shortcomings of the ivd medical device system. the notified bodies will be substantially improved and the monitoring of notified bodies by the member states will be strengthened. however, a stronger reinforcement of the proposed system will enhance public safety, monitoring and control of the entire certification system. many companies providing in vitro diagnostic medical devices are smes. in its amendments, parliament took account of the capacity and needs of smes and the need to avoid disproportionate, costly and unjustified administrative burdens, but without compromising health and safety. i also think it is essential that parliament should ask for an ethics committee to be involved and for provisions to be introduced on informed consent and genetic counselling, as it is very important that genetic testing be carried out only by qualified medical staff and only after the patient has given his or her informed consent.
in writing. − in light of recent scandals, such as the pip breast implant scandal, we need stricter monitoring, stronger certification bodies and better traceability of medical devices to protect patients. establishing clear obligations for manufacturers and economic operators to comply with, tightening the rules on clinical evaluation, creating an eu portal for reporting serious incidents, improving transparency of patient information and strengthening traceability rules are important steps in this regard. i welcome the proposal adopted today because it has the potential to increase the level of protection of citizens' health, remove obstacles to the internal market and improve transparency in patient information.
in writing. − the role of medical devices in healthcare is crucial and in this context i welcome the proposal to review the existing regulatory framework for medical devices. we need, at european union level, to improve existing legislation and set high standards of quality and safety for medical devices, thus ensuring a high level of health protection for patients, users and operators. the review of the existing regulatory framework will increase the transparency of information for patients and healthcare professionals and strengthen the rules on the information on the source of medical devices, without creating additional burdens for small innovative manufacturers. in today's vote, the european parliament has called for stricter monitoring and certification procedures for breast and hip implant medical devices to ensure compliance and to identify the source of the device. i believe that advertising for cosmetic surgeries such as breast implants should be better regulated to ensure that patients are fully aware of the risks as well as the benefits. clearer responsibilities for the re-use of single-use devices have also been established, as well as a more effective and tailored assessment mechanism for devices at risk.
in writing. − the average age of a ship sent for recycling has varied over time from 26 years in the 1990s to 32 during the financial boom of the mid-2000s, but it is very likely to decline again significantly as a result of the enormous overcapacity and economic crisis. proper ship recycling requires the development of a ship recycling plan based on a correct inventory. such a plan should be approved by the competent authorities. i believe that additional provisions are needed to ensure that recycling and waste treatment are carried out in environmentally safe conditions.
in writing. − the predominant method of dismantling ships through so-called 'deliberate failure' is not a safe and correct method of recycling. ship recycling facilities with low or no standards for the protection of workers, human health and the environment offer the most attractive price for waste vessels. as a result, the vast majority of the world's fleet of ships sent for recycling are dismantled on the beaches of certain countries in human degrading and environmentally hazardous conditions. the european parliament today strongly opposed the extremely dangerous and polluting practices of such a method and believes that we must ensure that old ships under the european flag are only recycled in eu-approved facilities and standards. the establishment of a european list of ship recycling facilities will contribute to the objective of safe and environmentally sound recycling and to better enforcement by facilitating flag state control of ships sent for recycling. the requirements applicable to ship recycling facilities should be based on the hong kong convention but should be broader in order to achieve a level of protection of human health and the environment broadly equivalent to that in the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to impose european standards for the dismantling of ships flying the flag of a member state of the european union. the regulation will require the dismantling of these vessels at yards that meet new environmental and social standards. this is a very positive development and i am pleased with the positive result of the vote on this text, which had previously been agreed between parliament and the member states. it should come into force within two to five years, time for a sufficient number of companies to comply with the standards. this text is a fundamental step forward. end-of-life ships can pose a significant danger and as such should only be dismantled within an oecd country, according to a 1998 regulation. more than 90% of them will die outside the oecd area, often in south-east asia, where their dismantling poses a danger to workers. the new rules will require that ships be dismantled in structures designed, built and operated in a safe and environmentally sound manner, which have been approved by the european union.
in writing. − the eu-27 population is in a progressive ageing process. one way of illustrating this structural change in the eu-27 population is the demographic dependency ratio, which analyses the relationship between the number of elderly people (aged 65 or over) and the working-age population (15-64 years). the population aged 65 and over was equivalent to 25.9% of the working-age population in the eu-27 as of the beginning of 2010. demographic issues are multiplying and playing an increasingly important role in the development of the eu. only when statistical data are available can relevant comparisons be made from which conclusions and directions for action can be drawn. i therefore believe that harmonisation of demographic statistics at european level is necessary to make it easier to compare data.
in writing. − this proposal aims to regulate the provision and harmonisation of demographic data in the member states. this implies the creation of a common framework for the systematic production of european demographic statistics, governing the collection, processing and transmission of demographic statistics as well as statistical data on civil status events. due to the increasingly complex demographic challenges, the need for common legislation at european level on demographic statistics has become evident. in almost every policy area in which the eu is active, whether economic, social or environmental, high-quality demographic statistics are needed to help formulate operational objectives and to assess progress, for example, to make valid comparisons between member states. the proposal aims to harmonise the concepts, topics covered and characteristics of the information required, the coverage, the qualitative criteria, the deadlines and the reporting results, with a view to obtaining relevant, timely, comparable and coherent european statistics. the freedom to choose data sources in accordance with national law and principles, together with the possibility to use statistical estimation methods and techniques, should reduce the financial and administrative burden on respondents, national, regional or local authorities and citizens.
in writing. − the use of common european statistical methods should also be applied in the demographic field and i believe that it will be beneficial for europe if the evaluation of data at european level takes into account local, regional and national databases on demographic trends and there is a permanent exchange of good practices between states, regions and localities. i support the commission's proposal to use the data obtained to create indicators of various types, including 'demographic vulnerability indices', to highlight which european regions are most exposed to demographic change.
in writing. - in order to optimise the data on the european population and to have a general picture that is as true and reliable as possible, i voted in favour of mr sógor's report. the operation of this service will be improved by the inclusion and harmonisation of local (regional and national) databases with the previously collected data. demographic studies are now an important analytical tool, essential for the union and the member states, which can effectively study such data, draw conclusions from them and use the results in order to make targeted and effective operational choices.
in writing. − the lack of unity and consistency of statistical data on demographic developments creates problems for the commission in the development of european union policies, such as cohesion policy, and affects its recommendations on employment. demographic trends are of concern in most regions and call attention to the need for demographic policies with long-term results and for broad economic policies that increase birth rates and regional development. regular monitoring of demographic developments, as well as harmonisation of data and assessment of their quality, are essential in an increasingly globalised europe, where demographic transitions have become an integral part of the process of economic and social development. i therefore believe that a common methodology for the collection of demographic data is needed in order to produce uniform statistics at european level, in accordance with the european statistics code of practice. the more reliable the data provided, the faster eu policies will take effect. thank you!
in writing − the european union (eu) needs to keep an accurate and uniform population count according to the criteria defined by international standards, as does the un. it was a draft document of a technical nature, since the data will be used as the basis for qualified majority voting in the council of the european union as from 1 november 2014, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. in my view, the text of the report, adopted by consensus by the eu institutions and the european parliament (ep) political groups, provides flexibility for member states, as the qualified majority ratio can be determined on the basis of the total population, using scientifically based methods, inter alia, well documented and publicly available. following my suggestion, two new points were incorporated into the text of the document. under these, member states will have feasibility studies carried out and this obligation will not impose a specific financial burden on them, as the union will provide them with support in this area. finally, by means of a review clause, the document guarantees the member states concerned that the adopted statistical method does not create a disadvantage for them: the european commission (ec) is required to carry out a survey every five years and to submit its conclusions to the european parliament (ep) for approval.
in writing. i voted against an amendment to this resolution proposed by the most conservative group in the european parliament. the text was referred back to the parliamentary committee responsible for the subject matter for a second examination. this draft resolution must be defended, as it supports a major step forward at european level for the improvement of sexual and reproductive rights. the current political and economic context is a threat to the rights of europeans and calls for vigilance. the financial and economic crisis has created a trend in member states towards a weakening of the quality and accessibility of sexual and reproductive health services. conservative and reactionary positions on these issues are growing in popularity and are very worrying. for these reasons, i believe that the european parliament must remain firm on the issue of the sexual and reproductive rights of european citizens, because they are their fundamental rights. the text advocates a progressive approach to ensure the reproductive rights of european women and to reverse the conservative trend currently experienced by some member states, and for this reason it should be supported.
in writing. − i voted in support of this report because i agree that the human rights situation in the sahel region is in dire need of assistance. the sahel region faces numerous human rights challenges. the most conspicuous challenges include: slavery and human trafficking, weak and corrupt governance, religious extremism, and crippling poverty. in fact, four of the sahel countries rank among the six least developed countries in the world. the commission estimates that 10.3 million people are at risk of hunger in the sahel region in 2013. the conflict in mali only serves to aggravate the situation by intensifying the already prominent issues in the region as well as creating new problems specific to its own country. for example, unhcr estimates that almost 300 000 people are internally displaced in mali, with an additional 175 000 refugees fleeing to neighbouring countries. however this attention should not be to the detriment of the other chronic and persistent problems. under the cotonou agreement, both the eu and the sahel countries have mutual obligations to protect human rights and democratic principles. a greater focus on human rights is needed.
in writing. − supporting sustainable development, alongside the fight against climate change, is not only an objective of the european union's internal policies, but also a key coordinator of european policy in the world. however, this is impossible to achieve without the creation of legitimate institutional formulas for interaction, and here subsidiarity and legitimate local authorities play a major role in creating the conditions for sustainable development. at the same time, we must bear in mind the commitment that the european union has assumed in its formation and evolution as a promoter of democratic values and principles. this is impossible, however, without supporting local democracy and supporting the creation of an active, critical and engaged civil society in public policy debate or development.
in writing. − establishing responsible, human rights-based and inclusive relationships between public administrations, local authorities, civil society organisations, the private sector and citizens offers the eu, including citizens, local authorities and the private sector, a unique opportunity to forge sustainable partnerships with developing countries. the european commission and the european external action service should integrate the promotion of a supportive environment for civil society organisations and local authorities and consider this as a priority of the eu position in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the post-2015 development framework. the eu should systematically involve women's organisations and networks in the preparation and implementation of political dialogue, in line with the commitments made under the eu action plan on gender equality for development. it is also important to strengthen the expertise of eu staff, especially at delegation level, on decentralisation and the role of civil society organisations and local authorities in sustainable development, and to encourage their participation, including women's organisations, with a view to including a gender perspective in these processes.
in writing. −the existence and development of strategic partnerships between local authorities in eu member states and those in partner countries, as well as with national, regional and international associations and networks of local authorities, will enable eu partners outside the union to strengthen their governance and improve their performance in sustainable development and poverty eradication. i believe that a stronger political commitment from the european union is needed to support a favourable environment for civil society organisations and local authorities and to strengthen their capacity to mainstream these issues into policies and programming that are favourable to inclusion and poverty eradication.
in writing. i would like to welcome the adoption of this report which supports collaboration between local authorities and civil society, in line with the european union's commitment to support sustainable development. this report focuses on the need for better european cooperation between local authorities and civil society. it aims to improve the effectiveness of partnerships between all actors involved in the development of better working conditions, an agenda that supports sustainable and inclusive growth through national budgets, and by promoting the accountability of actors in the sector. the report also provides an opportunity to promote the growing involvement of marginalised groups, such as ethnic minorities, and women's organisations, in social and political dialogue and in policy preparation and implementation. i welcome the inclusion of such references in this report. indeed, they are key factors in the fight to eradicate poverty, eliminate inequalities and discrimination in employment and access to social services, and in the other 'millennium goals'.
in writing. − the relationship between european, national and local institutions must be given new impetus by the eu's initiatives to strengthen the existing network of rules and regulations. not only in the more peripheral areas, but also in the european political geography as a whole, new forms of communication between local authorities and civil society should be found in order to make the participatory process ever more inclusive and strong. in a period of severe economic and social crisis, there is a clear need to intensify and consolidate the consistency of these relations, and the european union as a whole, in conjunction with local and national authorities, can certainly play a leading role in pursuing this path.
in writing. − i welcome the european parliament's motion for a resolution on local authorities and civil society and the overall development approach it proposes. to achieve a sustainable partnership between the european union and its partners in developing countries, we need an institutionalised mechanism for dialogue between public administrations, civil society organisations, local authorities and the private sector. the european commission and the european external action service have an important role to play in the implementation of this mechanism. the added value of decentralised cooperation in the transfer of expertise and good practice from european local authorities to administrations in developing countries is immense. key areas where this partnership can be beneficial include good governance, fiscal decentralisation and sustainable development. i believe that the european union should not discriminate against civil societies in less developed countries, or in fragile countries. civil society plays a key role in all countries, regardless of their level of development.
in writing. − through this report parliament expresses great concern at the crackdown on csos cooperating with eu partners in a number of countries and calls on the commission and the eeas to develop strategies to overcome these difficulties. i want to emphasise the case of the ngos working on democratisation projects in egypt that have been closed down in 2012. these included freedom house, the international center for training of journalists and the konrad adenauer foundation. an egyptian court, after an expeditious trial, has convicted in absentia most of the employees of these ngos to five years in prison. they cannot appeal the verdict without returning to egypt and facing imprisonment. the situation of these ngo workers, three of whom are romanian and german, is very difficult. even if they have not been imprisoned, they are hostages to this conviction and cannot resume their work in the mashreq region for fear they might be extradited to egypt. these people must have a fair trial, the eeas and the commission must consider this as one of their priorities in their relations with the egyptian authorities.
in writing. − civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities are the main building blocks of smart, sustainable and inclusive development, with a view to improving living conditions both within the union and at the level of its partners. i believe that the eu's commitment to promoting a cso-friendly environment at all decision-making levels should be a model of good practice and an incentive for partner countries. moreover, local authorities have the chance to learn both from the exchanges of knowledge, which can definitely help to reduce the development gaps, on the one hand, and from the mistakes of the past of the more developed countries, in order to avoid them in the future. the participation of civil society in this process is essential. the involvement of civil society representatives in the identification and prioritisation stages gives development initiatives the necessary legitimacy. territorial development must take account in particular of the advantages and development characteristics of each region. experience at regional and local level within the eu confirms that decentralised cooperation models, multi-level governance and development partnerships have been effective tools with high added value and measurable results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. local government is the first level of democracy and the views of local communities, expressed through civil society or other forms, must be taken into account. local authorities must be proactive, carry out public consultation and encourage participation in decision-making. in this context, the solutions proposed in this report are welcome and useful.
in writing. − european economies and societies cannot develop without an efficient and effective education system. reducing the school drop-out rate and increasing the number of tertiary education graduates are objectives undertaken by the member states and the european union through the europe 2020 strategy. they are the premises for sustainable development and the building of an inclusive society. at the same time, overcoming many of the social divides is not possible without encouraging and facilitating dialogue between citizens from different regions. the promotion of academic mobility programmes is the instrument that contributes both to the professional development of the beneficiaries and to the intensification of the european integration process. support for educational projects and investment in education is one of the most effective ways in which the european union can contribute to combating unemployment, while at the same time being an investment and a guarantee for the future.
in writing. − in the current economic context, some of the biggest challenges are unemployment and people's ability to make a living. combating unemployment must be the main objective of the european union, and in this area education and training play an important role. in the long term, education and skills development are essential for innovation and economic growth. in the eu, unemployment among young people under 25 reached 23.5% in march 2013 but at the same time over 2 million vacancies could not be filled. this is an obvious consequence of the current situation, where the needs of the labour market are often at odds with the opportunities offered by educational institutions. in the light of the above, i believe that university-enterprise partnerships and work-based learning, as well as the development of better lifelong learning strategies, can provide new impetus for education and training reform.
in writing. − to achieve the main objectives the eu has committed to in the europe 2020 strategy, member states need to increase investment in quality education and training to train and prepare students for the ever-changing demands of the labour market. improving knowledge and skills is key, with member states needing to provide more effective education, focusing on developing creativity, cross-cultural skills (helping students to solve problems, be flexible, be able to adapt to new situations and work in teams and cross-cultural environments), practical entrepreneurial skills and science, technology, engineering and mathematics skills, including for women and from an early age, to eliminate occupational segregation and pay discrimination. public funding of education must be maintained and member states should make better use of the european structural funds and strengthen the involvement of the social partners in vocational education and training and also significantly improve the working conditions of teachers and trainers. at the same time, the commission needs to pursue a more active policy at eu level to achieve the objectives of cross-border mobility of students and workers and the transferability of qualifications.
in writing. − europe faces major challenges on the one hand, the unemployment rate among young people in the european union under the age of 25 exceeded the level of 23% in march 2013, while more than 2 million jobs remain vacant due to a lack of candidates who meet the demands of the labour market. this is partly because many job vacancies require skills that are currently held by too few young people, and partly because the demand for skilled people in fields such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics cannot be met. as such, i support the rapporteur's proposal on the need for university-enterprise partnerships and work-based learning, and the development of better lifelong learning strategies; to be able to identify the right skills for the current context - not only for students and young people entering the labour market, but also for other people who need retraining to improve their personal situation and avoid social exclusion.
we have a report that makes a number of reports on what the wide discrepancies between the education system on the one hand and the globalization system on the other hand mean in the labour market. it seems that neither the european commission nor national governments at the moment understand that they have to adapt education and new labour market requirements to what innovation, research and new employment opportunities mean in the labour market in the european union. that's why i'm asking the european commission directly to introduce a new educational paradigm at the european level through: common school textbooks, a common european timetable and the ability of national governments to take what's good in education systems, especially in the western european union. last but not least, i think it's necessary to make school uniforms compulsory to reduce social disparities. i therefore believe that the commission must intervene as a decisive decision-maker in this respect, make concrete recommendations and monitor national governments in the implementation of these measures.
in writing. − the healthcare sector is a high risk area for patient safety, with patient harm from adverse events associated with healthcare placing a heavy burden on society in this period of economic crisis. prioritizing patient safety has the potential to reduce the cost of treating patients who suffer adverse healthcare events. i believe that, in the context of an ageing european population and the worrying rise in antimicrobial resistance, patient safety, in particular the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections, must be a priority on the political agenda of the european union as well as at national, regional and local level. member states should allocate sufficient resources to improve patient safety in order to reduce the burden of costs of treating illnesses caused by adverse events associated with healthcare.
in writing. − access to safe healthcare is the key to a quality healthcare system and is a fundamental right of european citizens. healthcare is a high-risk area, where adverse events associated with healthcare can cause serious injury, complications or suffering, or even death, to patients under treatment. it is estimated that 30-40% of adverse events associated with medical treatment in both hospitals and outpatient facilities can be prevented. it is estimated that healthcare-associated infections affect an average of 5% of hospital admissions, or 3.2 million people a year, and directly cause 37,000 deaths. patient safety contributes to improving quality of life, but the harm caused to patients by adverse events associated with healthcare is also a heavy burden on society, which is felt even more acutely in this period of economic crisis. in addition to the obvious benefits for patients, any investment in patient safety can also be a potential source of savings.
in writing. − it is currently estimated that 8-12% of patients admitted to hospital in the european union suffer adverse events associated with their treatment, whether these are infections associated with medical care, treatment-related errors, surgical errors, problems with defective or insufficiently decontaminated medical devices, diagnostic errors or lack of intervention following medical examinations. by voting today, the european parliament reaffirmed its growing concern for patient safety and reaffirmed that access to high quality healthcare is a fundamental right recognised by the european union. implementation at member state level of the council recommendations aimed at improving overall patient safety and reducing the incidence of healthcare-associated infections as a priority has yielded results, but i believe that efforts in this regard need to be further intensified as it is essential to maintain citizens' trust in the health systems of the european union. i believe that the focus should be on actions to promote research in the field of patient safety, based on an applied approach, grounded in conclusive data and focusing in particular on alternative therapies to the use of antibiotics and on the management of antibiotic resistance.
in writing. − i believe that member states should focus their efforts on improving patient safety and implement additional measures, including the establishment of action plans to combat healthcare-associated infections.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr rossi's report because it has the merit of addressing the issue of the safety of the health system by highlighting the need for adequate training of health personnel and the allocation of adequate resources to ensure a quality service. the statistics on deaths and/or illnesses caused by inadequate safety conditions in hospital settings are worrying. i therefore believe that it is essential to take concrete action to solve the problem by improving the training of staff and, above all, by calling on the member states to allocate adequate resources. these are needs which have been fully recognised in this report, which has found a large majority in the house.
in writing. − a considerable proportion of hospitalized patients in the european union (8-12%) are victims of misdiagnosis and mismanagement. moreover, the number of elderly people who are receiving medical treatment without proper management is increasing because of a lack of specialized information or a failure to communicate it effectively. health costs to patients and health care providers can be avoided by careful health care that requires preventive treatment measures. pressure must be put on member states and local authorities to standardise the necessary requirements and to combat hai. ) thus, the council's recommendation to promote medical education among patients is welcome, to ensure their protection, perhaps even against harmful advice from medical staff. however, the best solution to protect patients and limit the costs of mci is to establish a common information system for patients and healthcare professionals who can speak the same language. thank you!
in writing. − according to recent statistics, in the european union, the financial losses caused by fraudulent marketing practices are estimated at several billion euros per year, with small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises being the main victims. although efforts have been made in recent years, both at the level of the european commission and at the level of the member states, to mitigate the serious consequences of these practices, further action is needed to counter the negative impact on economic growth. the report voted today calls on the commission to clarify the scope of the current legislative framework in this area, namely the directive on misleading and comparative advertising. the evaluations carried out on the transposition of this directive show that this legislative instrument is lacking in several respects and that an amendment is therefore necessary. as regards action at member state level, the european parliament stressed the importance of closer cooperation between national authorities and service providers. the member states were also invited to propose and promote a series of education and information initiatives to ensure that citizens and economic operators are made aware of the danger posed by these deceptive commercial practices.
in writing. − there is a clear demand from businesses, in particular smes and micro-enterprises, for better protection and effective action against fraudulent practices in a context of business-to-business relations that falls outside the scope of directive 2005/29/ec. smes, and in particular small and micro enterprises, are the main victims of deceptive marketing practices. schools, churches, hospitals, ngos and local governments, as well as other public authorities, are also targeted. thus, the investigation and prosecution of deceptive marketing practices needs to be improved, with the commission to develop guidelines for national law enforcement bodies on best practices related to investigative and prosecution priorities. member states should stimulate the capacity and expertise of investigating bodies and competent judicial authorities. it is essential that national law enforcement authorities cooperate more closely with providers whose services are used by fraudulent marketers, such as banks, telephone companies, postal services and collection agencies, in particular by enhancing the exchange of information, in order to help prevent dishonest companies from operating.
in writing. - as is well known, deceptive marketing practices can take many forms, often difficult to detect and counter. in fact, deceptive advertising has spread its tentacles everywhere, from traditional to more modern means of communication, through personal contact, through dishonest methods. the protection of the business world against deceptive advertising practices therefore requires a strict implementation of the control and prevention system and, on the other hand, a legislative system which can be as uniform as possible between european countries, so as to avoid disparities in treatment or to offer possible loopholes to those who engage in such practices that are elusive of the correct way of communicating their advertising proposal.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on misleading advertising practices is welcomed to limit, if not stop, this phenomenon, which does not bring any benefit to the european economy. it is welcome that this resolution complements directives 2006/114/ec and 2005/29/ec, especially given the different ways in which they have been transposed by the member states. to protect smes and micro-enterprises, which are at the heart of the european economy, we need a clear and unified legislative framework, but also a better exchange of information between member states, which is why i believe that the operation of national contact points can be beneficial. i welcome the commission's intention to draw up a blacklist of fraudulent practices, including a list of companies that have been convicted on several occasions for such practices. i also think that more effort is needed, especially in terms of law enforcement.
corruption undermines democracy and the market economy. corruption distorts competition, raises the price of the products we buy. corruption reduces investment, reduces public funding, and as a result, people have less money for their needs. corruption is making us poor. in one year alone, in eight member states and five areas, the direct costs of corruption in public procurement, excluding bribery, were around two billion euros. how many schools, hospitals, roads could we build with that money? corruption also kills the rules and creates another reality, an illegal and crooked reality, because if the mayor, the minister, the customs officer, any other official takes money, he will issue a crooked decision and, as such, will create another reality. that's why i say corruption undermines democracy. the crim report we're debating today is just the beginning in the fight against serious crime. of course we want to win this fight. we have made a list of recommendations in the report, and they have to be implemented at both european and national level by each member state. as the rapporteur of the parliament for the directive on the confiscation of the proceeds of crime, i insist that it is much more effective to take the money from criminal activities and stop this dirty money from circulating freely than to send three, four, five people to prison if we do not take the money that continues to produce organized crime. finally, i would like to know when the anti-corruption report will be adopted by the commission and i will make it very clear: we expect a serious report with extremely consistent content.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr iacolino on his report. the text is an opportunity to send a strong signal in the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. this text concerns the interests of european citizens. corruption and organised crime are serious violations of fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of movement and to privacy. they have serious consequences for the lives of thousands of victims. corruption and organized crime are also major economic problems that cause large financial losses. this battle must be a priority in these times of crisis. it is necessary to adopt a european approach in order to organise a coherent legislative and legal framework. this report is part of that dynamic and should be welcomed.
mr president, i want to express today in this plenary three feelings: appreciation, anger and disappointment. i appreciate the constant support that this house has shown to freedom of movement, and i especially appreciate the constant support for romania’s and bulgaria’s bid to join schengen. we all know that, technically, those two countries have deserved to be inside the schengen area for years now, but it has proved too good an electoral campaign theme to be passed up. i am angry at all the european politicians and parties and governments which, abusing the natural fears of their citizens due to the financial crisis, have talked about romanians and bulgarian preparing to come in huge numbers in 2014 to steal jobs and abuse the welfare systems of the host countries. what a lie. as for my disappointment, that is for the commission, which should have done more to lay to rest the nationalistic angle that now makes life difficult for many romanians and bulgarians living in other eu member states. my country, romania, may not enter schengen in 2014 due to political games, but our freedom of work will finally be equal to that of all the other eu citizens, and i will fight with all my strength to keep it that way.
mr president, i would like first to thank commissioner andor for his intervention. intra-eu mobility contributes to addressing the job mismatch and helps to even out the eu’s demographic deficit. figures show that mobile eu citizens are more likely to be of working age and more economically active than nationals. they contribute their fair share to national social security schemes. we should not let ourselves be distracted by populist speeches which create fallacious links between mobility and supposed burdens on social benefits systems. from january 2014, labour restrictions currently imposed by ten eu member states on eu citizens from romania and bulgaria will finally be lifted, and citizens from those two countries will be able to enjoy fully their right to free movement. recent studies have shown that the enlargement did not bring about any dramatic changes in immigration flows across europe. they show that mobile eu workers are net contributors to the public purse and that they tend to work in jobs where there are severe labour shortages. however, despite the crisis, the eu is faced with two million unfilled vacancies. it shows that we should keep fighting in order to ensure better matching between labour demand and supply across europe. free movement is a key factor in tackling this situation.
member of the commission. − mr president, in recent years the commission has been exploring the question of the relationship between free movement in the european union, the freedom to work in other eu countries and access to various social benefits. we have had a long dialogue, in particular with the government of the united kingdom, and in recent years we have looked into the question of increased concerns about migrating poor people, whether it is in germany, the netherlands or other countries. what i can say is that we now have a huge amount of statistics which help us to understand what exactly is happening in the member states. this supports the commission’s position, namely that there is no widespread or systematic benefit tourism in the european union. but what we also know is that we have to look behind the statistics, because it is not enough to discuss average figures, total sums or the various trends. we also need to look into individual lives. in many cases, these are people who need to find a livelihood in another country because the domestic situation is very difficult. but fundamentally, this discussion today has been about rights. we have to be very clear about what eu law allows or demands in the current context. this also needs to be clarified. for example, contrary to what mrs bizzotto said, the commission does not simply want eu citizens to move from one country to another but to have the right to move and to work in another country to be sustained and respected, together with the rights that this implies. these rights must be respected – not challenged or violated. there are also other kinds of misunderstanding, partly because of the lack of information about what the eu law says on particular issues. for example, it is a very common misunderstanding to assume that eu law would require any country to provide social benefits from day one – for example, when someone arrives in dover or any other border station. in fact, under eu law, the host countries in the eu are not obliged to grant social assistance to non-economically active eu citizens during the first three months of residence. we could look, item by item, into the specific conditions in eu legislation in order to clarify the picture, because in many cases there are examples of misinformation in the public discourse. to mr farage, i would say that it is not the individual commissioners who have to have the power but eu law which has to be powerful. eu law has to be applied in all member states. we have the responsibility to defend eu law, both in the united kingdom and in other countries. we are defending the rights of mobile eu workers in the uk, but we are also defending the rights of uk citizens when they go to other countries. for example, in spain there are 162 000 economically non-active british citizens, and when there is any kind of concern, who defends their rights? it is the commission which defends the rights of uk citizens. the most recent example of this was when we launched an infringement case in may. the commissioner requested information from spain about complaints – many of them received from uk citizens – because spanish hospitals providing public health care were refusing to recognise the european health insurance card. the commission did what the commission is supposed to do in such situations. clarifications about eu law are very important, also because eu law differentiates between eu workers and, on a temporary basis, there are different conditions for eu workers from new member states until unilateral distinctions expire. the situation of third-country nationals is also different, but sometimes the public discourse does not differentiate between them. for example, in the uk they do not take note of the fact that in recent years, net immigration was three times more than the net inward mobility from eu countries. very often, the discussion focuses on a smaller group rather than seeing the whole picture. i will not even mention eu posted workers, which is again a specific category. in order to clarify this very precisely and to ensure that it is properly implemented on the ground, the commission has launched two enforcement directives which are also before parliament and the council – one concerns the so-called eu migrants, the mobile workers, and the other the posted workers – in order to ensure that workers do not suffer abuse, either by nationals or foreigners, and that the system is not abused either by nationals or foreigners in individual member states. at the end of the day, what should also be discussed – and perhaps decided on – is what exactly the problem is. what do we have too much of in the eu – especially when some countries, as participants in this discussion have mentioned, have so-called ‘poverty migration’? is there too much poverty or too much migration? i am convinced that in the european union, there is not too much mobility. we have to expect and anticipate more mobility – hopefully more balanced mobility – but we have too much poverty. we have to do a lot more to combat poverty. we need more cooperation and more solidarity in the european union in order to tackle poverty and social exclusion. this is what i also want to emphasise to mrs weber. romania should not only fight for others to respect free movement but also do better with the absorption of eu funds, which are supposed to promote economic and social development. for example, the integration of the roma should also be supported in romania and other countries by using the european social fund and other financial instruments for better education and employment opportunities and other purposes. so, while the focus today is on rights, the subject obviously concerns not only rights but also economic development, job creation and the youth guarantee, which is a very important instrument of structural reform in order to ensure that young people also see opportunities in their own region, in their own country and not only elsewhere. if they prefer to look around elsewhere to find jobs and employment, they should have that right, and that right has to be respected. we have to expect more mobility, not least because we want to boost student mobility – mobility of learning in the european union – and that will in time lead to more professional mobility as well. but i am speaking about balanced mobility – not a flood, not an influx and not a repeat of previous experiences when, in the case of previous enlargement, there was a short period with large numbers of mobile workers coming to individual countries. why did this happen? because countries did not open up simultaneously, and then accession brought new opportunities. this will not be repeated. it has already happened with countries where there was a high potential for outward migration. that applies to poland, the baltic states and romania. but as far as romania and bulgaria are concerned, two thirds of those who left romania and bulgaria – and this was more than ten percent of the workforce in both countries – went to spain and italy, rather than the united kingdom or denmark. i believe this discussion today has been extremely helpful in clarifying the specific situations we are facing. if we are talking about poverty, we have to do more against it. if crime is the concern, of course the answer should not be the restriction of free movement or of the right to work in another country but more eu cooperation between the member states in the area of justice and law and order. this can certainly resolve some of the problems that have been observed recently.
in writing. union policies must necessarily be adapted to situations requiring emergency measures or aimed at restoring social and economic equilibrium. we must not forget, however, that the european union has developed as an area of freedom and that the freedom of movement of european citizens is an important point in this respect. any action taken in this area must seriously consider the risks that changes to the mobility arrangements may bring. it is clear that the issue of public assistance systems and their reliability is a matter of legitimate concern to many european citizens. but we must bear in mind that the union has been committed almost from its foundation to promoting a cohesion-centred model of sustainable development. at the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that the mobility of european citizens is probably the most dynamic element that contributes to the amplification of the integration process and to the creation of an effective european identity.
in writing. the mobility of european citizens is not only a fundamental freedom of the eu, but also a desired goal of the european institutions. the economic crisis and the level of unemployment in many member states have put pressure on social protection systems. citizens who have chosen to settle in another state should not be scapegoats for some of the more complex issues related to the sustainability of the welfare state in western societies. unfortunately, populist parties are exploiting social tensions and trying to scare citizens by exaggerating the impact of the lifting of labour market restrictions for romanians and bulgarians in 2014, hoping to gain more votes. i would like to point out that romanians and bulgarians have been able to work in other countries until now, provided they have obtained a work permit. so a lot of people who wanted to work in the eu are already doing so, which is why the fears of mass migration are fantasies. i would remind those who are strongly opposed to the removal of restrictions that this is neither more nor less than what the member states have unanimously agreed in the treaty of accession. romanians and bulgarians have a legitimate right to enjoy the same freedoms as other eu citizens.
i agree with mr. brok. stability and democracy in the european union's neighbourhood mean the security of the union. if we look at it with any lucidity, i don't think we're in complete security in this european space, at least if we look at the southern flank. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the vilnius summit will be a success, because it would not be a success of the european union's foreign policy - which is so delicate, so questionable, so short-sighted - but a success of the union, which will enable us to consolidate ourselves as a viable global player. i would not wish st petersburg to succeed, however, because that would mean further weakening of the european union. i wish for st petersburg, i wish for ukraine, i wish for georgia, i wish for moldova, which must come closer to europe, i wish for the eastern neighbourhood to guarantee and not just discuss the security and territorial integrity of our eastern partnership partners. i certainly hope that north africa, where the union for the mediterranean is a global failure of our foreign policy, will start to be viable. if we want to be global players in a changing world, we're going to have to be global players, not lecturing, not giving seminars, not acting like a teacher who demands from others what she can't provide within herself.
in writing. – kremlin's 'open arms' strategy towards the eu-russia common neighbourhood demonstrates that, unlike the eu and its conditionalities, russia does understand the geo-strategic character of the game and is willing to play it. this could restore old division lines in europe. therefore, eu must urgently reorient its eastern neighbourhood approach and the vilnius summit must consecrate the beginning of this necessary change. this includes most importantly the signing of the association agreement with ukraine without preliminary conditions. likewise, the initialling of the agreements with moldova and georgia and the adoption of a declaration on the basis of a strategic partnership with azerbaijan. starting from the geo-strategic reality created by those deeds, the summit could and should also offer russia a new strategic partnership with the aim of creating a common space of security, justice, liberty and prosperity from gibraltar to bering. thus, the vilnius summit will have long-term consequences testing the effectiveness of the eu eastern neighbourhood policy. missing this opportunity and especially the signing of the association agreement with ukraine will discredit the eu as a relevant international player and will also put in jeopardy the promotion of the eu values and the security of its citizens.
i would like to highlight some of the very important elements of this report. first of all, the important role of coastal and small-scale fishing, which is essential for the inhabitants of coastal areas. small-scale fishing is often the only source of income for people in many localities. in this context, the need to allow the renewal and modernisation of the european fleet, half of which is already a quarter of a century old, must be recognised. this much-criticized amendment is in fact a very balanced and rational one. i also welcome the important role played by the aquaculture sector, a sector which can provide food for europeans, both producers and, above all, consumers.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank ms patrão neves for her report and all the members of parliament who have contributed. this report is also important for us, because these efforts show that what we are doing in respect of our ‘marine knowledge’ initiative and seabed mapping is very important. it is important for three reasons. firstly, it will reduce the cost of what we are doing already. if we know the situation better, we can reduce the cost. secondly, it will promote innovation; and thirdly, it can also enable us to reduce uncertainties in our knowledge of the sea, which is very important for investors and for taking advantage of all marine resources. i would also like to inform you that we are now undertaking an impact assessment to determine options for achieving the objectives set out in the report by ms neves. in particular, we aim to see how best we can bring in the private sector, how we can set up a process for each marine basin, as ms neves underlined, and how we can create a seamless package out of all these marine basin strategies. i would also like to inform you that we are going to introduce a policy paper in the first half of 2014 on innovation in the blue economy that will incorporate the results of this impact assessment.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers. it is obvious that what mrs patrão neves says in her report is the real truth. we have a great potential which we can unleash, and in order to unleash it we have to know what lies beneath – what is there in our seabeds. this can give us opportunities for new growth and jobs, and in the middle of the crisis this is a very good and positive message.
in writing. in its green paper on marine knowledge 2020, the commission recognises that europe's seas are not managed by eu member states alone. he even gives this example: "understanding the ecological health of the black sea ...requires cooperation with the neighboring countries that share these sea basins". given that these countries are often reluctant to cooperate, i would ask the commissioner to develop the subject of cooperation with third countries, not only in relation to the subject under discussion today, but also in relation to the management of fisheries resources, a subject which is often a source of dispute. so what steps have been taken in this mandate, which is coming to an end, to improve cooperation with third countries, and what is next?
in writing. the european council of 24-25 october 2013 will have three main themes: 1. digital economy, innovation and services; 2. growth, competitiveness and jobs; 3. economic and monetary union. we call on the council to provide the necessary funds in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework to boost the digital economy, innovation, increase competitiveness and combat unemployment, especially among young people. we call on the heads of state or government to ensure that the budget allocated to the connecting europe facility, the ict component, is restored to the level originally proposed by the commission. investments in infrastructure and ict services financed through the connecting europe facility are essential both for the eu's competitiveness and for the union's economic recovery. these investments are both a necessity for the modernisation and competitiveness of many european industries and a job-saving measure. the creation of these jobs could particularly benefit young people, as the new generations have the skills to use ict in different fields. furthermore, as the trust of european citizens and businesses in ict tools is essential for the development of the digital economy, we draw attention to the need for strong measures at european level to protect data and ensure the security of networks and data.
in writing. the european semester was designed to coordinate member states' efforts to formulate and implement policies for growth and job creation. in the framework of the european commission's 2013 recommendations, all member states received suggestions on the level of labour market participation. unfortunately, the number of unemployed in the european union, especially among young people, is increasing year by year. as regards romania, the youth unemployment rate was 22,7% in 2012. at the same time, according to the latest available statistics, 40.3% of the romanian population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion, compared to the european average of 24.2%. in this context, i would like to advocate european funding that contributes to combating unemployment and social exclusion and, by implication, to overcoming the social and economic disparities between member states.
in writing. − although used in a number of industries, such as pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, etc., drug precursors can also be used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, substances used to manufacture medicines for various conditions such as colds and allergies, are constantly being diverted by drug traffickers from the legal trade to manufacture narcotics. the mechanisms for the control of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine provided for in the regulation on the monitoring of trade in drug precursors between the community and third countries are not sufficient. it was therefore necessary to amend the provisions of the current regulation in order to improve the control of those substances and to maintain the free movement of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine for legitimate purposes between the union and third countries. the first reading agreement voted by the european parliament today will help to reduce the number of attempts to divert medicines containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine for illegal purposes. due to the improvement of the existing european legislative framework, the competent authorities of the member states will no longer have to rely on different national laws, where they exist, to intercept or confiscate such products.
in writing. − the present revision proposal aims primarily at closing a legal loophole in council regulation (ec) no 111/2005 laying down rules for the monitoring of trade in drug precursors between the eu and third countries. until now, medicinal products have always been excluded from the scope of the regulation. unfortunately, drugs containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, used to treat colds, flu symptoms or allergies, are diverted to synthesize methamphetamine. due to the exclusion of medicinal products from the scope of the regulation, member states face difficulties in confiscating or intercepting consignments of medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine which are clearly to be diverted. for this reason, the european commission decided to include medicinal products containing ephedrine and pseudoephedrine in the regulation. the competent authorities of the member states should be empowered to intercept or confiscate such products where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that they are intended for the illicit manufacture of drugs when exported, imported or in transit.
in writing. − developments in the european union drug markets in recent years have required a revision of regulation (ec) no 273/2004 on drug precursors, in particular the provisions relating to the use of a substance called acetic anhydride (aa), which is legally used in the manufacture of perfumes, plastics and colours, but is also the main precursor to heroin. the measures proposed by the european commission and supported by both the european parliament and the council of the eu aim at better monitoring of trade in acetic anhydride (aa) and strengthening the rules on registration of this substance. the adoption of this agreement at first reading is welcome, as it will help to combat illicit drug trafficking and prevent and reduce attempts at diversion on the eu internal market, thus limiting the quantities of substances that are diverted to be used for the production of illicit drugs, specifically heroin.
in writing. − the amendments proposed to the commission regulation on drug precursors, notably acetic anhydride, make great strides toward further diminishing the presence of heroin in the member states. according to a report produced by europol earlier this year, three-quarters of drug-related deaths in europe can be linked to opioids or a combination thereof. increased cooperation and information exchange between countries and organisations have achieved significant success. the united nations office on drugs and crime convened operation tarcet in 2008 to, among other things, ‘…focus on information collection and sharing, risk profiling and analysis, and joint precursor control operations…’. under the guidance of this operation, regional authorities in central asia made numerous sizable seizures upwards of 19 tonnes of acetic anhydride, the most important precursor in heroin production. though the european market for heroin has steadily been declining over the past decade, deaths and treatment costs have remained a significant burden. by establishing more effective data parameters to optimise member state and institutional cooperation, these amendments will facilitate the further reduction in illicit drug precursor manufacturing and sales, thereby disrupting heroin markets across europe.
in writing. − improving access to justice, cooperation between judicial authorities and the effectiveness of the judiciary are key elements in the development and strengthening of the european judicial area. the introduction of information and communication technology (ict) in the administration of justice offers solutions to improve the functioning of justice, while contributing to both simplifying procedures and reducing costs. the development of e-justice is a key element of the modernisation of judicial systems. in recent years, important steps have been taken in this area, both through the launch of the e-justice portal in 2010 and through the development of tools facilitating the use of information systems in the field of justice, such as the schengen information system sis ii. the resolution voted today underlines the importance of continuing the sustained efforts made in this area by both the european commission and the member states. improving the efficiency of the judiciary and facilitating citizens' access to justice are the main objectives that the commission should consider when drawing up the future e-justice action plan for 2014-2018.
in writing. − launched in 2010, the e-justice portal needs an action plan for 2014-2018. all member states should be encouraged to participate in this action. this will facilitate open access to the use of certain eu instruments, such as the european order for payment and the european small claims procedure, as well as information systems in the field of justice and home affairs, in particular the european criminal records information system (ecris) and the schengen information system (sis) ii. e-justice systems will reduce the costs of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents, in the interest of all parties in the judicial system. the provision of multilingual standard forms will thus help to reduce cross-border red tape.
in writing. − as the e-justice portal was launched in 2010, the time has come to decide on the e-justice action plan 2014-2018. the e-justice is a means of enabling increased access to legal and judicial information, as well as to judicial and administrative procedures, for both citizens and practitioners. e-justice systems tend to reduce the costs of judicial and administrative procedures, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of certain procedural documents. this is in the interest of all stakeholders in the judiciary and, taking into account cost-effectiveness considerations, projects should remain voluntary. the eu justice programme 2014-2020 should allow for the funding of successful european and national e-justice projects that should have a real european added value for citizens. legislative work, e-justice projects and financial programming should be streamlined and it is also important to provide standard multilingual forms to reduce cross-border red tape.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, today the eu is in a situation which is similar to that of the british cabinet when churchill told its members: ‘gentlemen, we have run out of money; now we must think’. that is exactly what mr brok’s report is trying to make us do: pause a little and reflect, trying to instil some order in the multitude of challenges and opportunities confronting us today. the report is correct in stating that a new world order, based on a new distribution of power, is in the making. the problem is whether we will shape it or will be shaped by it – in other words, whether it will be based on our values or on somebody else’s values. equally, the report is asking for a new and credible eu foreign policy provided, on the one hand, that we can rise above the mundane daily business making up the current substance of the eu’s external relations and, on the other hand, that it reflects truly european, not simply national strategic objectives dressed up as european interests. those truly european interests are based on relative or even similar perceptions of reality which, if they exist, facilitate the political will to act which we so often complain is lacking today. a strategic dialogue involving the council, the commission and parliament, as well as the request, formulated in the report, that the high representative / vice-president should present her foreign policy objectives for 2014 and 2015 in the next annual report, are conducive to that aim. to that effect, the report indicates specific strategies such as strengthening cooperation, particularly with regard to policies having transnational implications, and strategic policy coordination in international bodies. naturally, the cfsp and csdp get proper attention in the report. in that respect, proposals advanced by parliament in previous reports, such as common funding and more transparency in the way money is spent on operations; more effort on the part of the member states in developing and implementing the csdp; strengthening the european industrial and technological base; and more democratic scrutiny involvement of parliament, are reiterated in the report. another contribution, which is also a step forward, is the report’s recommendation that european defence should be firmly based on the revised european security strategy and a white book which should serve as a common template for concurrent national security and defence reviews – this being, after all, the case in all member states. in conclusion – apart from congratulating the rapporteur – i would point to the very good communication and cooperation of the author with the shadow rapporteurs and his willingness to accommodate as many views as possible and find common ground between them.
mr president, beside all the good things that i could mention, let me say that the european union foreign and security policy is held hostage by the dilemma of choosing between values and geostrategy. this is a false dilemma, since values are a dimension of power and part of the geopolitical endeavour. eu interests are best protected in areas and with partners sharing the same values. however, the promotion of eu values must not be done at the expense of geopolitical interests, and vice versa. both are about the security of european citizens. the real problem lies in our failure to understand that our values cannot prevail until we prevail in the geostrategic race. this does not mean that we should abandon our values for the sake of a geostrategic rationale. it means that first we have to create a security framework for those values to grow. the prevalence we currently give to our values does not reflect our attachment to them but our ineffectiveness in defining our geostrategic identity and therefore our long-term interest and geopolitical goals. we are fighting an elusive crusade that gives us a false impression that we are imposing our model around the world while disguising the real reactive character of our external action. you must overcome this messiah complex and stop behaving as a global secular priesthood. likewise, we must admit that the more-for-more approach does not function when the countries concerned have geopolitical or geo-economic alternatives. a foreign policy without strategic goals is a vehicle going nowhere. like alice in wonderland, we fool ourselves that if we do not know the destination, all roads will lead us there. if we do not change that, we will condemn ourselves to irrelevance. a soft power, yes; but a soft power with vision and teeth. this is what we need to be.
madam high representative, there is no doubt that your statement and mr brok's report are two documents full of positive ideas, which attempt a strategic vision and this is positive for our common defence and security policy. we all agree to talk - and we really like this - about more europe, but the level at which we have now reached in having a common foreign and security policy proves that we are far from having more europe. but unfortunately, if we look strictly at the security system and at what is happening in the member states' approaches to common policy, we have less europe, because beyond the strategies, beyond the value of the ideas we promote, we have a reality that does not support us in the implementation of a common defence and security policy. we have a major challenge at the vilnius summit and, as i said yesterday, i hope that mr putin will not have another success like that of st petersburg but that we will prove that we are motivated to support the union's projects. we have a turbulent north africa, which we have tried to engage in, but the results are clear: we have a failed union for the mediterranean, we have a central asia that ignores us, we have an africa dominated by other powers. as such, i think it is time to move from what is wonderful on paper to a strategy that makes us work together in a common defence and security policy. i think that member states need to understand that this is not the time for individualism, this is not the time for individual decisions, because only together can we be relevant in a game of global security and defence. what has happened, for example, in libya, the common repository of material is a small project that will succeed and, in my opinion, this is the kind of project that we need to start from, because it is vital for the union to expand what is called the concept of soft power".
the report on the common foreign and security policy is very important to our parliament every year, but i would say that this year it has a special significance. i am thinking, of course, of the prospect of european elections next year and also of the political context in which the consensus on the european project seems to be fragile. that is why, i believe, a clear vision of the role the union must play in the world is needed. i would like to congratulate my colleague, elmar brok, on his report to the afet committee. it is a report which succeeds in proposing, beyond concrete recommendations, such a vision for a more coherent external action. it is indeed important for the european citizens, as other colleagues have said, that the union should defend their interests in a determined, united way, basing its policies on the promotion of the values we have assumed. for this to be a reality, of course, more resources are needed than at present and i can only regret the reduction of the multiannual financial framework in this context. the idea of concentric circles of peace, security and development, embodied in the union's strategic partnerships, is an essential component of this vision of europe's role in the world. but here, i think, we need more coherence and involvement of parliament in the decision-making on future partnerships. in addition to the enlargement objective, which remains ever relevant, i support the idea that the union should commit itself more towards the european neighbourhood policy. our determination to support our neighbours is being tested by political developments in some of them. that is why we must reward countries that are making positive developments, such as moldova in the eastern neighbourhood, and make a successful transition to sustainable democracy a priority for the southern neighbourhood.
in writing. the concept of the comprehensive approach, as articulated by the high representative, must be given as well-defined content as possible. i agree that this can be done through a broad debate with the european parliament. the eu has significant potential in managing global issues in a changing world. we need to find the best tools to be able to influence things that are of our common interest. the military and security dimension must be adapted to new challenges and extended. we need a stronger reaction to actions such as wiretaps and illegal intelligence gathering concerning the union and member states. i agree with the authors of the report, who call for an active, not reactive, foreign policy, a greater involvement in solving important problems. cases such as the facilitation of relations between serbia and kosovo demonstrate the virtues of action. the eastern dimension of the common foreign policy must remain a priority, alongside the open door policy. the union's immediate neighbourhood is critical in many ways. another issue that may need to be kept under control is illegal immigration. the recurring tragedies around lampedusa remind us of our duty to these people who risk their lives for a better life.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, this report, as voted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, together with the additional amendments tabled for the plenary, aimed to considerably improve the protection of workers and the general public against ionising radiation. i support the establishment of lower dose limits, both for the public and for workers. i think it is necessary to reduce as far as possible radiation-related deaths and illnesses in the nuclear industry. it is hard to find the right balance between economic benefits and public safety but, in this case, i consider that we have managed to reach a good position. in this regard, the proposed amendment aims to better protect the workers who are most affected by the radiation, not to mention the fact that in most cases they are also people with lower incomes than others in the field and that they therefore have restricted access to medical support. in my opinion, the proposed limits are acceptable, given the risk and the long-term effects ionising radiation has on health. we had a very good result in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and managed to obtain a very good legislative resolution that strengthens the commission proposal, improving the definitions and the general protection against exposure to ionising radiation. we managed to retain the chapter on environmental protection and the change in the legal basis from the euratom treaty to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i consider that, in spite of the opposition to changing the legal basis, we have to take into consideration the importance of parliament having a say when it comes to the protection of workers and the general public from ionising radiation and, therefore, the protection of human health. i really hope that, through your vote tomorrow, you will give us your support so as not to lose any of these achievements.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work on this dossier. the new environment 2020 plan aims to transition to a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy that protects natural capital. the new agreement on the reform of the common agricultural policy contains elements that are moving european agriculture in a very good direction in this respect first of all, more equity and more care for the environment. a 30% share of the amount allocated to each member state under the rural development programme will be mandatory for agri-environment measures. i would like to highlight in particular the important role that agriculture and forests play in mitigating climate change by absorbing and storing carbon. research and innovation are also crucial to unlocking this potential. direct payments are also conditional on compliance with three 'greening' measures, i.e. ensuring that european agriculture is more sustainable. at the same time, i would also like to highlight the very important role of short supply chains and local markets for agricultural products. they guarantee fresher, healthier food, support the development of local communities and, at the same time, can significantly reduce carbon emissions from food transport. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate the need to make reducing food waste a priority in the coming period. i hope that these are not just percentages on paper, and by the year 2020, i wish we could say that we have accomplished everything that we set out to do.
in writing. for the european union to achieve its objectives under the 'a good life, within the limits of our planet' programme, it is important to strike a fair balance between the need to combat climate change and environmental programmes. it is also important to maintain a balanced relationship between man and nature, given the pressure on natural resources, the degradation of ecosystems, energy consumption, pollution, waste, health risks or climate change. i therefore believe that we need to reconcile economic activity and environmental protection around the concept of sustainable development. through its new environment action programme, the union can send a clear environmental message to its citizens and to the rest of the world, contributing to a new european green order by 2020 that generates 'green' growth and creates jobs.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms trautmann, on her excellent report and on a fruitful discussion ahead of the commission’s proposal. as a liberal, i warmly welcome the objective of the commission proposal. borders make no sense in relation to electronic communication, and we need – soon – to overcome the status quo of 28 national markets. time is moving on, and we need measures to promote growth and jobs. the ict sector is certainly one that drives our economy forward, but we have to do things right: healthy policy-making can promote investment, competition and growth, but it can also severely damage the sector if we do not work properly. while all of us agree on the goals pursued in this regulation – an end to roaming charges, net neutrality, a single european authorisation, improved consumer protection – we should also ensure that we are sending the right message to the industry and to consumers. part of our work must be to respond to any fears or expectations that may be voiced about predictability. the current european competition model has proved efficient: it has created many jobs and businesses and promoted growth. it can be further improved through this new package only if we succeed in adding the necessary key performance drivers, which will restart investment in this important area of economic activity. we must promote the creation of a single telecom market and eu competitiveness at global level, but we cannot afford to create distortions in such a sensitive market. if we want to change the paradigm of the eu pro-competition model, we should not go about it in a rush. we need proper democratic debate, among ourselves and with the council, and we need to draft a coherent piece of legislation. therefore, i invite my colleagues to take their time, to have discussions, to consult the stakeholders and to make sure that the parliamentary outcome will be a solid one that reassures all parties as to our intentions and our means. as we know, good intentions are not always enough.
building on the experience of the regional strategies already adopted by the european union, the strategy for the carpathian region must take into account common challenges, improve the functionality of existing structures, aim at increasing territorial cohesion, allow for substantial exploitation of existing potential, take into account the specificities of the region, local and regional traditions of the population. i believe that all of this cannot be covered by the danube strategy, but we must have a new strategy specific to the carpathians. cooperation on tourism, biodiversity conservation, land use planning, agriculture, forestry, transport, industry, energy can lead to an improvement in the quality of life in this area, but also to prevent depopulation of the carpathian region. however, in order to be able to speak of an effective strategy in the carpathian region, it must, as of 2014, have its own line of financing from the eu budget, which allows it to develop and run projects.
in writing. − the draft budget for 2014, which provides for commitment appropriations of eur 142,01 billion and payment appropriations of eur 135,9 billion, is 6% lower than the 2013 budget. the funds available under the multiannual financial framework for the youth employment initiative will be concentrated in advance in the first 2 years to combat youth unemployment. member states must absorb the funds available for this instrument efficiently and quickly and come up with non-bureaucratic programmes to tackle youth unemployment as soon as possible. the commission should clarify how the appropriations for combating youth unemployment will be used, what the amounts for the youth guarantee will be directly and what the method for the annual margins will be for this purpose. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european year of the environment and its objectives, in particular the promotion of sustainable development and the promotion of sustainable development in the union. in addition, increased support should be given to the eures axis, with the aim of facilitating access of unemployed young people to jobs available in other countries and providing advice to mobile workers and employers through cross-border partnerships.
in writing. − the european union is often criticised for not doing enough for its citizens and for failing to provide adequate responses to the economic crisis and other issues that are europeans' main concerns. in the last period, we have worked together on a number of strategic multiannual programmes with ambitious measures to get the eu back on the path to economic growth and to give european industry the competitiveness it needs on the world market. i am referring in particular to programmes such as cosme, dedicated to smes, and horizon 2020, which will support research and innovation. at the political level, there is a consensus on the need for these programmes. however, we cannot set targets and cut the appropriations needed to make these programmes work properly, as the council's position on the 2014 budget shows. the same can be said for the budget of frontex, an agency that needs money to fulfil its role. i believe that seriousness and consistency are needed in this respect, and that is why i can only support the proposal of the committee on budgets to return to the amounts proposed by the european commission for those budget lines.
in writing. − promoting scientific research into the marine and oceanic area can provide national and european decision-makers with the data needed to strengthen the 'blue economy'. this is the key element in achieving the objectives of the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. at the same time, this information, which the research and knowledge process can reveal, is useful for the basis of policies capable of creating the conditions for the sustainable development of european economies and societies, which depend on the marine environment as an economic resource, as a means of transport and international trade, as an important source of public food. at the same time, the collection of data on this area is of great importance for the fisheries industry, an industry on which the viability of european regional economies and the preservation of the way of life of eu coastal communities depend. a deeper understanding of the marine environment can provide arguments for the development of the fishing industry as well as for the effective conservation of the biosphere and biodiversity.
in writing. − i believe that a continuous multi-resolution digital map of the european seabed and oceans must be produced by 2020 to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, but i believe that the implementation of the ideas contained in it requires better cooperation with third countries. however, the commission's work in this area is deficient, and there are many tensions in the fisheries sector.
in writing. − the european union is now the most important economic and trade player in the world. both in the light of the external trade developed by the member states of the union and in the light of the ever-increasing dynamics of trade relations between the member states, it is safe to say that the issue of trade rules and regulations is of the utmost importance to the european union. but this must be done in a moderate and effective manner. it is true that the union promotes the rule of law and is committed to supporting trade freedoms. at the same time, however, we must also take into account the social impact of the proposed changes and the need to meet the expectations of european consumers as fully as possible.
in writing. − as the eu does not currently have a horizontal legislative framework to ensure the exercise of its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements, i believe that the proposed instrument is intended to strengthen the exercise of eu trade rights and eu credibility and to convince our economic partners to respect the rules of the game laid down in trade agreements, with the aim of opening up new markets for the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the regulation on the application and enforcement of international trade rules. i consider it necessary to include the services sector within the scope of the concession suspension measures as provided for by the world trade organisation. it is also necessary to inform the european parliament of commercial disputes.
in writing. − we have believed and continue to believe in an open market and the economic added value of international trade. the eu is probably one of the most open markets in the world with a liberal trade policy. having an open market does not mean, however, that there are no rules. an open market is neither naive nor passive when our trading partners do not respect the commitments they have made and the rules of the game set at the world trade organisation, of which the eu is a member. therefore, in order to defend our commercial interests effectively and to ensure our credibility with our partners, i can only support the instrument proposed by the commission. in order to be able to react quickly to possible restrictive trade measures imposed by the union's trading partners, we need a clear framework, and the proposal adopted by parliament meets this requirement. obviously, adopting this framework does not mean that we will have to use retaliation systematically or more often than we have done so far. i still believe that the union's trade interests must be defended in a first phase through negotiation and only when it fails to move to restrictive measures.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report establishing the european maritime and fisheries fund for the period 2014-2020 and i welcome its adoption. the text adopted took into account a large number of requests from the socialist and democratic group, including the creation of new jobs instead of using the funds available to finance the purchase of new boats without a sustainable economic strategy. the fisheries fund will provide €6 billion to fund almost 60% of the subsidies to support fishermen during their forced inactivity, to encourage a gradual reduction in the fleet of active fishing vessels, and to build safer and more environmentally friendly vessels. the vote is an important step towards the development of a socially and ecologically sustainable european fisheries, which will also allow for a better distribution of european funds and a stricter control of their use. finally, it is a fundamental text to help preserve fish stocks which have been severely impacted by the growth of 'overfishing', which is a good signal from the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. however, i regret the rejection of amendments which would have contributed significantly to the modernisation of small boats, which represent, for example, 95% of the romanian fishing fleet. i welcome the provisions favourable to coastal and small-scale fisheries. i also consider the provisions on support for aquaculture to be particularly important, given that only 6% of eu aquaculture products are produced in the member states, the rest being imported.
in writing. − i believe that the eu should remain at the forefront of developing technologies for a future green economy, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2030. the warsaw conference (cop 19) will be crucial for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a legally binding global agreement by 2015 in this area, placing the responsibility on governments to provide an adequate response to the climate challenges facing humanity.
in writing. − climate change is an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human society, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore solutions must be found at international level. the warsaw conference (cop 19) will play a crucial role in ensuring the progress needed to move the durban platform forward, paving the way for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a legally binding global agreement by 2015, at the paris conference. it is very important that the european union, as a major player, has a unified position at the conference with a view to making progress towards an international agreement and remains united in this regard. the current economic crisis clearly demonstrates that only a sustainable economy can ensure long-term prosperity and that climate protection is one of the main pillars of such a sustainable economy. the challenges of climate change cannot be viewed from a separate perspective but must always be addressed in the context of sustainable development, industrial policy and resource policy. in this regard, i believe it is essential to explain climate change policies to citizens and change their mindsets.
in writing. − i believe that cooperation at regional, national and international level is essential to develop a coherent approach to climate change which threatens the ability of a large number of regions to provide the food their populations need. the european union needs to promote rural development, sustainable development, the productivity of agricultural systems and food security, especially in developing countries, to reduce their dependence on costly fossil fuel-based agricultural production factors, which will improve the livelihoods of poor rural communities. we must not forget that the production of agrofuels from oilseeds, palm oil, soybeans, rapeseed, sunflower seeds, sugar cane, sugar beet and wheat could lead to a very high demand for land and endanger people in poor countries whose livelihoods depend on access to land and natural resources.
in writing. − the security of citizens and consumers, freedom of movement, protection of businesses, free and fair competition, the need to avoid the distorting of the legal economic cycle by the accumulation of illicit funds and financial acquisitions, and the fundamental democratic principles underpinning the eu and the member states are all seriously threatened by the spread of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. excessive bureaucracy can also discourage legitimate economic activity and encourage corruption among public officials. corruption can undermine economic development through the misallocation of resources, in particular to the detriment of public services and, in particular, to the detriment of social services and assistance. it is important to establish stronger mechanisms to ensure transparency and integrity and to eliminate red tape in ministries and other public structures, including full access to information on every aspect of administrative organisation and activity, the exercise of institutional functions and the use of public resources, including by guaranteeing the right of citizens to access documents (starting with the very sensitive sector of public procurement procedures). the culture of legality and integrity in the public and private sectors should also be promoted, including through an effective whistleblower protection programme.
in writing. i would like to welcome the adoption of the report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which brings to a close the work of the european parliament's special committee for the study and analysis of these forms of organised crime. this text has sent a strong signal from the european parliament in the fight against these scourges. it called for the implementation of several major measures, such as the creation of a european public prosecutor or the introduction of stricter sanctions in the area of illegal sports betting. this text concerns the interests of european citizens. corruption and organised crime are serious violations of fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of movement and to privacy. they involve serious consequences for the lives of thousands of victims. corruption and organised crime are also major economic problems, which lead to large financial losses, and this battle must be a priority in these times of crisis. a european approach is needed to organise a coherent legislative and legal framework. this report is part of that dynamic and should be welcomed.
in writing. − corruption and organised crime are a worldwide phenomenon, affecting eu countries as well, with a hugely negative impact both economically, with losses in the billions of euros, and humanly, when we think of the hundreds of thousands of victims of human trafficking, forced labour or sexual exploitation. organised crime also poses a threat to the safety of our citizens, as confirmed by the estimated 10 million illegal weapons circulating in the eu. despite their usefulness in everyday life, new technologies have brought new opportunities for organised crime, with cybercrime on the rise and causing significant material damage to internet users. a european action plan to combat corruption and crime is therefore needed, as suggested in the crim final report. many of the report's recommendations are quite ambitious and call for strong political will and much closer judicial and police cooperation between member states. however, in the face of a cross-border phenomenon of such a scale, tailor-made solutions and, above all, joint solutions are needed, as member states will not be able to defeat organised crime through individual actions.
in writing. − the eastern partnership is one of the most important elements of european foreign policy. beyond the specific interests or problems of the member states or even of the union at this level, it is important to remember that the union is first and foremost a forum for democratic principles and a space for sustainable development. the eastern partnership, in this perspective, is the instrument through which this political vision of governance and development of the european continent can be encouraged and effectively implemented. the european union has, over the past two decades, demonstrated its ability to build democratic formulas of supranational governance and to encourage democratic transition and development. we must not forget that, in the context of the evaluation of the eastern partnership, the commitment to democratic principles is the final benchmark in the evaluation of this foreign policy direction.
in writing. − the eu revised the european neighbourhood policy in 2011 to provide more support to partner countries, create a deep and sustainable democracy and support inclusive economic development. the eu's external financial instruments and in particular the european neighbourhood instrument should support the objectives of the neighbourhood policy, and strong and clear links need to be established between the policy framework and the support provided under those instruments. the government of moldova needs to continue to make sustained progress in implementing the necessary measures, political stability and lasting consensus on reforms, in particular on the rule of law and the independence of state institutions, are of fundamental importance for moldova's european aspirations. the initialling of the association agreement, including the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement, at the vilnius summit should be encouraged and i express my hope for a swift conclusion of the visa dialogue. the association agreement should be signed quickly in the near future (after the vilnius summit) if the current compatibility with the requirements is maintained. the opening of a new pipeline between moldova and romania is essential and continued efforts and resistance to pressure from russia to withdraw from the association agreement should be encouraged.
in writing. − despite pressure from the russian federation, the republic of moldova continued reforms this year to meet the european integration criteria, finalising ahead of schedule the negotiations for the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. the republic of moldova has also implemented the necessary measures of the visa liberalisation action plan. the first commission report on the monitoring of the concrete measures in the action plan was positive, the next one will be published this year. if it is positive, i ask the european commission to give its opinion to lift the visa requirement for citizens of the republic of moldova. visa liberalisation is a concrete measure that will reward the efforts and determination of recent years and motivate the population to further support european integration.
in writing. − i very much welcome the content and especially the timing of this report. the vilnius summit will be a major test for eu’s neighbourhood. it is high time for the eu to show firm commitment towards its eastern partners. however, the report mentions that the unsatisfactory progress made by some eastern partners is caused by a failure by the eu to show its eastern partners a sufficiently motivating european perspective. i would put it more bluntly and say that the unsatisfactory progress is linked to the lack of a clear membership perspective. we have shied away from this issue long enough. i believe it merits discussion after vilnius.
in writing. − the european union continues to face many challenges. the effects of the economic crisis have not yet been fully overcome and their social impact remains high. furthermore, the consolidation of a stable economic and monetary union remains an objective that is not fully achieved. equally, the political and economic support of small and medium-sized enterprises is essential for the union's economic success, as 75% of the workforce and 60% of the value added is generated at this level. politically, the most difficult problem that coordination and planning efforts reveal is the need for the european institutions to work together more effectively. for the european project to remain legitimate among european citizens, respect for the legislative framework, but above all involvement in the political debate of the european parliament, alongside the other institutions, remains essential.
in writing. − the commission and the council must continue to improve the indicators for monitoring the social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy in the context of the european semester. several member states have undertaken major labour market reforms to increase labour market resilience, introduce more flexibility at home and abroad, reduce segmentation and facilitate the transition from one job to another. member states with low levels of labour market participation should, in consultation with the social partners, step up active, comprehensive and inclusive labour market measures and introduce other reforms to facilitate access to quality jobs, prevent early withdrawals from the labour market, combat labour market segmentation and align workers' skills with labour market requirements. as regards youth unemployment, the adoption by the council of the youth guarantee and the allocation of eur 6 billion for the youth employment initiative as part of the next mff is a positive development, as member states now need to urgently introduce youth guarantee schemes and make efficient use of available resources.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies and i welcome its adoption by the european parliament. this report constitutes the european parliament's study of the second stage of the 2013 half-yearly cycle on economic coordination. it contains country-specific recommendations (csrs) issued by the commission and the council for the year 2013. it stresses the fundamental need to improve economic coordination within the european union, that the slowdown in fiscal consolidation has produced satisfactory results, and that all eu member states have a particular role to play in correcting the imbalances in the euro area. i am pleased to note that this report calls for better coordination of the eu's objectives around the eu 2020 strategy, particularly with regard to its social inclusion objectives in country-specific recommendations. finally, it stressed the need to develop coordinated investment in job creation, which is a crucial issue in order to revive growth in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on mediterranean migration flows. in the light of the tragedy in lampedusa, the union must review its migration policy. better coordination at european level and common tools are needed to save lives and help those seeking asylum.
in writing. the recent tragedies in the mediterranean should be a turning point for the european union and its migration policy. the only solution to these successive tragedies is a coordinated approach based on the principles of solidarity and responsibility, supported by existing and recently adopted instruments. the european parliament's position on the proposal for a regulation establishing a european border surveillance system (eurosur), adopted at first reading on 10 october, is a step forward in european coordination in this field. the eu and its member states must also continue to push for new measures to promote legal immigration and prevent further tragedies. the european union must continue to guarantee the human rights of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, especially unaccompanied minors. i welcome the adoption of this resolution and the growing attention of the eu and the member states to this central issue which should enable us to develop a comprehensive strategy that places labour migration in the context of the social, economic and political development of the union's neighbourhood.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the intolerable living conditions in the countries of origin have caused a major increase in the number of immigrants in the european union. in their attempt to enter the union, they travel by sea in small and inadequate vessels that pose a danger to their own lives. the tragedy that took place in southern italy, where more than 360 people lost their lives trying to reach the continent, is a european drama and it is regrettable that such an event took place and that the union could do nothing to prevent it. i therefore believe that a european programme is needed that has the financial and human resources to detect such ships in good time. the increase in the budget for easo and frontex is necessary to prevent such an incident from occurring in the future and to protect the lives of people who for various reasons are exposed to very high risks. thank you !
in writing. − the swift agreement is a particularly important instrument in the fight against terrorism, which unfortunately still poses a threat to member states. this agreement received the support of parliament after lengthy discussions on the guarantees it offers in the field of personal data protection. therefore, i do not believe that the agreement should be suspended without having certainties about practices that are contrary to the principles agreed between the us and the eu. nor can we remain indifferent to the newly revealed elements of surveillance by the us national security agency. but i think that a serious investigation by the european commission is needed so that we have clear data on what actually happened. in my view, these data do not exist at the moment and therefore we do not have sufficient solid grounds to take a suspension decision that will have serious consequences. we must not lose sight of the fact that, to protect our own citizens, we need a policy of tracking terrorist financing. suspending the agreement without the eu having its own capacity to extract this data would leave us completely unprotected and i don't think it's in the best interest of european citizens.
in writing. - the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001 in the usa, but also those on the territory of the european union in madrid in 2004, london in 2005, and those planned by the extremist breivik on the island of utøya in 2011 show us that europe is not immune to terrorist attacks either. the eu-us agreement on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data from the eu to the united states protects european citizens from possible terrorist acts through the terrorist finance tracking program (tftp) and the swift network, respectively, as of 1 august 2010. the agreement contains important safeguards with regard to confidentiality and protection of personal data. the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and council convention no 108 provide for the protection of individuals with regard to the automated processing of personal data. for this reason, the allegations of espionage and financial data theft by the nsa that have appeared in the press must be taken seriously. if there's a breach of the agreement, action must be taken. the european union needs a strong security system to protect its citizens. until we have credible explanations and evidence of these facts it is irresponsible to suspend the agreement and put the protection of citizens at risk.
in writing. − this legislative proposal from the european commission intends to introduce the 7th environment action programme for the period 2013-2020. among other things, it would require third countries to be as involved as the union is in environmental and climate issues. it is important that the eu does not remain isolated in its efforts and can rely on strong partners. the eu must better define the conditions for access to its market and not open it up unless third countries protect the environment, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ensure that european businesses are not disadvantaged by unfair competition. in my view, the development of environmental civility should be a priority, a factor of progress.
in writing. − the environmental challenges we face today (climate change, biodiversity loss, pollution, waste, public health risks, etc.) remain significant and cannot be ignored or treated lightly. i am confident that the new general programme of action of the union will ensure a high level of environmental protection and guarantee quality of life through equitable and sustainable welfare for citizens. the new eu environmental policy framework proposes an ambitious and realistic approach to environmental problems and also includes solutions to overcome the crisis by promoting green economic growth. we can and must have economic growth and create new jobs while respecting the environment, using resources efficiently and focusing on innovation and business competitiveness. the proposals in the new action programme will ensure that european environmental legislation is based on sound scientific knowledge, is more coherent and simpler, and is therefore better accepted and applied. i also welcome the attention paid to the need and importance of raising awareness, informing and involving european citizens in the european union's environmental policy so that they become actors in the protection, conservation, enhancement and exploitation of natural capital.
in writing. − the european union is and wants to remain an important player in environmental protection and as such should send a strong political message to third countries to help create international environmental governance and combat climate change.
in writing. − this proposal for a revision of the directive is a step towards improving the protection of citizens against exposure to ionising radiation. the amendments were based on the latest scientific data and knowledge in the field and will remove contradictory and outdated provisions in existing legislation. in addition, in order to ensure better protection of the public, the provisions of the directive will also take into account natural radiation sources as well as naturally occurring radioactive materials. i supported the adoption of the amendments.
in writing. − the proposal to reform the council's basic safety rules directive is another step towards improving protection against exposure to ionising radiation, mainly by removing contradictory provisions from existing legislation and incorporating the latest scientific data and knowledge into current legislation. i welcome the fact that natural radiation sources are taken into account for the first time in the directive on basic safety standards, in order to guarantee better protection for the general public. the presence of radioactive substances in the environment has consequences for the protection of public health. in addition to the direct routes of exposure, environmental protection as a whole must be considered in a general, comprehensive and coherent framework. in this context, i believe that more resources should be allocated to examining in detail the consequences of ionising radiation on both the population and the environment. it is important to ensure a high level of protection, but without imposing disproportionate burdens on member states in terms of implementation. regulatory regimes in the member states are very different from each other and a uniform approach is therefore not appropriate. member states need an appropriate degree of flexibility to implement legislation in accordance with their own practices.
in writing. − the european union cannot define its foreign policy without remaining faithful to the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the union is built around these principles, which is why it cannot afford not to pursue their promotion in its own foreign policy or their inclusion as a fundamental element of the emerging international order. it is equally important that the union demonstrate, through a robust and effective policy, its capacity to act decisively to protect the security and interests of its citizens. last but not least, the union and its member states need to show additional flexibility to deal with the security challenges we face, ranging from the impact of climate change to issues such as food security or energy security.
in writing. − the global financial crisis is creating major political, economic, social, cultural and environmental challenges, including domestic issues, for all parties and addressing such challenges requires collective and united eu action and the creation of alliances, in order to promote peace, security, social progress, prosperity, the rule of law and respect for human rights. in this context, i believe that european external action must be understood and supported by eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this report. i regret, however, that another year has passed without any progress in resolving the frozen conflict in the transnistrian region. the russian federation is using this situation to blackmail the republic of moldova and prevent it from moving to europe. this year, tension increased in the region when, in april 2013, the so-called 'transnistrian authorities' tried to introduce checkpoints on the so-called administrative line on the dniester river. another challenge came in july 2013 when a russian federation government publication announced that russian forces in the transnistria region would be reinforced by helicopters. on october 11, the vice president of the russian federation threatened that "transnistria is preparing a tough response to the authorities in chisinau in case of the republic of moldova's accession to the eu". despite these direct threats to its territorial integrity, the republic of moldova is determined to continue on its european path. its efforts to implement the reforms needed for european integration must be rewarded with concrete action at the right time. the signing of the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement is to take place before autumn 2014.
in writing. − one of the most important problems facing the european electronic communications sector is the major differences between the implementation and enforcement of the european legislative framework. these gaps are one of the most important obstacles to increased investment and the development of european communications. the important technological advances of recent years also make it imperative to adapt european legislation to the new realities in this field. i support the adoption of the report because many of its recommendations can contribute to the development of a competitive european electronic communications sector, based on innovation and investment, which offers high benefits to both european consumers and businesses. i also agree with the importance of closer and more efficient cooperation between national regulators in the field of electronic communications and national competition authorities.
in writing. − the roaming regulation was adopted only last year, imposing a series of structural measures on transport operators, designed to create competition and thus push down the prices of roaming services at national level. considering that the regulation is to be revised in 2016, i would like to mention that i am in favour of the abolition of roaming charges and hope that this measure will gain the support of parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs trautmann on the communication system, access to services, networks and guarantees of the competition regime. the evolution of the technological spectrum at our disposal requires a thorough review of the regulatory framework governing access and competition rules in the electronic communications market. such review should be carried out with the involvement of stakeholders to ensure that a stable and durable framework can be provided.
in writing. − the internal market for electronic communications is a necessity in the union today. it is therefore necessary that the commission's regulations are applied by the member states in a uniform manner and within the relevant time limits. different implementations by member states only fragment the internal market for electronic communications, directly affecting innovation, economic growth and the provision of competitive prices for all european citizens. in view of the technological developments of recent years, a review of the framework is necessary to further promote an ecosystem of competition and investment for the benefit of final consumers. it is necessary to include broadband internet access at a fair price in the universal service. it is also necessary to confer powers on national regulatory authorities in all respects to ensure the proper implementation of the framework.
reporting for opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − mr president, commissioner, investment in education, research and innovation is essential for industrial policy and for the union's competitiveness. as rapporteur of the itre commission, i supported the commission's proposal and called for the inclusion of the european union's industrial policy among the relevant union policies for the 'erasmus for all' programme. the itre committee requested the inclusion of the mobility of persons for educational purposes, including in the field of entrepreneurship, among the objectives and actions of the programme and supported the eligibility of phd students pursuing a phd in another participating country for the guarantee of loans to phd students resident in a participating country. i consider it important to ensure access to the programme for non-governmental organisations, especially youth organisations, in areas such as education, training, youth and mass sport. i believe that there is a need to increase the number of people over 35 years of age who benefit from lifelong learning. for the sake of transparency, i consider it important to define the performance criteria in an annex to the regulation, rather than by delegated acts.
mr president, we have spoken a great deal in recent years about an inclusive economy, a knowledge-based economy, a sustainable economy, we have spoken about fighting unemployment. finally, we have, especially among young people, a very coherent programme, a programme that celebrated its 25th anniversary last year, a programme that is now much better structured and has much better funding. we cannot think of a single economy, a single european market, if we do not talk about a single labour market, if we do not talk about the mobility of young people within the borders of the european union, if we do not talk about the exchange of experience between universities, if we do not talk about the same workforce with uniformly developed skills, if we do not talk about higher education graduates who have the same preparation for the labour market throughout the european union, and of course if we do not talk about lifelong learning. i think that this project should be welcomed and the way in which the committee on budgets supported the funding of this project should be welcomed.
thank you very much, mr president, and i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mrs doris pack, on her contribution to the improvement of this programme. i really appreciate this report because it is the first time that all the education programmes will be brought together in a common framework. the over eur 14 billion allocated to the programme is a signal that the union is supporting educational mobility, especially in the context of high youth unemployment. the benefits of an erasmus grant are not limited to the period spent in a particular country. it can open up the way to professional mobility after graduation or it can give rise to business ideas in the home country. i also believe that more attention should be paid to the mobility of students from the eastern neighbourhood and that next year more scholarships should be awarded to students from the republic of moldova.
erasmus is one of the best-known and most successful european union programmes, regardless of what we mean by it. for millions of students, it is not just about studying abroad, acquiring new knowledge, but also about discovering the continent, experiencing european identity in practice, respecting otherness and taking on new challenges. nothing serves the idea of a common europe better than erasmus, because these young adults will shape the future of the continent. it is therefore important to address possible financial obstacles through erasmus and its sister programmes and to avoid any question of the eligibility of programmes during the next seven-year planning cycle.
mr president, i support the proposal of the european commission and the rapporteur to change the structure of the regulation, to identify more precisely the sub-programmes corresponding to the different sectors of education and training, to define more clearly the specific objectives assigned to the different sub-programmes, and to include a programme for sport. i believe it is important to strengthen the links between education and employment, between education and poverty reduction, and lifelong learning by addressing unemployment, especially youth unemployment, and poverty by promoting active citizenship and active ageing. it is also necessary to improve the accessibility of the programme, i.e. to promote greater participation of persons with special needs or educational, social, gender, physical, psychological, geographical, economic or cultural difficulties.
reporting for opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − thank you, mr president, commissioner, the creative and cultural sectors make an important contribution to employment and economic growth, providing 4.5% of europe's total gdp and 3.8% of its workforce. as rapporteur for the itre commission, i supported the introduction of new specific objectives of the programme, which strengthen its components relating to the adaptation of the creative and cultural sectors to globalisation and digitalisation. the digitisation of products of the creative and cultural sectors offers economic opportunities and is a key condition for the future development of europe's cultural and creative capacities. the accessibility of cultural material online will allow citizens across europe to benefit from it. a public-private partnership is needed to create new ways of financing. we called for better, legal and attractive online offerings to encourage artistic creation and protect copyright, and for a clear budget allocation for each of the three components of the programme. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs silvia costa.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am very satisfied at this successful outcome for the connecting europe facility (cef) after a year and a half of hard work and good cooperation with my co-rapporteurs on transport, ms ayala sender and mr riquet, whom i warmly thank for their constructive approach to this complex issue. tomorrow we will vote on this new european instrument which will earmark eur 33 billion for investment to improve europe’s transport, energy and telecommunications networks. this new funding instrument is potentially a real revolution and, at the least, a shift of paradigm. it is the only growth policy in the eu budget for the coming seven years. in times of crisis we are obliged to be creative in order to respond with limited means to the challenges we face. with the cef, public money will be spent in the most efficient way by maximising the use of innovative financial instruments. these instruments have the capacity to create a leverage effect by attracting private funding that is available on the world capital markets, and thereby to multiply by up to 15 or 20 times the initial budget. through the cef, we are sending a positive message to world investors, telling them that europe is still an attractive and innovative capital market. it is ever more important to invest in our infrastructures, for they are the primary growth generators in all sectors of the economy. however, they are on the verge of becoming outdated and are insufficiently interconnected. as a consequence, there is a real risk of market fragmentation and renationalisation of energy, transport and telecommunications policies if the current state of play is maintained. when we know that our needs for upgrading and interconnecting our infrastructure amount to eur 1.5 trillion, we have no choice but to work alongside the private sector so as to leverage financial resources on a massive scale. the cef also marks a shift in mentality as it focuses on financing projects which have european added value only. this requires us to envisage the common good for europe and to shift away from the traditional nationalist behaviour pattern of 28 member states each fighting over the financial envelope. with a total budget of eur 33 billion, it is still necessary to decide what political priorities are to be financed. that is what parliament has discussed in depth with the council, and i am satisfied we have agreed in broad terms that, with eur 5.8 billion, the european union will make substantial improvements in order to complete the internal energy market, interconnect our member states’ and regional submarkets and ensure security of supply. a number of european projects of common interest have already been identified and they will be given priority in relation to permits and funding. for countries in eastern europe, this is a much awaited response to investment needs. to take romania as an example, projects like white stream will allow better interconnection and integration within the european energy market. as key growth drivers, the digital economy and the telecoms sector will benefit from eur 1.1 billion to support investment in a pan-european digital service. this should allow the deployment on a large scale of online and cross-border services of public interest, benefiting european citizens and businesses. in today’s world it is crucial for europe to create an environment defined by competitiveness and smart growth, and to make the eu market attractive to investors once again. i am convinced that the connecting europe facility is, above all, the right tool for boosting our competitiveness and creating a basis for growth.
thank you, madam president. the competitiveness of the union depends on the provision of an integrated trans-european transport network. the disparities between the eastern and western parts of the union in transport infrastructure can be reduced by implementing the projects identified in the ten-t and the connecting europe facility regulations. both regulations provide for annexes and maps in which romania is present, but i consider that important regions of romania are not included in the core network. i welcome the fact that the amendments were adopted, which have led to the inclusion of the sebeș - alba iulia - turda - cluj napoca - dej - suceava - pascani - iași route on the central railway network for freight and passengers, the carrying out of studies and works for the high-speed railway network on the bucharest - constanța route, the inclusion of the port of galați in the central ten-t network and the development of multimodal platforms for the ports of giurgiu and galați, the inclusion on the central network of the hungary - iași - târgu mureș - sebeș - turdaș connection, the calafat - craiova - bucharest section and the global network of the constanța - galați - brăilați section. i ask the plenary to support amendments 200 and 199 to the ten-t regulation and amendments 136 to 139 to the connecting europe facility regulation, in which i have asked for the buzău - brăila - galați section to be included in the central road and rail network and for the via carpathia route to be added to the list of transport corridors and also for the galați - giurgiulești section, including the bypass of the municipality of galați, to be included in the central road network. finally, i regret that the methodology used by the commission for identifying ten-t projects is not part of the annex to the ten-t regulation. thank you, madam president.
thank you madam president, commissioner. there is more and more talk of the eu 2020 strategy these days, more and more talk of economic growth, but we forget that only a small part of the development centres are interconnected with rail and port networks. unfortunately, we do not take into account the cohesion effect, and i would point out that transport or transport infrastructure is the most important element in terms of regional development. the north-eastern region of romania is the second poorest of the 271 regions defined within the european union. it has no connection with the west of the european union to facilitate western economic agents to invest in this region to increase economic level and purchasing power. i therefore believe that the commission should give this matter concrete thought and improve this network as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, thank you very much for the overwhelmingly positive comments about this very big plan. taken as a whole, the trans-european networks, in conjunction with the connecting europe facility financing mechanism, may even constitute the biggest overall project under this multiannual financial framework, so it really is a big plan. we can be satisfied that we have now reached a certain final point in decision making concerning this plan. of course, a lot of specific ideas were aired, which is not surprising, and they were not new to me. but if we want to create a real european infrastructure network, we need a plan and that plan should avoid a patchwork of national projects. this was the main aim. the first step was to create a methodology. together with parliament we adopted a methodology for creating a plan, a map. on the basis of that methodology, we now have a trans-european networks plan following, as you all know, three years of negotiations: first of all with the governments and then with parliament about the proposal by the commission. now this plan is more or less ready. the great thing is that we now have not only a plan but also money for financing the plan. we have the connecting europe facility, which is a real major novelty. it started three years ago, from the proposal to create a transport infrastructure fund, and we now have the connecting europe facility. of course, the needs are much greater. nonetheless, we should appreciate the decision to increase substantially the financing for the transport networks and also the energy networks. so it is now a big plan, and clearly this is not the end of the story. the next stage will be the implementation of the plan, and no one should underestimate the difficulties along the way. there will be delays and conflicting views but still, with regard to the main aim and what we have achieved together, we have a much clearer framework of rules about how this infrastructure should be developed. that is a great achievement, so i hope there will be a positive vote on these two regulations tomorrow, and that we can then continue to push for implementation, to follow what governments are doing and to ensure that society reaps full benefit from this plan.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues for a fruitful debate. i must repeat what i said in my initial speech that the cef is supposed to be a shift in mentality away from thinking in terms of national envelopes, fighting for money, each of us for our own country. to try and support this project would bring european added value and contribute to completing the european infrastructure; so it is supposed to be a change in mentality. i am sure each of us would have brilliant national projects, but this is not the place for them. the cef is something which is supposed to be european. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to stand by this new instrument in order to unleash its full potential because it was, from the beginning, presented as a paradigm shift through this innovative financial instrument. so we are really expecting the commission to deliver in this respect. only the commission can effectively make the maximum use of this instrument. it has to involve itself in the preparation and implementation phase, and this will be crucial for the success or failure of this new policy tool. i wish to thank all of you and hope it will be a success for europe.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has delivered an opinion. − the objectives set by this programme highlight two fundamental problems facing our societies: the weakness of historical memory and the low level of civic participation. for the younger generation, civil liberties, democracy, a somewhat predictable life course, economic development are - fortunately - natural. in europe, these things were not so long ago a rarity, and it was the coming together of european states, the reconciliation of formerly antagonistic nations and the commitment of citizens to rebuilding europe that transformed the face of the continent. at the same time, the basis for understanding and trust between nations is an awareness of each other's history. but there are also sharply contrasting interpretations of history. we must not avoid the more frequent debate and clash of views, and we must treat the issue with the gravity it deserves at the level of public opinion.
thank you, mr president. i regret the recent statements made by the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso, on a french television programme, concerning the postponement of romania's integration into the schengen area. romania has technically fulfilled all the criteria for joining the schengen area, a fact repeatedly acknowledged by the european commission, including through the voice of its president. the european commission is, first and foremost, the guardian of the european treaties, and the president of the commission must express the position of this institution. i therefore regret that in the aforementioned programme mr barroso has become the spokesman for the council of the european union, and thus implicitly for some member states which, for populist reasons of internal policy, unjustifiably delay romania's entry into the schengen area.
mr president, my speech concerns education; it is an area with chronic underfunding in romania, between 3 and 4 percent of gdp. "schools are poor and teachers are starving", is the most common phrase about education in my country. taking this into account, five years ago, on the initiative of the president, all the political parties in the romanian parliament signed a national pact for education, which provided that, every year, 6 percent of gdp would be allocated to schools, high schools and universities. since then, no government has met that commitment. last week, the streets of bucharest were flooded with teachers who kept reminding them of the provisions of the pact. 'without education, there is no nation', they said, and no future in europe, i would add. i ask the usl government to give satisfaction to the romanian teachers, if not, to leave.
european newspapers also reported that on october 27, nearly 150,000 romanian hungarians formed a frontline against the romanian government's planned regional transformation plans and in favor of the territorial autonomy of szeklerland. the huge movement, which emphasized the decades-old demands of nearly one and a half million hungarians in romania, drew attention to two important things: that the situation of minorities in romania could not be considered solved at all, and that the hungarians in romania were ready to draw attention to unresolved problems through the means of the movement. i hope a lot of people got the message. however, this does not seem to be the case for public bodies. authorities have begun harassing the organizers of the life-chain. the situation of indigenous national minorities is not adequately regulated at european level and existing good practices are not automatically adopted in all member states, so coordination and frank discussion of problems would be needed.
thank you, mr president, and colleagues. allergies are among the most common diseases in the world, affecting over 150 million europeans. it is estimated that this so-called 'modern disease' will affect one in two people in the future. allergies are becoming more common and more aggressive. they occur quite early in life and are caused by a variety of factors, cumulative, that can be prevented to some extent. allergies affect mainly children and adolescents and represent a socioeconomic risk factor due to the impact of these conditions on school performance, social life and overall quality of life. in this context, i would like to ask my colleagues for their support for a more active involvement of member states in actions to reduce the impact of allergies on society. we need preventive action in this area, as we need national multidisciplinary programmes to effectively manage this disease. educational programmes for children, their families and teachers are needed, as well as investment in research and adequate training of healthcare staff.
mr president, the final agreement on the multiannual financial framework, which came after a long period of extremely difficult negotiations, can be considered a success. it is true that the council won the case, succeeding in imposing the budget reduction. this was mainly due to the current context, still marked by the crisis, complemented by the budgetary difficulties faced by member states and the financial discipline imposed by the new european regulations. parliament has secured two very important instruments from the negotiations that can be used in the long term - full flexibility between years at the level of payments and increased flexibility between years and headings at the level of commitments - and that will facilitate a much more efficient use of funds, as well as the review clause, which will allow it to reassess the union's budgetary priorities in the light of the economic situation at the time. i congratulate parliament's negotiating team on the results achieved, in particular on securing all outstanding payments for 2013, and equally the rapporteurs on horizontal policies, who have finalised the agreements on legal bases, in particular for the cohesion and agriculture policies, using the codecision procedure successfully. the agreement reached is far from meeting parliament's expectations, but a further delay in the vote would have irreversibly damaged the continuity of many programmes financed from the union budget, especially in cohesion policy, and would have generated instability at union level.
in writing. the draft multiannual financial framework is a compromise. unfortunately, we cannot speak of a real success of our legislative forum: it is the first time in the history of the european union that the european parliament votes for a budget that is reduced compared to the previous multiannual framework. the council has also succeeded in imposing a policy of austerity at european level, to the detriment of the interests of european citizens. the amount of eur 908 billion for payment appropriations does not correspond to the eur 960 billion for commitment appropriations. however, i cannot but welcome the efforts of my colleagues on the negotiating team to introduce more flexibility in the use of funds so that more funds can be allocated to tackling youth unemployment, the 'erasmus for all' programme and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. i also welcome the allocation of an additional eur 1 billion for the fund for european aid to the most deprived. i hope that the next european legislature will use the review clause to reassess budgetary priorities so that they are focused on growth and investment in human capital.
in writing. the parliament's fight with the european council on the mff is not budgetary but political. as the eu crisis is political and not economic. at the root of both lies the eu's inability to decide in the common interest, caused by the exacerbation of national egos. the compromise reached has only national egoism and populism as winners. if this compromise is not adopted, the eu's budgetary problems will indeed be worse, as the council is being blackmailed. but his adoption makes the political problem worse. the european parliament, the defender of the common interests, would capitulate to a council that has ceased to be a european institution, behaving as a forum for nationalist harassment and a zero-sum game. on the contrary, a budgetary crisis following the rejection of the mff would be a chance to resolve the political crisis. it is true that the latest form of mci is superior to the previous ones. it is still insufficient. inadequate to the eu's objectives on technological progress, strategic infrastructure, recycled energy, youth employment, education of high common standards, economic, social and territorial cohesion. insufficient and inadequate to the need for an efficient distribution of the money paid by european taxpayers between the member states and the union. that is why, in line with the ep's warnings, i voted against the cfm.
in writing. i would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to the compromises needed for the adoption of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. i regret that the financial forecasts for 2014-2020 are lower than those for the 2007-2013 period, at a time when european citizens expect more from the european union. it is positive that the budget for science, research and innovation is higher, but it is totally unproductive to reduce resources for the connecting europe facility. without a good european infrastructure, the competitiveness of the european economy suffers. i hope that when the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is reviewed, after the new european parliament is elected, this anomaly will be corrected.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a balanced compromise has been reached which will provide the beneficiary states with valuable resources, especially in the context of budgetary austerity. romania, which has obtained an increase in allocations of 18%, will have to focus on measures to reduce unemployment. i stress the need to use european funds for vocational retraining programmes that give young people real opportunities to find a job. however, i note that romania is having problems with the drafting of the partnership agreement with the european commission. the document submitted by the romanian government for consultation does not precisely identify the financing needs and the priority projects for the period 2014-2020. this means that there is a risk that european funds will not be used in the sectors where they are really needed.
in writing. − the agreement reached on the multiannual financial framework is a cornerstone for the future of the european union, as it is, in effect, an investment plan that supports growth for the next seven years. this long-term budget, which will be implemented from 1 january 2014, supports and encourages investment in jobs, research and education, while focusing on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. young people are one of the groups most affected by the crisis, with acute unemployment in many eu member states. i therefore welcome the fact that the union budget for 2014-2020 provides for a special flexibility in the allocation of money to address youth unemployment as effectively as possible. the flexibility clause will allow for an assessment of the functioning of the mff by the end of 2016 and, depending on the economic situation at that time, the commission may come forward with a legislative proposal to revise the mff. by introducing this clause, the european union is demonstrating its ability to respond to the real needs of citizens and businesses by directing existing funds in the most effective way.
in writing. i welcome with relative enthusiasm the vote of the european parliament on the 2014-2020 budget. the work of the negotiators, and particularly of the socialists and democrats, has helped to limit the damage caused by the budget cuts requested by many member states, which are weakening the budget of the european union. the compromise we have adopted today is, however, the best we could have got, given the cuts imposed by the states. the european parliament has called for the eu budget to be directed towards making all the necessary efforts to overcome the crisis and boost growth, despite the reduction in the budget for the period 2014-2020. the next european parliament will have the chance to reopen negotiations in 2016 to adapt to europe's needs in the aftermath of the crisis and to carry out the policies to boost growth and jobs that it needs. the creation of a high-level group whose primary objective will be to consider the creation of own resources for the union is also to be welcomed. this is an important step towards a real reform of the union's budget.
in writing. − given that we are only a few months away from the start of the new programming period, we urgently need a european parliament resolution on the european union's multiannual budget for 2014-2020. it is a duty we owe to eu citizens, businesses, farmers, public administrations and other categories of beneficiaries of european funds. i have chosen to vote in favour of the compromise between parliament and the council, even though i do not entirely agree with the elements of it. the amounts allocated to cohesion policy are lower than those in the current generation of programmes (2007-2013). or, the eu's potential cannot be fully exploited as long as the economic and social gaps between the west and east of the european union remain significant. i also believe that all eu countries, including those in eastern europe, should be encouraged to apply for eu funds directly from brussels, not just from the structural funds. moreover, i do not agree that the amounts i am voting for today will be subject to the macroeconomic conditionality mechanism, even in the final version, which includes a number of safeguard clauses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. the new financial framework introduces for the period 2014-2020 a special flexibility to address youth unemployment and strengthen research (article 15) and sets the contribution to the financing of large-scale projects (article 16). thus, under article 15, an amount of up to eur 2543 million (2011 prices) may be concentrated at the beginning of the period, in 2014 and 2015, as part of the annual budgetary procedure, for certain policy objectives relating to youth employment, research, erasmus, in particular for apprentices and small and medium-sized enterprises. as regards large-scale projects, from the general budget of the union for the period 2014-2020, a maximum of eur 7 billion shall be made available to the european satellite navigation programmes (egnos and galileo), a maximum of eur 2 707 million to the iter project (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) and eur 786 million shall be made available to the european earth monitoring programme (copernicus). the new financial framework also introduces a compensation mechanism for budget reduction, maintains the level of funding of the fund for the most deprived persons and maintains a high financial commitment for the european social fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the agreement because i support better cooperation between the european institutions when it comes to the union budget. the commission has too often been in a situation in recent years where it had no funds to pay for obligations it had already assumed. whether it was the erasmus programme or programmes funded by the cohesion fund, tensions between the eu council and parliament affected the beneficiaries of european funds. more trust is needed, but also more accountability from the council. it is not normal that only after pressure from parliament do member states honour the obligations they have previously assumed. so i hope that in the future, we can avoid similar situations and that the uncertainties are eliminated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, cooperation in budgetary matters and sound financial management. the objective of the agreement adopted in accordance with article 295 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is to implement budgetary discipline and to improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and the cooperation between the institutions on budgetary matters, as well as to ensure sound financial management. budgetary discipline covers all expenditure and the agreement is binding on all institutions for the duration of its validity. it is composed of three parts: part i contains supplementary provisions on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and provisions on special instruments not included in the mff; part ii concerns interinstitutional cooperation during the budgetary procedure; part iii contains provisions on the sound financial management of union funds. under the agreement, in 2017, the commission shall update the forecasts for payment appropriations for the period after 2020. that update shall take into account all relevant information, including the actual implementation of the commitment appropriations and the payment appropriations, as well as the forecasts for implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because youth unemployment is the main challenge facing the european union today. the mobilisation of additional funds for measures to stimulate employment among young people is an absolutely necessary measure. alarming unemployment rates among this category could lead to negative long-term effects. romania has similar problems, with three regions registering youth unemployment rates above 25%. the rapid implementation of the youth guarantee, as well as of complementary measures, should therefore be a priority for member states.
in writing. - i have proposed, as rapporteur for this dossier, to vote in favour of draft amending budget no 7 for 2013, as it represents an increase of eur 150 million in the european social fund to be used in italy, france and spain to combat youth unemployment, which has unfortunately reached very high levels. this amending budget is designed to meet certain requirements which arose at the european council meeting of 7 and 8 february, at which the heads of state or government negotiated the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 7/2013 will have direct effects on tackling youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion in france, italy and spain. this draft amending budget must therefore be adopted without delay in order not to interrupt the financing of initiatives which can have a real impact on the social problems facing spain, italy and france. i also believe that the eur 150 million should be financed by mobilising the flexibility instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2013 of the eu for the financial year 2013, section iii commission. draft amending budget no 7 for the financial year 2013 aims at increasing the commitment appropriations under heading 1b of the multiannual financial framework (mff) by eur 150 million in order to address 'some issues' arising from the final outcome of the mff negotiations for the period 2014-2020 affecting france, italy and spain. those additional funds should contribute to addressing specific situations related to unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, as well as poverty and social exclusion in those member states. the commission considers that the most appropriate way of supporting these member states is to increase the european social fund (esf). we support the commission's proposal to allocate these additional funds to existing esf programmes in the affected member states to address the specific situation of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and social exclusion. we ask the commission to inform the european parliament in due time about the concrete measures and actions financed by these funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the approval of amending budget no 8/2013 was necessary to cover the remaining needs until the end of the year. the increase of eur 3,9 billion in payment appropriations was a necessity arising from commitments already made. and by honouring these commitments, a number of financial penalties are avoided and the beneficiaries can receive the eu funds provided. last but not least, the approval of these payment appropriations was one of the political conditions imposed by the european parliament for the vote on the eu multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − the updated revision of the payment needs in the 2013 budget confirmed a significant shortfall in payment appropriations, after taking into account the amount of eur 7,3 billion authorised in br 2/2013 and all possible sources for redistribution. following the political agreement at the highest level reached by parliament, the council presidency and the commission on 27 june 2013 on the mff 2014-2020, the council committed itself to ensuring full compliance with all eu commitments for the financial year 2013, to formally adopt mff 2/2013 for the amount of eur 7,3 billion, and to adopt without delay a further draft amending budget. the commission therefore presented br 8/2013 which aims at increasing payment appropriations by eur 3,9 billion to heads of 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the mff, in order to reach the overall level already proposed in br 2/2013. the 2013 budget is the second instalment of the 2013 budget and represents the minimum necessary to honour the union's legal obligations and previous commitments for the 2013 financial year, to avoid financial penalties and to reduce outstanding commitments. full adoption of pbr 8/2012 will allow the union to honour all its legal obligations by the end of 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 8/2013 of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission. the political agreement at the highest level reached by parliament, the council presidency and the commission on 27 june 2013 on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework included a political commitment by the council to take all necessary measures to ensure full compliance with all eu obligations for the financial year 2013. draft amending budget no 8/2013 (dab 8/2013) constitutes, in accordance with the commitments entered into by the three institutions, the second instalment of dab 2/2013, representing the minimum necessary to honour the legal obligations and previous commitments of the union for the financial year 2013, to avoid financial penalties and to reduce outstanding commitments. it aims to increase payment appropriations by eur 3,9 billion under heading nos 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual financial framework, with a view to meeting outstanding needs by the end of the year. this will fulfil the obligations arising from past and current commitments and the beneficiaries will receive the funds provided for by the agreed eu policies for which the parliament and the council have authorised the corresponding commitment appropriations in previous annual budgets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the construction sector has been badly affected by the global economic crisis. in spain, the demand for building construction has declined, leading to the closure of several companies in the sector. the increase in imports of construction products has also put additional pressure on the entrepreneurs in this sector. the effects were a very high increase in the unemployment rate in the valencian community, from 9,61% (in the first quarter of 2008) to 29,19% (in the first quarter of 2013). that is why i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is absolutely necessary to support the workers affected. the measures to be financed under this support include vocational guidance, counselling, vocational training, professional development, and assistance with the intensive search for a job.
in writing. the following report refers to the application submitted by spain for financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). due to the crisis that has hit the country and which has brought the unemployment rate from 9.61% to 29.19% in a very short time, many companies have experienced difficult times. i therefore voted in favour of this measure, which aims to support the reintegration into employment of some 630 people who have been made redundant in 140 companies dealing with construction materials. i also congratulate my colleague, mr plenković, the first croatian rapporteur for the european parliament.
in writing. − i support the allocation of eur 840 000 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 300 workers made redundant from 140 construction materials enterprises in the comunidad valenciana region. in particular, those who have only completed a basic education and who represent more than 74% of those made redundant should be supported. i call on the spanish authorities to use the funding received to its full potential for the training of these people and for supporting entrepreneurship activities. as the local economy of the comunidad valenciana is mainly based on smes, i believe that this money should be used to create new businesses, which would reduce the unemployment rate in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - application egf/2013/004 es/comunidad valenciana - building materials, submitted by spain. spain submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf in may 2013 following 630 redundancies in the 140 enterprises active in the comunidad valenciana region, 300 of which were workers covered by the measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from june 2012 to march 2013. in the first quarter of 2013 employment in the comunidad valenciana was severely affected by the crisis, with the unemployment rate reaching 29,19%. the coordinated package of personalised services to be co-financed by the egf includes measures to reintegrate 300 workers made redundant into the labour market. we call on the competent institutions to make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural mechanisms with a view to speeding up the mobilisation of the egf. we welcome the improved procedure introduced by the commission following the european parliament's request to speed up the release of grants. we hope that further improvements to the procedure will be integrated into the new regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (2014-2020), increasing the efficiency, transparency and visibility of the egf.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the revision of the public procurement agreement guarantees the transparency of procedures and equal treatment of bidders. on the one hand, the agreement will allow non-discriminatory access to the eu market for companies from third countries. on the other hand, it will provide legal certainty for union companies in terms of access to third country markets. the use of electronic auctions can lead to a reduction in costs, but only if the procedure is applied in a transparent and fair manner. i would also like to mention the possibility of excluding from the public procurement process undertakings found guilty of serious crimes or misconduct. i believe that all these measures will also have the role of providing wider access for union firms to third markets.
in writing. - by voting in favour of this report, parliament endorses the recommendations of the committee on international trade on the opinion of the committee on this agreement to amend the agreement on government procurement. today's vote is a step in the right direction, because it is a way of pursuing the enlargement of the areas covered by the agreement and at the same time opening up new prospects for european operators working with public administrations, guaranteeing the principles of fair competition and transparency of public transactions.
in writing. − i support the amendment of the public procurement agreement (ppa) because it establishes a higher level of clarity and transparency in public procurement and helps to combat fraud. only clear and transparent rules can protect us from fraud. when there are many rules, unclear and some not publicly known, the risk of fraud and corruption with public money is high. i am delighted that the ted european database will be used as a model by all apa signatories to create a free, centralised electronic database. corruption in public procurement must be reduced. billions of euros are taken out of the pockets of eu citizens every year. the direct costs of corruption for 2010 were estimated at an average of €18 billion in the following areas alone: roads and railways, water and waste, urban construction and utilities, vocational training and research and development, and in 8 member states alone (france, italy, lithuania, the netherlands, poland, romania and spain). therefore, i also support the exclusion of companies found guilty of corruption or professional misconduct from the public procurement process. such a blacklist is the key to preventing the fraud of our money. the list shall be updated and made available to all signatories on a regular basis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement on government procurement approving the conclusion of the protocol. the government procurement agreement (gpa) is, to date, the only legally binding world trade organisation agreement on government procurement. the current version (aap 1994) was negotiated in parallel with the uruguay round in 1994 and entered into force on 1 january 1996. the parties to the 1994 gpa are: armenia, canada, the european union with respect to the 27 member states, hong kong (china), iceland, israel, japan, korea, liechtenstein, the netherlands with respect to aruba, norway, singapore, switzerland, chinese taipei and the united states. the revised gpa text provides for a higher level of clarity and transparency and guarantees equal treatment in public procurement procedures between suppliers, goods and services originating in the states parties to the gpa. to this end, the eu has succeeded in getting the revised gpa text restructured to follow the sequential order of a public procurement procedure and to align the text with the eu public procurement directives. the revised text contains entirely new provisions, which constitute an improvement in the conditions for the participation of eu suppliers abroad.
in writing. −'erasmus for all' brings together all current eu and international systems in the fields of education, training and sport, replacing seven existing programmes with one. this will increase efficiency, facilitate the application for grants and reduce duplication and fragmentation. the new programme will focus on eu added value and systemic impact, with support for three types of actions: learning opportunities for individuals both inside and outside the eu; institutional cooperation between educational institutions, youth organisations, businesses, local and regional authorities and ngos; and support for reforms in the member states, modernisation of education and training systems and promotion of innovation, entrepreneurship and employability.
in writing. − the proposed programme integrates all current programmes and actions in the field of education: higher education (erasmus, erasmus mundus, tempus and bilateral programmes between the eu and third countries), school education (comenius), vocational education and training (leonardo da vinci), adult education (grundtvig) and youth (youth in action). it also includes provisions on jean monnet activities and a separate chapter on sport. activities under the 'youth in action' initiative should continue and be adequately funded. for reasons of transparency and independence, it is essential to have both a chapter and a separate budget line for youth. if the eu wants a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, it must also take into account the personal development of young people, their social integration and their active involvement in society. student mobility is important to introduce 'social criteria' in the award of erasmus grants, allowing students with low income to benefit from mobility periods without fear of lack of sufficient financial resources. for students working abroad, the combination of erasmus mobility for traineeships (part-time activity) and for studies with an increased grant would allow for a combined social, professional and academic integration in the host country.
in writing. − the 'erasmus for all' programme aims to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the strategic framework for vocational education and training in 2020. i believe it is important to strengthen the links between education and employment, between education and poverty reduction, and lifelong learning, by addressing unemployment (especially youth unemployment) and poverty, by promoting active citizenship and active ageing. there is also a need to improve accessibility to the programme, i.e. to promote greater participation by persons with special needs or educational, social, gender, physical, psychological, geographical, economic and cultural difficulties.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new erasmus for all programme and i welcome its adoption by the european parliament. it builds on previous eu initiatives to promote exchanges and the development of a european programme for education, training and employment of young people. the aim of this new system is to improve efficiency, accessibility and simplify the rules and procedures necessary to submit an application. erasmus is a major eu programme which has enabled millions of young people to have a rewarding travel and learning experience. it is one of the most successful initiatives, which has managed to gain a good deal of publicity, and i therefore welcome its longevity and the renewed dynamism of this new programme. in particular, i would like to emphasise that the new erasmus programme will have a stronger social dimension, by improving opportunities for education and training for young people from low-income social backgrounds and vulnerable groups. finally, it is good that the socialists and democrats have fought for continued support for non-governmental organisations in the education and youth employment sectors.
in writing. - with the approval of the new erasmus package, we wanted to strengthen one of the most successful programmes of the european union. with an allocation of some €15 billion over the next seven years, we expect to involve over 5 million students and to allow the most deserving to benefit from scholarships of up to €18,000 for master's degrees at the most prestigious european universities. it is one of the eu's most successful programmes and we are rightly proud of it. the new erasmus programme will provide more training and cultural enrichment opportunities for many young people of merit, who will be able to compare themselves with one another and grow up in a truly european atmosphere.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's intention to reduce the administrative provisions that exist in the current 'continuing education' programme, but at the same time i consider it inappropriate to change the name of the programme to 'erasmus for all' in the next multiannual financial framework. the name proposed by the commission could be misleading, as the name erasmus is well known and associated with the mobility of students in higher education. this could give citizens the impression that we have neglected areas such as school education or vocational education and training, while also having a negative impact on the success of the new programme and creating confusion among users. the new programme should focus on reducing barriers to accessing funding and administrative costs, while maintaining and strengthening the current names of the fields of education. this would give continuity to an already successful programme.
in writing. - i voted for this report. in its 26 years of operation, the erasmus programme has provided educational mobility for 3 million young people. since its launch in romania 16 years ago, over 41 000 people have benefited from this programme. i support replacing the current seven education programmes with one that brings together all european initiatives in the fields of youth, education and training and sport. this will reduce the existing overlaps and fragmentation. among the key actions, i consider the most important one to be 'cooperation for innovation and good practice', which aims to promote entrepreneurship. the formation of 'knowledge alliances' and 'sectoral skills alliances' between education institutions and enterprises will stimulate innovation among young people and long-term employability. partnerships between schools and businesses will produce the specialists the economy needs.
in writing. − the union's programmes in the fields of education and youth are undoubtedly the initiatives with the highest added value, with a high degree of public awareness and citizen participation. by agreeing with the council on erasmusplus, we can go before the young people of our countries, to encourage them to participate more in programmes for education and training, youth and sport. a 40% higher budget is a positive signal, which will allow a much larger number of pupils and students to benefit from funding by 2020. we're talking about five million young people, who we can open up new perspectives to in a dynamic world. one of the major benefits of this programme is the loan facility, which will enable any european student to complete his or her master's studies in another member state, with low-interest financing and an extended repayment period. governments need to understand that, in times of crisis, investment in education and youth is most profitable in the medium and long term and can use the model adopted by the european parliament. i congratulate our colleague, doris pack, for fighting for these goals and succeeding in promoting them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the 'erasmus for all' action: the union programme for education, training, youth and sport, adopting the ep's position at first reading. i believe that investment in education and training is essential in addressing the high levels of unemployment in europe, in particular youth unemployment and long-term unemployment. it is also important to promote a culture of lifelong learning by combating social exclusion and encouraging active citizenship. quality traineeships and apprenticeships, including those carried out in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, are necessary to reduce the gap between knowledge acquired through education and training and the skills and competences required in the labour market, and to increase the employability of young people. i support improving the learning opportunities of a large number of low-skilled europeans, in particular by improving literacy and numeracy rates and promoting flexible learning pathways and second chance education measures. i also believe that supporting grassroots sport and volunteering in sport will promote social inclusion, equal opportunities and physical activity that is beneficial for health.
in writing. − the development of creative and cultural industries contributes to the transformation of local economies, fostering new economic activities, creating new and sustainable jobs and increasing the attractiveness of european regions, cities and rural communities. the creative europe programme has the potential to leverage the cultural and creative sectors in terms of economic growth, competitiveness and job creation, as well as in terms of protecting and promoting european cultural and linguistic diversity. i believe that the preservation and enhancement of european cultural heritage should be the main objective of the creative europe programme, while supporting artistic and creative expression through mobility, movement and partnership, promoting cultural and creative operators and better access to culture by citizens should be retained as specific objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because bringing all the programmes in the field of culture together in a single framework programme will ensure more effective support for those involved in this field. this could help them to better exploit the opportunities offered by digitalisation and globalisation. on the one hand, we need to encourage cooperation between member states in this field, and on the other hand, we need to better protect and develop european linguistic and cultural diversity. ultimately, developing a sense of european identity could lead to more cohesion in the eu. i also support the promotion of european cultural events or established instruments such as the european capital of culture or the european heritage label. that is why i believe that, if used in a constructive and coordinated way, the creative europe programme can become a union success story.
in writing. −'creative europe' (2014-2020) is the community funding framework which will continue the current culture (2007-2013), media (2007-2013) and media mundus programmes. the programme will have three distinct components: media, culture and a cross-sectoral component dedicated to guaranteeing bank loans to the cultural and creative sectors and cooperation in the field of cultural policies. the new loan guarantee mechanism should lead to the creation of new financing opportunities for micro-enterprises and smes in the cultural and creative sectors. all potential project developers including video game creators, small theatre groups or individual artists will be able to access loans contracted with european banks and partly guaranteed through this programme. the culture strand of the creative europe programme will in particular encourage the professional capacity building of cultural workers, the operational capacity building of organisations offering international professional development opportunities, the transnational circulation of cultural works and the long-term development of audiences for these european cultural works.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, like the rapporteur, i consider that the promotion and protection of culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity in diversity, pluralism, democracy, peaceful coexistence and to strengthen its social model, social inclusion and sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries and their cultures. the contribution of the cultural and creative sectors to european gdp is currently 2,6% with more than 5 million jobs and the trend is increasing, which is remarkable in the current context of the economic crisis.
in writing. − the inclusion of the cultural dimension in european policies is beneficial for ensuring the preservation of european unity in diversity, pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, but also for strengthening the european social model, innovation, sustainable development and intercultural dialogue. we must not forget that the cultural and creative sectors contribute 2.6% of european gdp and there are more than 5 million jobs in the sector, with a growth trend, which can only be welcomed in the current context of the economic crisis. i support the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen transnational cooperation and promote digital platforms, to create more structured networks, and to improve cooperation between operators and universities and cultural institutions in the field of cultural, media and digital education, as well as in the field of film education.
in writing. i voted in favour of the creative europe programme for the period 2014-2020, which is the european union programme for the cultural, creative and audiovisual sectors. it will provide approximately eur 1.462 billion for cultural and media programmes. the action of the european parliament has reduced the scope of the budget cuts requested by the member states, and thus maintained the funding needed for these important sectors of the economy, compared with the previous multiannual framework. this is a major development. the new programme will bring together the existing media, media mundus and culture programmes under a common framework and will also create new financial instruments to improve access to finance through loans for creative smes in the various cultural sectors, which i welcome. the work of the european parliament and the social democrats has also emphasised the need to support education and the acquisition of professional skills in the field of culture, and to improve access to cultural professions, especially for young people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the new creative europe programme will bring together the media, media mundus and culture programmes, while maintaining their specific characteristics and identities. i am interested in the eu's support for the cultural and creative sectors. the report makes significant improvements to the commission's initial proposal. however, the biggest concern for my group and for me is the reduced budget for the cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs costa on the creative europe programme. the promotion and protection of europe's artistic and cultural heritage must necessarily involve the increased dissemination of works (cinema, audiovisual, television), which must be adequately supported from the financial point of view. in this sense, the medium- and long-term monitoring of the creative europe programme will enable us to verify the achievement of the objectives set and the return on investment of what can be considered as european added value with which the circulation of creative works is to be promoted and facilitated.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a regulation on the creative europe programme. the european union needs further investment in the cultural and creative sectors because of the positive impact they have on economic development. the programme will enable these sectors to take advantage of the opportunities of the digital age and globalisation, directly contributing to the europe 2020 objectives through innovation and job creation. artists will be able to access easier sources of funding, due to increased banking competitiveness in these areas and the creation of the financial guarantee mechanism. they will also be able to work more easily in other member states, actively participating in social cohesion. i believe that 'creative europe' will safeguard and promote cultural and linguistic diversity in the union and create more globally competitive cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. − with 7% of eu gdp and more than 8.5 million jobs, the cultural and creative sector shows the potential that culture has to contribute to the economic strength of the european union. european commission data show that between 2000 and 2007, employment in these sectors grew by 3.5% per year, compared to 1% for the overall eu-27 economy. the european union is far from being a world leader, like the united states and china, in increasing exports of creative industries. one of the reasons is that the cultural industry remains locked into the national space and does not take full advantage of the benefits of the single market. the creative europe programme, with a budget of eur 1,8 billion for the period 2014-2020, supports the cross-border potential of european cinema and the cultural sector and at least 100 million people will be exposed to european cultural programmes. this money will create new jobs for thousands of professionals and support the modernisation and digitalisation of the sector to be competitive in new economic markets.
in writing. − the union programme in the field of culture and audiovisual is particularly important as it will support europe's cultural and creative sectors to become more competitive, to take advantage of digitalisation and to generate more jobs. one of the objectives to be supported is to promote linguistic and cultural diversity at european level. coming from a country considered a european model in these chapters, i support their application also in relation to third countries that wish to join the eu in the future. moreover, 'creative europe' relies on cross-border activities, including the commercial dimension of culture and the mobility of works and authors. beyond the cultural aspect, new business models will be supported by the establishment of a financial guarantee mechanism. it is intended to encourage banks to provide loans to cultural and creative sector initiatives, including small loans to artists' initiatives. i come from a country where the film industry is well represented, where directors and actors win prizes at various international festivals and contribute to the prestige of european cinema. this is possible with the support of the current media programme, the purpose of which will be preserved in the future programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the 'creative europe' programme, which adopts the ep's position at first reading. the cultural and creative sectors are a source of innovative ideas that can be transformed into products and services that generate growth and jobs and can help manage societal change. to this end, i support improving access to finance for the cultural and creative sectors. in order to contribute to the strengthening of a common cultural area, it is important to promote the transnational mobility of cultural and creative actors and the transnational circulation of works, including audiovisual works and products, thereby promoting cultural exchanges and intercultural dialogue. the transition to the digital age has a massive impact on the way cultural and creative goods and services are produced, disseminated, accessed, consumed and monetised. in order to make the most of those opportunities and to adapt to the context of globalisation and the transition to the digital age, the cultural and creative sectors need to develop new skills and have wider access to finance to modernise equipment, develop new production and distribution methods and adapt business models.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, although it does not have such impressive allocations as the cohesion fund or the agricultural fund, the programme is particularly visible and in the current crisis period, when xenophobic, racist and chauvinistic tendencies are on the rise, the role of the 'europe for citizens' programme is all the more important. promoting a sense of belonging to the union and increasing citizens' responsibility for the european project should be a priority in the period 2014-2020. how member states will be able to work together to achieve the objectives of the programme will be very important. the promotion of democratic values, ethnic tolerance and european civic culture are the objectives on which the success of the programme depends. the involvement of civil society in the definition of funding priorities at national level is essential.
in writing. − the commission's proposal entitled 'europe for citizens (2014-2020) ' is one of the most visible programmes analysed by the european parliament's committee on culture and education. the objective of the programme is to strengthen historical memory and capacity for civic participation at union level, and it is the only programme dedicated exclusively to promoting these objectives at european level. many people are not sufficiently aware of their rights as european citizens, which prevents them from exercising them effectively. the results of a survey carried out in 2010 show that only 43% of those questioned knew the meaning of the phrase 'european union citizen', while almost half felt that they were 'not well informed' about their rights. i believe that the funds from this programme will help citizens to engage in civic activities by participating in debates and discussions on the impact of eu decisions on their daily lives.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal entitled 'europe for citizens (2014-2010) ' is a continuation of the current programme (2007-2013). i voted for the report on this proposal because, although it comes with a relatively modest budget of eur 229 million, it is one of the most visible programmes analysed by the committee on culture and education of the european parliament. the objective of the programme is to strengthen historical memory and civic capacity at union level, and it is the only programme dedicated exclusively to promoting these objectives at european level.
in writing. − beyond economic and social cooperation at the level of public authorities, civil society or individual citizens, the european spirit is the fundamental driving force of the european community. the core element of the 'europe for citizens (2014-2020) ' programme must remain raising public awareness of the union's historical memory, common history, common identity and values, as well as its cultural and linguistic diversity and the well-being of its citizens. i consider it useful to establish a constant dialogue both on the ground and online with the beneficiaries of the programme, ordinary citizens and experts, by organising debates on citizenship-related issues, as well as by setting up and implementing cross-border and international cooperation networks, because the european project and the development of europe play an important role in overcoming the crisis and putting europe on a sustainable development path.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution. 2013 is the european year of citizenship, during which several initiatives have been promoted to make citizens aware of their international and, in this case, european dimension. there is still much work to be done to bring europe closer to its citizens and to make them more aware of the tools at their disposal to be able to play an active part in the process of building a european identity.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a regulation on the 'europe for citizens' programme for 2014-2020. the european citizen must not remain a stranger to what is happening in brussels and strasbourg, nor to what the european construction is all about. we cannot ask the european citizen to finance the eu budget every year without explaining to him what its added value is and how the union works. it is not enough to make eu policy and expect it to be accepted and implemented. we need to bring the concept of the european union closer to citizens and make sure they share the motto 'unity in diversity'. to give an example, there are european countries where, unfortunately, romanians are discriminated against because of their nationality, even though they have been part of the eu for almost seven years. i therefore consider it important to fund transnational projects related to the common history of europe, intercultural dialogue, ethnic, linguistic and cultural diversity, and civic participation in general. encouraging interaction between civil society organisations and citizens from different european countries can limit discriminatory and racist attitudes. i believe that it is useful to continue funding twinning projects and the process of mutual learning through modern information and communication techniques.
in writing. − the rise of populism and euroscepticism in the european union in recent years is triggered by the economic, financial and social crisis and is at the root of a crisis of citizens' trust in the european union. to counteract extremist political currents, the european union must act and engage in a real dialogue with its citizens. article 10 of the treaty on european union stresses the principle of representative democracy and the right of every citizen to participate in the democratic life of the union. in addition, article 11 of the treaty sets out the union's obligation to have an open, transparent and constant dialogue with civil society. the 'europe for citizens' programme for 2014-2020 consists of two major components: (a) historical memory and european citizenship and (b) democratic engagement and civic participation. the aim of the programme is to strengthen european identity and increase interaction between citizens and the european union on concrete issues. the added value of the new programme is that it establishes a closer link with citizens by building transnational structures, without duplicating the consultation process at union level.
in writing. − at a time when citizens are expressing a high level of distrust in eu institutions and policies, the union must show vision and support civil society projects. the 'europe for citizens' programme is one such example, the overall objective being to enable all citizens to get to know each other and interact by engaging in common projects that strengthen the sense of belonging to the community. although the funds allocated to the programme are limited, i hope that we will be able to finance even small projects, supporting solidarity and the idea of volunteering in matters of common european interest. coming from a country where regionalization has many more steps to go, i support the importance of public decisions being taken as transparently and as closely as possible to the citizen. i want people to be able to express themselves freely, in any situation, on all issues of european, regional or local policy. also, in a context where euroscepticism is gaining ground, i believe it is important to remember europe's common past through debates on our history, our values and the future objectives of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council regulation establishing the 'europe for citizens' programme for the period 2014-2020. the programme has a budget of eur 185 468 000 and is implemented by the commission through the adoption of annual work programmes. the objectives of the programme are to contribute to european citizens' understanding of history and its diversity and to promote european citizenship and improve conditions for civic and democratic participation at union level. the programme shall finance the following types of actions, implemented at transnational level or with a european dimension: - mutual learning and cooperation activities (citizens' meetings, twinning of cities, networks of twinned cities; projects implemented through transnational partnerships; projects on historical memory with a european dimension; exchanges based on the use of information and communication technologies and/or social platforms); - structural support for organisations; - analytical activities at union level; - awareness-raising and dissemination activities aimed at the further use and exploitation of the results of the supported initiatives and at highlighting good practice. the programme is open to all stakeholders promoting european integration and citizenship, in particular local and regional authorities and organisations, twinning committees, european public policy research organisations, civil society organisations, as well as cultural, youth, education and research organisations.
in writing. − i would like to express my support for the regulation proposing to set up the connecting europe facility, which will finance investments that will help achieve the objective of economic growth and competitiveness in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications. through the connecting europe facility, eur 50 billion will be invested over the period 2014-2020, of which eur 31,7 billion will be for the modernisation of transport infrastructure, eur 9,1 billion for the modernisation of energy infrastructure and eur 9,2 billion to support investments in fast and ultra-fast broadband networks and pan-european digital services. the european union will in the near future have robust, high-performing and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems and infrastructures that contribute to the competitiveness of its economy, the dynamism of its economic and industrial sectors and sustainable, balanced and inclusive economic growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the development of energy and transport interconnections will boost the competitiveness of member states, thus leading to economic growth. i would like to highlight in particular the inclusion of the development of port infrastructure in romania among the priorities of the programme. the modernisation of waterways such as the main-danube will also encourage trade between the danube countries and their western neighbours. and this is one of the main objectives of the danube strategy, which i campaigned for with other colleagues.
in writing. − europe must recover from the economic crisis and return to growth. we need massive investment in european networks, which will not happen without pan-european investment from the european union budget. european money must be put to better use. the connecting europe facility will create real 'european added value'; it will help build railways, airports, seaports, modal interconnections, energy networks, pipelines, intelligent transport systems and broadband networks essential for europe; it will help develop connections that are still missing and break down bottlenecks. these investments will promote growth and job creation and create better travel and working conditions for millions of european citizens and businesses, help boost the european single market and encourage future investment. at a time when the world market is becoming increasingly competitive, europe cannot afford to delay the development of its infrastructure. we need to connect to each other to be stronger together in the global competition.
in writing. − i support the rapporteurs' view that there is a need for a european union-wide vision of a long-distance corridor that crosses national borders. there are currently a number of obstacles (technical, administrative and infrastructure) to achieving fluid, interoperable and intermodal transport, and these have negative effects on competition in europe by increasing costs and reducing the reliability of the supply chain. in addition, the more peripheral countries are affected, which leads to discrepancies in terms of territorial cohesion in the eu, and projects in cross-border sections are neglected.
in writing. − we talk more and more about europe 2020 and efficient growth, but we forget that only a small part of the key points of economic development (such as airports or ports) are directly connected to the rail network. without interconnection and integration of all regions in the union, in particular in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications, the union's economic growth will rapidly plateau, preventing us from achieving the objectives we set out to achieve. only through smart investment in infrastructure will we be able to move towards sustainable economic growth. i therefore consider it necessary that investment in union infrastructure focuses on a few key projects that provide maximum added value and i welcome the adoption of the connecting europe facility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing the connecting europe facility (cef). the cef will invest eur 29 billion over the period 2014-2020, of which eur 23 billion for the modernisation of transport infrastructure, eur 5 billion for the modernisation of energy infrastructure and eur 1 billion for investments in fast and ultra-fast broadband networks and pan-european digital services. the cef will be centrally managed and for the transport sector, eur 10 billion will be earmarked under the cohesion fund for the cohesion member states, including romania. the regulation includes amendments supporting the development of waterway transport, in particular on the danube. they support investments in the development of shipping, in particular for works and studies on a number of sections and the removal of existing blockages, the modernisation of ports on inland waterways, the provision of connections to the hinterland for the main-danube canal (kelheim-constanța/midia/sulina). i regret that amendments nos 136 to 139 were not put to the vote. with these amendments i asked for the buzau - brăila - galați section to be included in the central road and rail network and the via carpathia route to be added to the list of transport corridors and i also asked for the galați - giurgiulești section, including the bypass of the municipality of galați, to be included in the central road network.
in writing. − an accessible and efficient transport infrastructure is essential for the provision of operational transport services, is fundamental to free movement and is vital to the ability of all regions of the european union to remain competitive within the european single market. resource-efficient infrastructure use, intelligent transport systems, satellite navigation, the development of better logistics (today 25% of heavy vehicles still have to run without a load), completing 'missing links' such as cross-border connections and avoiding bottlenecks are some of the solutions to a well-functioning and efficient transport system. another prerequisite for a well-functioning transport system is the presence of an intelligent infrastructure. infrastructure investments have a very long payback period, providing benefits over several generations if built or designed correctly. i believe that the purpose of the guidelines is to improve the interconnection and interoperability of regional and national transport networks and, by implication, the functioning of the single market, by creating the conditions for economic growth and mobility, which are essential for the quality of life of european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and believe that the trans-european transport network has a major potential for economic growth at union level. my country still suffers from infrastructure, which sometimes discourages foreign investors, despite the competitive advantages romania offers. the development of new road and rail links in the period 2014-2020 could therefore contribute to a higher competitiveness of the romanian economy and ultimately to more jobs for romanians.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the key projects of the european union. it is the backbone of the internal market and is indispensable for the mobility of eu citizens, for economic, social and territorial cohesion and for generating growth and jobs. the current challenges in the ten-t are well known: significant delays in the implementation of many ten-t projects, difficulties in project financing in this period of economic crisis, lack of coordination between the various centrally or decentrally managed financial instruments, and lack of information and statistics on project financing, in particular on financial aid from the structural and cohesion funds and the eib. in view of the above, i believe that ten-t policy must provide a solid basis that will guarantee efficient and safe transport in line with the future requirements of citizens and economic operators.
in writing. − the free movement of passengers and goods within the eu would not be possible without the trans-european transport network (ten-t), with half of all passenger and freight transport taking place via the means of transport on the network. with a significant contribution to economic, social and territorial cohesion and job creation, the development of the ten-t requires access to, interconnection and interoperability of national transport networks. as such, it is beneficial for europe to establish a methodology with common criteria for the entire network and all its modes of transport. it is also important to promote strategic planning for the equal integration of all regions, taking into account their transport needs, which must be linked to the european dimension in order to avoid bottlenecks and to achieve the missing cross-border links.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report on the new transeuropean transport network. the text voted at the plenary session aims to transform the transport infrastructure in europe into a true european network. the guidelines in this report propose two major changes to the current policy framework, involving a real method of programming european infrastructures and strengthening the tools for implementing the transeuropean transport network. this two-step approach, consisting of a comprehensive network and a strategic core, should ensure the design of coherent infrastructures across the european union. in addition, this new network offers hope that a strong policy framework will produce appropriate governance structures that should lead to a commitment by member states to deliver these critical infrastructure projects by 2030. the socialist and democratic group has particularly stressed the need to involve regional and local authorities and civil society in european infrastructure planning, and i welcome this.
in writing. − the increase in the mobility of citizens and goods in the european union has also meant an increase in transport volumes. in this regard, the european ten-t transport network must respond to new needs and present new approaches, according to priorities. i believe that member states should have a degree of flexibility to allow them to target their investments in the transmission network according to their needs. projects of common interest aiming at interconnection at regional level must take into account the development objectives set by the regional authorities. it is also important that projects of common interest take into account regional disparities in order to prioritise investments in areas where they are lacking. closing the transport infrastructure gap contributes significantly to strengthening cohesion at european level. i would like to emphasise that the development of crossborder projects by connecting transport networks brings significant economic benefits to these regions and beyond. the pan-european corridor 4 crossing my region is the main east-west road access route, which is why i insist that the romanian authorities overcome the obstacles to completing this corridor and, by implication, strengthening cross-border links.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the union's guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network. the regulation contains important projects concerning the development of the romanian transport network. the amendments were included, whereby i requested the inclusion of the sebeş-alba-iuliaturda cluj-napoca - dej suceava pascani iaşi route on the central railway network for freight and passengers; the inclusion of the port of galaţi in the central ten-t network and the development of multimodal platforms for the ports of giurgiu and galaţi; the inclusion in the central road network of the ungheni - iaşi - targu-mureş - turda - sebeş connection and the calafat - craiova - bucharest section; and the inclusion of the constanţa - tulcea - galaţi - brăila section in the global road network. i also supported and called for the inclusion of a provision on bicycle lanes in the regulation. i regret that the amendments nos 199 and 200 which i tabled to the ten-t regulation were not put to the vote. these amendments called for the buzău - brăila - galați section to be included in the central road and rail network and for the via carpathia route to be added to the list of transport corridors. the galați - brăila - măcin area is the second largest urban agglomeration and an important industrial area of romania. galați is also a border crossing point with the republic of moldova and ukraine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because simplification of the european statistical system was a necessity, especially as regards agricultural and fisheries statistics, in order to align these areas to the new institutional context. although it is a strictly technical-administrative change, it was necessary to ensure interinstitutional cooperation. the delegation of powers to the commission will ensure a more rapid and effective application of the provisions in this area.
in writing. − the commission has undertaken, in relation to regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers, to review legislative acts containing references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, taking into account the criteria laid down in the treaty. to this end, the commission aimed to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics to align them with the new institutional context and also pursued the simplification of the european statistical system. the commission proposes a new structure of the european statistical system committee in order to improve coordination and partnership, in accordance with a clear pyramid structure, where the ess committee would represent the highest level strategic body. by voting in favour today, parliament has ruled in favour of this alignment exercise, but parliament has also ensured that the delegation of power is not indefinite but limited to a period of 5 years, tacitly extended by identical periods of time, unless the european parliament or the council opposes the extension.
in writing. − i agree with the general objective of eliminating all provisions relating to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny from all legislative instruments by the end of parliament's seventh legislature (june 2014) and also with the commission's proposal to simplify the european statistical system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on agricultural and fisheries statistics. the objective of the regulation is to simplify the european statistical system (ess). regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics defined the european statistical system as a partnership between the european statistical authority, which is the commission (eurostat), and the national statistical institutes (nis) and other national authorities in each member state responsible for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics. the commission proposes a new ess structure aimed at improving coordination and partnership in line with a clear pyramid structure within the ess, where the ess committee would be the highest-level strategic body. the commission should also ensure that the delegated acts provided for in the legislative acts do not impose significant additional burdens on member states or on the respondents. in the framework of the strategy for a new structure of the european statistical system, the ess committee established by regulation (ec) no 223/2009 should have an advisory role and should assist the commission in the exercise of its implementing powers. to that end, the legislative acts should be amended by a reference to the esc. before submitting a proposal to the esc, the commission should consult experts in agricultural and fisheries statistics.
in writing. − the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes (unece convention) provides a legal framework for cooperation on the common water resources of the states in the unece region through integrated management of these resources. the purpose of this convention is to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation in the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses and the rational use of water by the countries belonging to the united nations economic commission for europe. i support the recommendation made by the rapporteur to accept the amendments to articles 25 and 26 of the convention to allow non-unece countries to accede to it if they so wish.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the acceptance by the european union of the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes was necessary. this is all the more important as the european union is one of the few parties that has not formally accepted the amendment. the rational and responsible use of water resources is absolutely necessary, especially in relation to transboundary watercourses. another objective of the convention is to prevent pollution of these waters. in the context of the european union's global role model in environmental protection, acceptance of the amendments to the convention is a natural thing.
in writing. − the european union has been a party since 1995 to the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, which aims to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation for the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses and for the rational use of water by countries belonging to the united nations economic commission for europe (unece). the parties to the convention have expressed their desire since 2003 to allow states outside the unece region to become parties to the convention, with the aim of promoting cooperation in watersheds worldwide. the eu is currently one of the few parties that has not yet formally accepted the amendment of any un member state to accede to the convention, subject to the approval of the parties. the european parliament has already expressed its position on the amendment in its resolution on the sixth world water forum adopted on 15 march 2012. by voting today, the european parliament approved the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention to open it up globally and allow non-unece countries to accede to it if they so wish.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the acceptance, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes. the main purpose of this convention is to establish a framework for bilateral or multilateral cooperation in the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses and in ensuring the rational use of water resources in the countries members of the un economic commission for europe (unece). the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention allows for the accession to the convention of any state which is a member of the united nations, subject to approval by the meeting of the parties. the amendment will enter into force after acceptance by all states and organizations that were parties to the convention on 28 november 2003. once the amendment is in force, the convention will be of particular importance for the countries neighbouring the unece region, such as afghanistan, china, iran and certain countries in central asia. it is therefore necessary for the european union to accept the amendment now in order to open the convention globally and to allow non-unece countries that wish to accede to do so.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the iter project has the potential to revolutionize research in this field. as the european union has set itself, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the development of alternative energy sources, such as that resulting from nuclear fusion, could contribute to achieving such an objective. looking beyond 2020, further research in this sector could gradually replace traditional energy sources such as oil and natural gas, thus ensuring the energy security of the european union.
in writing. − europe must implement an appropriate industrial policy, allowing the participation of as many industrial companies as possible, including small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to encourage competition, prepare the european system for the fusion era, but also to enable them to develop adequately and develop reliable standard solutions and equipment. i also believe that europe needs to take action to support training and education in fusion science and technology in order to have the necessary skilled and experienced workforce later on, and to involve scientists more strongly in order to achieve the desired results in fusion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council decision adopting a supplementary research programme for the iter project (2014-2018). the proposed additional research programme shall include contributions to the construction of the iter facility, the purchase of equipment and facilities, as well as general administrative and technical support for the project during construction, participation in the initial commissioning and operation and other iter-related activities such as those under the expanded collaboration programme agreement. the programme shall be financed by a maximum contribution of eur 2 573 million (currently). i consider it important to achieve the main objective of the iter project to build and operate an experimental fusion reactor because fusion has the potential to make a major contribution, decades from now, to achieving a sustainable and secure supply of electricity to the european union. the agreement on the establishment of the iter international fusion energy organisation for the joint implementation of the iter project was signed on 21 november 2006 by the european atomic energy community (euratom), the people's republic of china, the republic of india, japan, the republic of korea, the russian federation and the united states of america. the iter agreement establishes the iter international fusion energy organisation, which has full responsibility for the construction, operation, operation and decommissioning of the iter facilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the research and innovation opportunities offered by the 'horizon 2020' programme are very numerous. therefore, its extension to the field of nuclear research is welcome. nuclear research is not just about the ability to produce nuclear energy. therefore, regardless of the options of the member states in this sector, i consider that nuclear research can bring competitive advantages to the union. i also believe that the involvement of the private sector in the programme is one of the conditions for its success. it will therefore be necessary to establish an appropriate framework for cooperation between public and private authorities.
in writing. − horizon 2020 offers the union numerous research and innovation opportunities, benefiting not only nuclear research but also other areas of research in the union. existing fusion projects such as joint european torus, which continues to provide the most accurate information on the work done so far in europe on fusion energy, should be further supported. existing programmes for sme funding, such as eureka star and some components of the marie curie actions, should be accessible to nuclear researchers. as regards funding, smes should not only have access to certain sme-specific instruments; all innovative funding instruments should be made available to smes participating in nuclear research. the leveraging of innovative financial instruments will be of key importance for all components of the horizon 2020 framework and access to these instruments by smes should not be hampered. the joint research centre should consider it its direct duty to undertake actions aimed at increasing the uptake of euratom funding by smes and to develop communication strategies to that end.
in writing. - europe wants to maintain its position as an industrial leader. the second pillar of horizon 2020 will help to avoid a shortage of nuclear skills. i support the rapporteur's position, which proposes, in the amendments tabled, the introduction of measures to improve the working conditions of researchers in order to avoid the risk of grey matter exodus. the european research council (erc) has and will have an important role in attracting and maintaining research excellence in europe, but it needs to be given the proper recognition and budget to achieve its objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on the european atomic energy community research and training programme (euratom programme) - 2014-2018 supplementing the framework programme for research and innovation horizon 2020. the euratom programme covers research activities in the field of nuclear energy (fusion and fusion) and radiation protection. the proposal is an integral part of the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation. it shall establish the total budget for direct and indirect actions, set the objectives of research and development activities and specify the instruments to support them. the financial envelope for the implementation of the euratom programme is eur 1 603,329 million, which is allocated as follows: (a) indirect actions for the fusion research and development programme eur 636,095 million; (b) indirect actions in the field of nuclear fission, security and radiation protection eur 318,048 million; (c) direct actions eur 649,186 million. i support the overall objective of the euratom programme to improve nuclear safety, physical and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in conditions of safety, efficiency and security, to contribute to other areas of research related to nuclear research such as medical research, and to secure the long-term future of european nuclear research.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because romania, as a country producing nuclear energy, has a direct interest in ensuring safety in this area. the nuclear accidents at chernobyl in 1986 and fukushima in 2011 have confirmed that there are a number of risks that this technology entails. romania applies the highest safety standards in the field, as proven by the results of the stress tests carried out by the european commission. however, further reducing these inherent risks requires both adequate funding and better cooperation between national authorities and facilitating the exchange of good practice in this area. i believe that this instrument will be able to lead to the achievement of these objectives.
in writing. − the instrument for nuclear security cooperation will build on the existing framework for nuclear security cooperation that the eu has gradually developed since the 1990s. the instrument shall aim to provide the union with sufficient resources to promote human and strategic security. in addition, it will effectively translate some of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy externally by promoting regulatory and other cooperation with emerging economies, as well as by exchanging best practices and standards. despite the proposed improvements, the need to ensure better coordination, consistency and complementarity of nuclear security efforts at eu and national level, as well as at the level of other international, local and regional organisations, in order to avoid overlaps and maximise the effects of funding, should be highlighted. the necessary safety conditions should also be created to eliminate risks to public life and health and to ensure that nuclear materials are not used for purposes other than those for which they are intended.
in writing. − nuclear risks are inherent in any reactor in any eu country or outside, as evidenced by the 1986 chernobyl accident and the 2011 fukushima accident. as such, i believe that europe must continue its efforts to enhance nuclear safety, in collaboration with other countries on other continents and with other professional structures. this will be beneficial to achieve the highest standards of nuclear safety as long as existing nuclear power plants remain in operation and new ones are built.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation establishing an instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety. i support the promotion of an effective nuclear safety culture and governance and the implementation of the highest standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection. i also consider it important to manage spent fuel and radioactive waste responsibly and safely, and to decommission and rehabilitate former nuclear sites and installations in third countries. under this regulation, the european union finances measures to support the promotion of a high level of nuclear safety, radiation protection and the application of efficient and effective safeguards systems for nuclear material in third countries. the union cooperation actions provided for in the regulation shall be implemented on the basis of multiannual strategy papers. the multiannual strategy paper shall be drawn up for a period of up to seven years. the document shall set out the union's cooperation strategy, taking into account the needs of the countries concerned, the union's priorities, the international situation and the activities of the main partners. multiannual indicative programmes covering a period of 2 to 4 years shall be drawn up on the basis of the strategy papers. the budget voted for the implementation of this regulation for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 631 100 000.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is necessary to provide financial assistance from the european union for the closure of nuclear reactors. in the current context of the economic and financial crisis, where the resources available to member states are limited, the union's financial assistance is intended to ensure a standard-compliant decommissioning. all the expenditure for the decommissioning of these three plants is exceptional expenditure for the states concerned and in order not to jeopardise the steps already taken and to complete the procedures, an amendment of the existing legislation was needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation on union support for the nuclear decommissioning assistance programmes in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. this regulation establishes the multiannual nuclear decommissioning assistance programme 2014-2020, which lays down rules for the continuation of the implementation of union financial support for measures related to the decommissioning of the nuclear power plants at kozloduy (unit 1 4), ignalina (unit 1 and 2) and bohunice v1 (unit 1 and 2). in accordance with the treaties of accession, bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia have closed their nuclear power plants or relevant units thereof and have made significant progress in their decommissioning. based on available estimates, the completion of decommissioning works will require considerable additional financial resources. the aid covered by the regulation must ensure the continuation of the decommissioning without interruption and focus on the measures necessary to implement the constant process aiming at the irreversible final stage of decommissioning, while ensuring the application of the highest safety standards. the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for the period 2014 to 2020 shall be eur 969 260 000 in current prices: eur 293 032 000 for the kozloduy programme; eur 450 818 000 for the ignalina programme; eur 225 410 000 for the bohunice programme.
the reporter. − i am proud to say that, with regard to the cohesion fund, we have managed to include, with the support of all colleagues from all political groups, key amendments that will not only change the image of the cohesion fund, as proposed by the commission, but will make this fund more accessible and useful to our regions and to the cohesion states in general. the new cohesion fund, worth €66 billion, will continue to support investment, the environment and the trans-european transport network. through our amendments, the cohesion fund has become truly a green fund, a fund for sustainable development. the commission proposal supported energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy only for public buildings and smes. here we have made a considerable effort and have been able to extend cohesion fund support to the public and private sectors. the housing sector accounts for 40% of the total energy consumption of the european union and generates 36% of total carbon dioxide emissions, so we considered it necessary to extend eligibility to private buildings to increase energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy use and to reduce carbon emissions. we have also achieved this because of the major benefits these measures have in terms of creating green, local jobs, connected to the population's savings, producing energy bill reductions and thus helping our states to achieve the objectives of the 20-20-20 strategy. i should also add the role and benefits they bring to smes. we have included other enterprises in the support mechanisms and coordinated the measures in the area of the cohesion fund with the energy efficiency area provided for by the regional development fund, so as to contain as many robust instruments as possible, with identical provisions in the two funds. our coordinated efforts with the erdf have led to another major change in the two regulations - i am referring to the eligibility of high efficiency district heating and cogeneration of thermal and electricity. this is fundamental, as these two systems are common in the 12 cohesion countries and, through a multi-funded and integrated approach, we can bring about a considerable change from today's situation. the new cohesion fund will thus make eligible a cycle that includes high-efficiency heat and electricity generation, distribution, transport and, finally, energy efficiency in the public and private housing sector, as well as in social housing. it is truly an example of the principle of the integrated approach and multi-funded funding being put into practice. we have intervened in another key sector, water and waste, where we have made eligible investments identified by member states that can go beyond the existing community acquis. finally, we introduced the eligibility of projects for soil protection and natura 2000, alongside biodiversity protection. all of these things allow us to continue to fund our transportation systems. we have moved towards the multimodal approach and multimodal connections. i would like to say one more thing about the connecting europe facility. here, thanks to joint efforts, we have introduced similar provisions in the general regulation, the cohesion fund and the connecting europe facility, so that member states can maintain in national envelope until 31 december 2015... (the speaker was interrupted)
madam president, cohesion policy is the union's main engine, contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. cohesion policy instruments are designed to put into practice concrete measures such as attracting investment, creating jobs and reducing disparities between regions. the objectives of the structural and investment funds for the next programming period ensure the concentration of a limited number of thematic priorities, seek a greater degree of flexibility and increase the involvement of authorities at subsidiary levels. in order to attract and implement large-scale public investment, we need to focus on using eu bonds to finance projects by attracting private capital for public investment. the partnership contracts will be designed to hold the member states' authorities accountable for their expenditure and, in order to avoid errors, i consider it a priority to inform future beneficiaries and to run training programmes for them. investments must aim at the specialisation of workers. through the structural funds, we have developed an effective vocational training system in romania, but we often face a lack of skilled jobs. congratulations to the reporters.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs, co-rapporteurs, the members of the committee and the members of the council for their hard, dedicated and professional work and, last but not least, i would like to welcome the agreement reached after this work, both in the council and in the committee on regional development. the reports we are debating today are based on an objective analysis of both the problems and the achievements specific to the current programming period. even though the negotiations were difficult and long, what matters in the end is that we have managed to improve the regulations considerably in order to have a more effective future cohesion policy. cohesion policy 2014-2020 accounts for around one third of the european union budget, reinforcing its role as the european union's main investment policy for growth and jobs, and for implementing eu policies. this is why we need to ensure that local and regional partners have a real say in decision-making at both national and european level, as they are the ones who play a key role in implementing programmes and projects in the regions. taking advantage of the presence of commissioner hahn, i too would like to emphasise the danube strategy, which is not only important for romania and bulgaria, but is important for all the coastal states. even if, until now, it has not been sufficiently popularised, it has not been sufficiently used, i believe that from now on it will be a tool that will ensure, even for that bridge mentioned here in the previous speech, calafat-vidin, an access road to a european or national corridor. finally, i would like to stress that the alde group has supported the need to promote better conditions for smes throughout the negotiations. we cannot therefore support an amendment which increases the european social fund at the expense of small and mediumsized enterprises.
mr president, europe's regions are generators of sustainable economic growth and jobs. by adopting common provisions, the european structural and investment funds will channel the resources allocated in an optimal direction and act as a catalyst for regional prosperity. member states will have €325 billion available for the next financial period. investment is needed in infrastructure and in local industry, especially smes. there are a number of new financial initiatives created to streamline the implementation of these funds, such as the sme financing initiative launched by the commission together with the european investment bank, which will use funds from cosme and horizon 2020, along with €8.5 billion from the structural funds, to generate additional lending to smes. member states should be actively involved and contribute their allocations to these initiatives. smes generate over 80% of new jobs in the private sector. member states should step up their cooperation with the commission and make use of the facilities provided by the partnership agreements to identify the right priorities and allocate funds accordingly in the most efficient way. i welcome the initiative 'smart specialisation strategy', which introduces a new concept and a new way of cooperation, designed to intensify the exchange of expertise, to create an updated space for interregional collaboration. last but not least, i would like to welcome the agreement on the six reports on the funds and congratulate those who have found a very good compromise in all the issues. (speaker was interrupted)
thank you, mr president. the cohesion fund in the new financial programming pays attention to supporting projects in the field of the environment and trans-european networks in the field of transport infrastructure. these are important priorities for the new member states, including romania. the aim is to promote investments for the prevention of specific risks, the development of disaster management systems, including cross-border management systems, in particular with third countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy. there are also important changes in the area of investments in the water and waste sector, in urban or rural development. however, this must be matched by an appropriate budget to combat disparities between member states.
the reporter. − mr president, the cohesion fund has been transformed substantially and positively by the exceptional cooperation between the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs, between the rapporteur and the commission, between the rapporteur and the council. that is one reason to vote on the cohesion package as a whole tomorrow. i will refer to an aspect that has been extremely important for the countries of the friends of cohesion connecting europe facility. here we have made sure that the amounts allocated to this project, which is essential for the future of europe, remain in the national envelope until 31 december 2016, and this is a condition for member states to prepare smart projects, projects with substance and in time so that we can together build better connectivity at the borders of the member states. both the cohesion fund and the erdf have paid particular attention to strengthening institutional and administrative capacity, without which better implementation of cohesion policy is unthinkable. these two elements, along with many others, give us solid, objective reasons to vote on the package tomorrow and i invite all my colleagues to do so. finally, i would like to thank commissioner hahn in particular, to express my gratitude to nicholas martin and peter berkowitz for the tense but very fruitful cooperation, to express my gratitude to all shadows and, at the same time, to express my many thanks to the ngos, to the representatives of the business communities i met throughout last year, and also to express my gratitude to the representatives of our region. thanks to all, because the cohesion package is now something tangible which can measure the differences in an effective eu policy, when this affects the very daily needs of our european citizens.
in writing. while i welcome the work done by the european parliament in the negotiations on the cohesion fund, i can only regret the funding shortcomings in the commission's proposal for the period 2014-2020, especially in the light of the ambitious objectives it has set itself. the cohesion fund is intended to contribute to the eu's action in favour of its economic, social and territorial cohesion. its contribution to the implementation of projects in the field of the environment and transeuropean networks in the field of transport infrastructure is decisive. i welcome the fact that some investments have been integrated into the funds, including energy efficiency support for private housing, which should help reduce the bills of our citizens. the establishment of a list of priority investments around predefined thematic objectives should allow the targeting of the fund's actions and improve its effectiveness. efficient coordination with actions under other european cohesion policy funds, such as those relating to urban development policy, will also be necessary.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate commissioner reding on her efforts to promote women's rights in the european union. from the outset, i'm going to assume that a woman should be evaluated by an employer solely on the basis of her competence. it is therefore unfair that many highly qualified women are not employed simply because they are women. it is certain that this directive will not affect the economic competitiveness of companies employing women in key positions and will guarantee equal opportunities between women and men. gender inequalities also occur in terms of representation in political decision-making structures at the level of each country. for example, romania has the second most imbalanced ratio of women to men parliamentarians in the european union.
in writing. we have been fighting for over a decade to ensure gender balance in senior management positions in large european companies. self-regulation attempts, which have failed in several eu member states, have led to the inertia of legislative constraints. that is why i am pleased that we are discussing today in the plenary the proposal for a directive which has been so long negotiated by the european parliament. built entirely on the principle of meritocracy, the proposed directive addresses sectors where women are underrepresented and the achievement of gender balance on the basis of equal competences and qualifications. priority will therefore only be given if the candidate is as qualified as his male counterpart, which will eliminate the risk of positive discrimination. the directive also gives national authorities the choice of the means to achieve the objectives, as well as the option of imposing appropriate penalties on companies that breach the provisions. the gender imbalance in business management is not only undemocratic and inefficient, but is a real obstacle to economic growth. i consider it essential to use all human capital, skills and capacities to respond effectively to the challenges posed by the current economic crisis.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i have, together with the collaborators, noted down the important contribution which the members have made. my colleague mr de gucht will certainly take them into consideration, mostly because members of the european parliament will attend the event as part of the eu delegation and so there will be room for further exchanges on the conference, during the conference and after the conference. there was a question concerning the role of parliament for ratification. now among the wto decisions to be taken at the bali conference, only a few will have a legal effect as per article 218(9) of the treaty. food security, tariff rate quota management, monitoring mechanisms for developing countries: only for these are council decisions foreseen. when trade facilitation will be concluded as a consolidated, new wto agreement, the eu institutions, and this includes parliament, will have to follow the relevant internal procedures. this is according to article 218(6) and this should happen six months after the bali event.
the reporter. - mr president, satellite navigation systems have touched all aspects of life, starting with road navigation, an application already familiar to most citizens. galileo will operate independently of other systems, thus contributing to the union's strategic autonomy. four satellites are already in orbit, 18 more will be in 2014, and the complete constellation will number 30 satellites. the first services will be provided from 2014. egnos, the satellite signal amplification system, is already providing important services. it will give more precision to the signals emitted by the galileo satellites and make them fit for critical applications such as emergency locating, aircraft landing, precision agriculture. a large number of economic sectors, in particular transport, telecommunications, agriculture and energy, are increasingly using satellite navigation systems. public authorities can also benefit from galileo and egnos in various areas such as emergency services, police, crisis management or border management. the development of the use of satellite radio navigation will bring enormous benefits to the union economy, not only through the growth of the space market, but also, and above all, through the development of the downstream market for applications and services. indirect benefits will also be created, arising from the emergence of applications in other sectors. new jobs will be created across the union and new horizons and business opportunities will open up for application developers, service providers and researchers. over the first 20 years of operation, galileo and egnos are estimated to generate cumulative socioeconomic benefits of approximately eur 70 billion. i proposed a breakdown of the budget for cost reduction and better financial management: activities related to the space segment, activities related to the ground services segment and the provision of galileo services, activities related to the operation of the egnos system, and activities related to programme management. the commission's draft budget provides for an average of eur 1 billion per year for the seven years 2014-2020. i have recommended to the commission a flexible approach to these funds, with the possibility of reallocating them from one segment to another up to a ceiling of 10% of the total amount. at present, some 6-7% of the european union's gdp depends directly or indirectly on satellite navigation applications, and these figures are growing by the day. the support needed for applications was estimated at around eur 300 million, of which around eur 150 million was for the promotion of the use of applications and the adoption of egnos technology throughout the union and another around eur 150 million for research and development. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the european commission has entrusted gsa with the task of promoting satellite navigation applications and services. as the application market will play a crucial role for the future of the union economy, i requested the agency to develop a clear and comprehensive action plan for this market. last but not least, i would highlight the role of good governance for the union's space work and the need to set clear objectives and roles for all entities involved: the commission, the gsa, the european space agency, the national agencies as well as the specialised ones. to ensure efficient operation, we need to ensure that all these entities work together and function in the long term, and at the same time that the role of each is clearly defined.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i welcome the fact that a maximum of eur 7 billion is made available for the european satellite navigation programmes egnos and galileo from the general budget of the union for the period 2014-2020. the use of satellite navigation systems goes far beyond the national borders of the member states and the services provided through such systems contribute to a wide range of social and economic services and activities. a large number of economic sectors, in particular transport, telecommunications, agriculture and energy, but also emergency services, police, crisis management or border management systems, are increasingly using satellite navigation systems. it is therefore important that the union supports the development of applications and services based on gnss systems. this will allow union citizens to benefit fully from the benefits of satellite navigation systems, while ensuring both the full use of galileo and the maintenance of public confidence in the galileo and egnos programmes. i welcome the agreement reached between parliament and the council, which establishes, in addition to the budget allocated, a new governance framework that clearly defines the role of the commission, the gnss agency and the european space agency. it also lays down new rules on public procurement and specific conditions of competition. the agreement is a step forward in the creation of an independent, accurate and reliable european satellite navigation system, providing practical solutions for european industry, disaster response, transport safety, environmental protection and public services. last but not least, i would like to point out that we must ensure the geographical coverage of the services offered by these systems for the whole territory of the european union before extending the geographical coverage to other regions of the world. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). ]
reply to a question under the blue card procedure given that these systems are european systems, they will certainly comply with the european legal framework on personal data. in addition, as regards the protection of personal data, i must stress that these new european systems will ensure greater accuracy, so that in practice european citizens will have more benefits than the current gps system offers.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to give some information on some of the points raised in the debate. the space industry is one of the high-quality sectors in europe, one on which efforts should be concentrated, and one of the key sectors of our policy for the reindustrialisation of the european union. i agree with mr rübig that the space sector is also a key sector in the internationalisation of our companies. i am from a mission for growth in vietnam, myanmar and thailand, and in those countries too, where i have signed many agreements, some of which relate specifically to the space sector, there is also great interest in everything that concerns our activities in the space industry. as regards the question put to me by mr caspary: i have already announced that by the end of next year galileo signals should already be used to provide services. we have already brought together all the industries in the sector interested in exploiting the galileo signal twice this year, once in london at the beginning of the year and the second time in july at the fucino, on the occasion of the test of the effectiveness of the galileo signals. these are many small and medium-sized enterprises and there is great interest on the part of the business world to create new entities specifically interested in the use of galileo signals in the various sectors: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are protected against the dangers of the nuclear power stations. our system began working with the italian authorities during the night, shortly after the flood began. as regards security, i too fully agree that the best guarantee is the galileo system, as it is a system managed by the european union, whose complete organization provides greater protection for data protection. as mr niebler said in his speech, galileo as a whole represents a great challenge, which began some time ago. we have now taken decisive steps: there's an industry that keeps producing. egnos the precursor to galileo, which makes better use of the gps system by making signals more precise is already operational; we are also working on the other project, copernicus. we will launch the first sentinel in a few months, so in the context of an overall space policy strategy, because galileo is only an important part, although it is perhaps the most ambitious project, it will be possible to use galileo, especially in the field of civil protection, together with copernicus, and the signals from both systems will make the whole european union safer. it will also be possible to export the use of signals from our european systems to help solve crises caused by natural phenomena. this shows that europe is at the forefront and to be able to have the first signals from galileo before the end of the mandate of this european commission means that europe is capable of managing a system. this is an important political achievement which enables the european institutions to demonstrate to the citizens of europe that europe is not just sacrifices, that europe is not just bureaucracy but guarantees a series of results which are in the interest of the citizens, providing them with more services, but also economic benefits if it is true, as it is true, that the savings guaranteed by galileo over the next twenty years amount to around 90 billion euros against a cost of about 10 billion. this is therefore an extraordinary achievement in economic and political terms, as well as in scientific and industrial terms. i thank mr marinescu once again, but also all the members who have always followed this matter closely, it shows that europe is capable of overcoming some major challenges. commission statement on the article 14 (1) 1. the the commission shall, when preparing the delegated acts referred to in article 14 (2), ensure simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council, carry out appropriate and transparent consultations well in advance, including, where appropriate, with regard to the practical effect to be given to those delegated acts, in particular with experts from the national authorities of all member states which will be responsible for implementing those delegated acts once they have been adopted or amended, and take full account of the opinions of those experts. 2. the in view of the fact that national security issues are particularly relevant when preparing, drawing up, amending and, where appropriate, giving practical effect to the delegated acts referred to in article 14 (2), the commission welcomes the intention of member states to designate as experts in this process the representatives of their respective national authorities in the security board for the european gnss systems, established by commission decision 2009/334/ec, and also welcomes the position of the member states that these experts, working together with the commission, should endeavour, as far as possible, to advise the commission on the basis of consensus. "
the reporter. - mr president, someone asked whether the investment made by the european union would bring the necessary benefits. yes, i think it will bring those benefits. i asked myself that question. i was saying, during the negotiations, that it's a sin to build a picasso up there, that you can't see, and the citizens don't benefit from it. that is why i have insisted on two directions in my report: 1. the development of applications - with the support of the commission, we have managed to introduce a substantial amount (over 100 million) for the development of applications; 2. informing citizens about what galileo can bring for everyday life and, at the same time, for economic development. it was also about data protection. galileo also produces an encrypted signal, which ensures the security of sensitive data. the commissioner said that this regulation was the first of the 2014-2020 budget regulations for which a political agreement had been reached. it is, and this was due to excellent collaboration with my colleagues and shadow rapporteurs, it was due to excellent collaboration with the commission, and i thank you for that. at the same time, let us not forget the irish presidency, which has contributed greatly to shortening the time of negotiations. i thank everyone who contributed to this report and i wish commissioner tajani success in putting up all the satellites needed to have a signal by the end of 2014.
thank you, mr president. i want to commend the work of the rapporteurs, the negotiating power they have shown and the whole process leading to a final agreement. even if the common agricultural policy 2014-2020 is not what we all wanted 100% of the time, i believe it is an important step towards reducing inequalities between member states, a policy that is fairer, more equitable, more environmentally friendly, favourable to small and medium-sized farms, to support young farmers and favourable to producer organisations. the commission also considers that the implementation of the new rules on the european union's financial instruments should be based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. i support the cap package and i think we need to show responsibility by voting in favour.
in writing. today we are voting on a historic agreement, the agreement on the new common agricultural policy. for the first time in its history, the cap is becoming fairer, greener and centred on the generation change in agriculture. we all would have wanted more - more for our country, for our farmers, but i welcome the agreement that has been reached after years of interinstitutional work. i am pleased that the new cap includes a programme for small farmers and that 30% of the rural development funds will be allocated to agri-environmental measures. i would also like to stress the importance of maintaining coupled aid for sectors in difficulty and thank the commission for the flexibility it has shown in accepting the possibility of granting state aid by member states where direct payments are still below the european average. but i regret the budget cuts affecting the new cap, we have a more ambitious agricultural policy but with fewer financial resources. in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the work they have done to reach this agreement, as well as commissioner ciolos.
in writing. the commission's work programme for 2014 should focus on measures on growth and job creation. the priorities announced for the 2014 programme are: completing the economic and monetary union, improving the justice and security framework, ensuring smart and inclusive economic growth and increasing the effectiveness of the union's external action. i welcome the fact that the signing of the agreement with the republic of moldova was one of the union's priorities in the field of external action. as regards legislative initiatives, the commission will focus on finalising the proposals already submitted to parliament. however, the commission will also present some new initiatives on: the union's industrial policy, modernising the rules on state aid (e.g. in the field of research and innovation), facilitating the free movement of workers, efficient use of resources, facilitating access to goods and services for people with disabilities, olaf reform, etc. we also note that 53 commission legislative initiatives are listed in annex iv, which lists the initiatives which the commission withdraws.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because an agreement was reached that was satisfactory for all member states. i would like to express my appreciation for the firmness with which parliament has maintained its position during these negotiations, but also for the flexibility shown by the council this time. a 9.4% budget cut reflects the constraints we'll all be subjected to. but i am sure that it will secure the commitments of the community bloc and the financing of priority sectors such as growth and job creation. last but not least, i would also like to welcome the agreement on the 2013 budgetary correction for the financing of payments from the eu solidarity fund. the flood and drought aid allocated to the four countries, including romania, is very important.
in writing. − i welcome the conclusion of the negotiations for the 2014 budget and parliament’s results secured in the joint agreement with the council. from the outset we have supported and asked for a responsible reading, and although the 2014 budget represents a cut of approximately 6% compared to the 2013 budget, this decision should be assessed in conjunction with the adoption of dab 2/2013 and dab 8/2013 which granted an additional amount of eur 11.2 billion in payments appropriations to the eu budget 2013. i therefore congratulate the negotiating team for their work and accomplishments, in particular: an additional amount of eur 350 million agreed on top of the council’s reading (in payments), frontloading for research, cosme and erasmus in commitments, heading 1a, acceptance of all the proposals for pilot projects and preparatory actions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure. the conciliation committee agreed for the commitment appropriations the amounts set at the level proposed by the commission in the draft budget as amended by letters of amendment no 1 and no 2/2014, with some exceptions, such as: - eures promoting the geographical mobility of workers and boosting employment opportunities - 21,300 compared to eur 19,310 million; - microfinance and social entrepreneurship facilitating access to finance for entrepreneurs, especially those furthest from the labour market, and social enterprises - eur 26 500 compared to eur 25 074 million; - support activities for european transport policy and passenger rights, including communication activities - eur 20,019 million against eur 16,019 million; - acceleration of the development of broadband networks - eur 10 000 million compared to eur 0 million; - strengthening research in future and emerging technologies - 246,003 against eur 241,003 million; - macro-regional strategies 2014-2020: the european union strategy for the danube region technical assistance- eur 2,5 million, including the financing of the following:
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation of this instrument underlines the crucial need for the union to have an increasingly flexible budget. the mobilisation of eur 89,33 million for cyprus is also a show of solidarity with an eu country that has continued to face the effects of the financial destabilisation this year. i believe that a strengthened participation in projects financed by the structural funds is essential and represents an important source of development for the cypriot economy.
in writing. − the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for financing from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 in favour of cyprus is necessary to ensure the continuity of european projects financed by the structural funds. the use of the flexibility instrument can supplement eur 89,33 million of the eur 100 million needed. this will ensure adequate funding for the important and urgent political priorities of the union pursued by parliament and the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a decision on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the financing of the programmes for cyprus under the structural funds by commitment appropriations under subheading 1b , with a total amount of eur 89,33 million. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing from the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, by exceeding the ceiling for heading 1b. we reaffirm our view that the mobilisation of this instrument once again highlights the urgent need for the union budget to become increasingly flexible.
in writing. − i naturally voted in favour of this act which has a major impact on my country as well as on the other member states. the budgetary adjustment will allow for the financing of special needs at union level. among these, i would like to mention the mobilisation of the solidarity fund for states that have suffered significant losses due to natural disasters: romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. my country will receive over eur 2,4 million in aid to cover the cost of the damage caused by the drought and forest fires in the summer of 2012.
in writing. − in romania, a prolonged period of low rainfall, increasingly high temperatures and numerous fires over several months led to the development of severe drought conditions affecting approximately 2 764 million hectares of land in 35 of romania's 41 counties, in addition to the outbreak of large forest and vegetation fires on 25 august 2012. those droughts and fires qualify as major disasters within the meaning of the regulation and fulfil the conditions in regulation (ec) 2012/2002 for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. i therefore welcome the vote in the european parliament's plenary on draft amending budget no 9/2013 to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the amount of eur 400,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations for romania in relation to the drought and forest fires in summer 2012 and for germany, austria and the czech republic in relation to the floods in may and june 2013. i believe that the funding of special instruments such as the eu solidarity fund should be budgeted over the mff ceilings.
in writing. − with the adoption of amending budget no 9 for 2013, we secured the allocation of eur 400 million for the solidarity fund for some countries severely affected by floods and fires (germany, romania, austria, czech republic). i am very pleased with the battle we have fought and won as parliament on the appropriations needed to pay the commitments entered into in the 2013 budget, a sine qua non that we have put before the council so that we can then discuss the newly approved multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 9/2013 is the main instrument available to the european union to deal with major natural disasters and to show solidarity with the forest fires and floods that occurred in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. the draft amending budget must therefore be adopted without delay, so as not to interrupt solidarity in the face of natural disasters in different parts of the union. i also believe that the eur 400,5 million should be financed by mobilising the solidarity fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on amending budget no 9/2013: mobilization of the eu solidarity fund for romania (drought and forest fires in 2012) and for germany, austria and the czech republic (floods in may and june 2013). draft amending budget (dab) no 9 for the financial year 2013 is intended to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide the sum of eur 400,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations for romania in connection with the drought and forest fires in summer 2012 and for germany, austria and the czech republic in connection with the floods in may and june 2013. we support the agreement reached in november 2013 in the conciliation committee to finance the mobilisation in question up to a level of eur 250,5 million in 2013 through payment appropriations from redistributions and up to a level of eur 150 million in 2014 through new appropriations. this will allow for the financing of research needs estimated at eur 200 million in the global transfer, allowing for the signing of a number of new research contracts in the field as early as this year. parliament maintains its position in principle that the financing of special instruments such as the eu solidarity fund should be budgeted over the mff ceilings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, the content of which will have a direct impact on my country. moreover, such decisions show how the eu can help countries and regions within it to recover from natural disasters. in the summer of 2012, significant areas of romania suffered from extreme high temperatures that caused drought. the consequences were the loss of significant parts of the crops as well as numerous forest and vegetation fires. the financial support provided by the european union solidarity fund will help cover the emergency costs incurred by the public authorities in romania and the other 3 countries.
in writing. − i welcome the eu's decision to mobilise the solidarity fund to combat the effects of natural disasters such as drought and floods in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic, and also the fact that a simplified procedure of trilateral discussions has been used to adopt the regulatory act on the mobilisation of the fund as soon as possible. i am also pleased that the regional development committee (regi), of which i am a member, was involved in the decision-making process, precisely so that meps from regi could take part in the decision-making process in order to provide support and a constructive contribution to the implementation of the eu solidarity fund. the total amount allocated is over eur 400 million and the money is intended to combat the effects of natural phenomena such as drought and flooding in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement reached on amending budget no 9/2013 which also provides for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. this instrument is particularly important for the mitigation of natural disaster damage, which in some cases can be extremely significant, amounting to hundreds of millions of euros. i say this all the more because in recent years, in the context of climate change, we have seen extreme events becoming more and more frequent in many member states, including romania. this mobilisation also concerns romania, which in the summer of 2012 was hit by a wave of drought and forest fires, which caused significant damage to crops and destroyed entire hectares of forest and vegetation, with negative consequences also for hydropower production. the total losses were estimated at no less than eur 806,7 million. i can therefore only support the allocation of financial aid to both romania and the other flood-affected countries, which will help to rebuild infrastructure and which is a proof of solidarity between member states that is extremely important in such situations.
in writing. − i support the commission's decision to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in favour of romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. in 2012 and 2013, these countries were hit by major natural disasters, suffering significant material damage. in the summer of 2012, in romania, due to drought, numerous forest and vegetation fires occurred, many crops were destroyed and the insufficiency of water resources affected the population and the production of hydraulic energy. the total damage amounted to eur 806.7 million, which is classified as a major natural disaster. i believe that romania, like the other countries, must benefit from the mobilisation of this fund in order not to interrupt solidarity with the states of the union in difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a decision on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (drought and forest fires in romania and floods in germany, austria and the czech republic). the interinstitutional agreement of may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. the eu has set up the eu solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people in disaster-stricken regions. romania has submitted an application to mobilise the fund, in relation to droughts and forest fires. germany, austria and the czech republic submitted applications to mobilise the fund, in relation to a disaster caused by floods. in the summer of 2012, many regions of romania experienced low rainfall and successive periods of extremely high temperatures, which led to drought, destruction of important parts of crops, forest and vegetation fires, and insufficient water resources for the population. thus, in november 2012, the romanian authorities decided to apply for financial assistance from the eu solidarity fund. the commission considers that the total direct damage caused by the drought and forest fires in romania amounts to eur 806,7 million and falls under the category of 'major natural disaster'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument is necessary and that the new financial allocations for certain member states under the european social fund in the current period are welcome. the additional funding to france, spain and italy will commit additional funds to the most important problem we face at european level: alarming unemployment, especially among young people and the low-skilled. however, when dealing with problems at european level, i believe that there needs to be fairness in the distribution of these funds, and i am referring to the fact that certain countries will feel disadvantaged or excluded as a result of such measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for france, italy and spain. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing from the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013 by eur 134 049 037 over the ceiling of heading 1b for the financing of the european social fund with a view to increasing the allocations for france, italy and spain for 2013 by eur 150 000 000. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the flexibility instrument to be mobilised to finance clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available under one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. the amount will be used to complement the european social fund financing under heading 1b.
in writing. − welcomes the adoption of the report on the implementation and operation of european satellite radio navigation systems which will help to improve safety, efficiency and reliability in sectors requiring high-precision applications such as aviation, maritime and land transport and agriculture. these programmes have the potential to create new jobs, stimulate development and innovation and boost economic growth in europe. the eu global navigation satellite system (gnss) built under civilian control will be completely independent of, but interoperable with, other existing navigation systems and will provide gnss services without interruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the services offered by the galileo programme and the egnos system have a variety of social and economic benefits, such as the development of trans-european networks in the areas of transport, telecommunications or energy infrastructures. so we are talking about the potential for industrial development and the creation of new jobs. another important aspect is that public authorities will be able to use these systems in various areas, such as emergency services, police or crisis management. moreover, these programmes are part of the europe 2020 strategy and their usefulness goes beyond the national borders of the member states. i believe that there is a need for better information to citizens about the two systems. they will contribute, through their independence from other existing systems, to the union's strategic autonomy.
in writing. − one of the main pillars of european transport policy is to stimulate technological innovation. applications based on gnss technology will exploit the potential of the infrastructure and services offered by galileo and egnos. road safety, toll collection, traffic and parking management, fleet management, emergency response services, freight monitoring, online booking, animal transport, precision farming are just some of the activities that can benefit from applications based on this technology. galileo and egnos will provide citizens with a european civilian alternative to the american gps or russian glonass signal, on which gnss users have depended until now. four satellites have already been launched and 18 more will be launched by the end of 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the implementation and operation of european satellite radio navigation systems. the galileo and egnos programmes are an instrument of industrial policy and are part of the europe 2020 strategy. the cumulative value of these programmes is estimated at approximately eur 130 billion for the period 2014-2034. for the period 2014-2020, the maximum amount allocated by the union for the implementation of the activities provided for in this regulation shall be eur 7 billion. the amount shall be broken down into the following categories of expenditure: eur 1,93 billion for the completion of the deployment phase of the galileo programme; eur 3 billion for the exploitation phase of the galileo programme; eur 1,5 billion for the exploitation phase of the egnos programme; eur 561,73 million for the management and monitoring of the galileo and egnos programmes. i would stress that in order to maximise the use of the egnos life safety service, it should be offered without direct user charges. in addition, in order to optimise the use of the services offered, the systems, networks and services resulting from the galileo and egnos programmes should be compatible and interoperable with each other and, as far as possible, with other satellite navigation systems as well as with conventional means of radionavigation.
in writing. − jordan is a country of strategic importance for stability and security in the middle east, but at the same time it remains extremely vulnerable to external political and economic shocks. in the context of the impact of the 'arab spring' on the jordanian economy, and at the same time of the new phenomenon of the influx of refugees from egypt and syria, it is essential to provide appropriate support to jordan and to promote the political and economic dialogue between the union and jordan. i support the provision of macro-financial assistance to jordan in order to strengthen the democratic, political and economic stability of that state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it will strengthen both the bilateral political dialogue and economic cooperation between the union and jordan. the arab spring, regional unrest and the significant number of syrian refugees have had a negative impact on the country's economy. the union's macro-financial assistance should aim to support the restoration of a sustainable external financing situation and thereby support economic and social development. through such measures, the eu reaffirms its commitment to supporting jordan in its political and economic reform process, and strengthens its dialogue with a country of strategic importance for stability and security in the middle east.
in writing. − bilateral political dialogue and economic cooperation between the european union and jordan is developing under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the most recent action plan for the period up to 2015, and on the basis of the broadening of the scope of cooperation between the two parties, given that in 2010 the eu granted jordan the status of 'advanced partnership', which implies the broadening of the scope of cooperation. jordan is a country of strategic importance for the stability and security of the middle east due to its geographical location and is therefore vulnerable to external shocks, both political and economic. it is therefore important to provide appropriate support to jordan and to strengthen the political and economic dialogue between the union and jordan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft decision on the granting of macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan. in 2013, the eu-jordan association agreement was complemented by an eu-jordan framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of jordan in union programmes, strengthening cooperation between the union and jordan. the union has provided grants of eur 293 million for the period 2011-2013 under its current cooperation programme in support of jordan's political and economic reform agenda. in addition, in 2012, jordan was granted eur 70 million under the spring programme - support for partnership, reform and inclusive growth and eur 10 million as union humanitarian aid for hosting syrian refugees. the union's macro-financial assistance should aim to support the restoration of a sustainable external financing situation for jordan, thereby supporting its economic and social development. the union's macro-financial assistance should support jordan's commitment to the values it shares with the union, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, sustainable development and poverty reduction, as well as its commitment to other principles of open, fair and orderly trade.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation as it represents a step forward in improving cooperation between the eu and the russian federation in the surveillance of the trade in drug precursors. equally important, such an agreement has added value in the international fight against drugs. it also lays the foundations for cooperation between the two parties in the monitoring of trade in certain chemicals and a mechanism for mutual administrative assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the russian federation on drug precursors. the proposed agreement aims to improve cooperation between the two major trading partners in the surveillance of trade in drug precursors. drug precursors are legal substances, but they can be used in the chemical process of manufacturing synthetic drugs. the international agreement between the eu and russia is concluded for a period of five years and lays the foundations for cooperation between the two parties in monitoring trade in certain chemicals and establishes a mechanism for mutual administrative assistance. this takes the form of the exchange of data, some of which is confidential. that information mainly comprises commercial data, but may also include personal data, such as that of the manager of a company. the eu has concluded and signed similar agreements with the united states, china and several latin american countries. the objective is to make the traffic more difficult by means of increased surveillance at the point of origin and at the point of destination of the chemicals and medicinal products concerned, without endangering the legal trade in those products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i believe that europol has both an operational and a political interest in concluding cooperation agreements with priority countries. our common goal is to contribute to a safer europe for the benefit of all eu citizens. but our fight against crime and terrorism is not just european, it has a profoundly global dimension.
in writing. − the draft council decision proposing to add the four countries (brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates) to the existing list with which europol can open agreements is untimely given the recent regulation proposed by the commission in march this year. under the treaty of lisbon, europol came under the authority of the european union, the european parliament and national parliaments. furthermore, europol has collided with cepol (european police college) by taking over its tasks. the addition of the four countries to the list would both jeopardise the institution's ability to reconstruct its structure and hamper the already fragile data protection process. the draft must not only be rejected but withdrawn by the council to demonstrate a genuine concern for the retention of personal data, which otherwise could not be guaranteed. although the council has set out the reasons why an agreement between europol and the four states would be beneficial, they are not well founded at the present time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft resolution rejecting the commission's proposal to amend decision 2009/935/jha as regards the list of third states and organisations with which europol concludes agreements. therefore, we call on the council not to adopt the decision, as the commission has recently proposed a new regulation on europol (communication of 27 march 2013 on the proposal for a regulation on europol and repealing decisions 2009/371/jha and 2005/681/jha). the new proposal for a regulation amends the provisions and procedure for concluding agreements with third states and organisations. the measures implementing decision 2009/371/jha should therefore no longer be amended. we also invite the director and the management board of europol to refrain, in the event of adoption of the draft decision, from initiating any negotiations on operational agreements with any of the countries mentioned in the draft decision (brazil, georgia, mexico, united arab emirates), as in the case of some of them there is no adequate level of data protection and the respect of the fundamental right to the protection of personal data cannot be guaranteed. we stress that any exchange of personal data with third countries or international organisations must offer strict guarantees of protection of privacy and fundamental rights.
in writing. − the regulation on the community legal framework applicable to a consortium for a european research infrastructure was adopted by the council in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and non-profit-making operation of european research infrastructures. article 9 of that regulation provides for a difference of treatment between member states of the union, associated countries, third countries other than associated countries and intergovernmental organisations, which has so far prevented an associated country or a third country other than an associated country from becoming a member of an eric (european research infrastructure consortium). i support the proposal to amend article 9 of the regulation as i believe that associated countries play an important role in the design and implementation of european research infrastructures and should be able to participate in the eric on an equal footing with member states. they shall contribute, through their support, to scientific excellence in research and to the competitiveness of the union economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is an important component of the horizon 2020 programme. i say this because under the 'innovation union' initiative we have committed to complete or start building 60% of the priority infrastructures of pan-european interest developed by esfri. the proposed amendment is important in this respect as it will also allow associated countries to be fully involved as members or hosts in the establishment or operation of the eric and to contribute to these infrastructures, which they did not have before.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 723/2009 on the community legal framework for a european research infrastructure consortium (eric). the eric regulation was adopted in 2009 to facilitate the establishment and non-profit-making operation of european research infrastructures. the regulation created a new legal instrument at eu level for the establishment of european research infrastructures with legal personality, recognised in all member states. article 9 (1) of the eric regulation distinguishes and provides for a difference of treatment between member states, associated countries, third countries other than associated countries, and intergovernmental organisations. in an eric, at least three member states must have the membership (article 9 (2)) and the member states must hold a majority of the voting rights in the assembly of members (article 9 (3)). however, an eric may be hosted by a member state or an associated country (article 8 (1)). the objective of the proposal is to avoid associated countries being unable to become host or member of an eric because, as it stands, their voting rights do not have the potential to reflect their financial support for eric projects.
in writing. − the process of using european funds requires first and foremost a more efficient legislative framework, capable of enabling economic recovery at eu level, without, however, affecting the medium and long-term prospects for sustainable development and growth. in this context, i support the commission's proposal to give strategic priority to the work done at this level and to simplify the procedures for accessing and co-financing these projects. at the same time, i believe that the sustainable development of the union through the use of community funds is not possible without an effective but sufficiently flexible legislative framework and control mechanisms. local authorities must also play an important role if the objectives of sustainable development and increasing the competitiveness of european economic actors are to be achieved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that its provisions will encourage a more efficient use of european funds in the period 2014-2020. european funds became for many countries the main source of investment and economic growth during this period. there are, however, a few elements i would like to point out, namely the existence of certain conditionalities, particularly macroeconomic ones, which could penalise the states. such instruments should not become a burden but should encourage a greater absorption of funds.
in writing. − europe is currently facing an economic, financial, social and demographic crisis with effects on energy, transport and logistics policies. these challenges can also be seen as opportunities for europe, and the reform of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 can make an important contribution to ensuring a sustainable economic recovery and promoting competitiveness, growth and job creation in all regions. this is why, in the post-2013 context, the european structural and investment funds (415 billion) remain the most effective and efficient investment instruments in the multiannual financial framework for creating growth and jobs and reducing pressure on national budgets.
in writing. − economic, social and territorial cohesion is indispensable for the smooth functioning of the internal market, the economic and monetary union and the harmonious development of the eu as a whole. this agreement paves the way towards a more pragmatic, effective and strategic-priority-oriented cohesion policy in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the new cohesion policy will also foster synergies with other policies, such as research and innovation, thus encouraging more efficient spending of funds. grouping all funds under a common strategic framework with common rules is a smart approach which i believe will better meet the needs of the regions than the cohesion policy of so far, which is perceived as being highly bureaucratic. the elimination of unnecessary red tape will undoubtedly increase the absorption capacity of european funds and facilitate the participation of smes in the projects financed, which will have positive consequences for the economy. finally, even if the idea of macro-conditionality is based on a good and legitimate intention, i believe that in the form originally proposed, it could have had perverse effects. i am therefore pleased that the possibility of cutting funds in the event of macroeconomic mismatches has been strictly limited, while at the same time preserving the incentives for member states to have responsible macroeconomic policies.
in writing. − proposal for a regulation laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund (cf), the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) which are subject to the common strategic framework, and laying down general provisions on the erdf, the esf, the cf and repealing the regulation. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 to the new legislation. the new regulation on the use of european funds brings a number of novelties which i regard as promising. for example, focusing investments on the europe 2020 objectives, simplifying procedures, reducing red tape, and greater flexibility in combining different funds at the operational programme and project level. the ex ante conditionalities are also necessary preconditions in the programming phase and will have positive effects in the implementation phase. i do not, however, entirely agree with all the elements of this new regulation. i am referring here mainly to the macroeconomic conditionalities, even in the current version containing the safeguard clauses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the amended proposal for a regulation laying down common provisions on the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf), the cohesion fund (cf), the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) which are subject to the common strategic framework (the so-called 'european structural and investment funds - esifs') and laying down general provisions on the erdf, the esf and the cf and repealing regulation no 1083/2006. this regulation is organised in five parts: - the first part sets out the subject matter and definitions; - the second part contains the rules applicable to all esi funds; - part three sets out the general rules for the erdf, the esf (the 'structural funds') and the cohesion fund concerning tasks, priority objectives and organisation; - part four sets out the general rules for the structural funds and the cohesion fund and the emff concerning management and control. the resources for economic, social and territorial cohesion available for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 325 145 694 739 in 2011 prices, of which eur 322 145 694 739 shall be the global resources allocated to the erdf, the esf and the cohesion fund and eur 3 000 000 000 shall be a specific allocation for the youth employment initiative.
i voted in favour of the report and i support the requirement that at least 20% of the european social fund be allocated to social inclusion and the fight against poverty. romania, like other countries, has a problem with the integration of the roma population. although member states have adopted strategies in this area, progress is still to be made, as we need more coordination between national authorities. instead of using the roma ethnicity as a campaign theme, we should focus on solving the problems they face. the effective use of the european social fund for intergovernmental projects in the field of education or health can bring more results than addressing the problem at national level. i therefore support the idea that national roma inclusion strategies should describe in detail the contribution of the esf to the integration of the roma population.
in writing. − the debate on how the european social fund is used must take into account the objective of sustainable development, with priority in areas or regions where there are major gaps, with an impact not only on the economic dimension but also on social inclusion. rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition or transformation, regions facing major natural problems or wide demographic challenges should be targeted by these funds. equally, for the use of these funds to be effective, more flexibility is needed in the allocation and access process, precisely so that the variety of regional issues can be addressed more consistently. the efficiency of the allocation of european funds also depends on addressing the specific problems faced by a region. it is also necessary that the process of using european funds respects the principle of multi-level governance as well as the imperative of subsidiarity.
in writing. − the european social fund is the european union's main financial instrument for promoting employment. since its creation, the fund has supported in particular the geographical and occupational mobility of workers. i believe that it is essential to support young people because, at union level, 21% of young people are unemployed and many more leave training systems without qualifications. i therefore welcome the decision to keep the esf as the instrument for social integration through vocational integration, using an approach that supports personalised or general pathways, with a view to achieving the objective of creating the maximum number of quality jobs. in addition, the social inclusion of unemployed people must be supported by ensuring access to adequate resources and services for all. the esf should also be used as a tool to facilitate the anticipation of future skills needs with a view to significantly increasing the number of highly qualified workers that, according to recent forecasts, europe will need in the near future.
in writing. − the esf, the eu's main financial instrument for promoting employment, particularly supports the geographical and occupational mobility of workers. this fund needs firm support of the total minimum share of 25% of the budget of the structural and cohesion funds. member states will remain the main intermediaries of esf policies given the importance of national employment policies. in order to respect the autonomy of the member states, they are free to organise the implementation of the programmes in accordance with their own organisation. in order to increase the rate of use of the esf, conditions for optimal use should be created, by encouraging all member states to rethink their funding priorities in order to increase the effectiveness of the esf, by establishing an esf (forward) check for micro-projects targeted at specific areas, whose results are easily achieved and measurable, by improving communication and information exchange with project managers and by ensuring better synergies between the esf and the erdf. the esf remains the instrument of social integration through occupational integration, through an integrated approach supporting personalised or general pathways towards the goal of creating the maximum number of quality jobs. support the social inclusion of unemployed people by ensuring access to adequate resources and services for all.
in writing. − i welcome the decision to simplify the procedures for the european social fund and to allocate european funds in line with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy and to achieve objectives such as social inclusion through employment, raising the level of skills and raising the level of employment. i also support the idea of supporting young people, because at union level 21% of young people are unemployed and many more leave training systems without qualifications. as such, the esf remains the instrument of social integration through occupational integration, through an integrated approach that supports personalised or general pathways towards the goal of creating the maximum number of quality jobs. in addition, the social inclusion of unemployed people must be supported by ensuring access to adequate resources and services for all.
in writing. i voted in favour of the revision of the european social fund (esf) for the period 2014-2020. the esf contributes to improving the cohesion of the european union by providing assistance to many regions in difficulty, including several in romania. i welcome the approach taken by parliament, which focuses on a number of limited objectives, including promoting employment, investing in education and promoting social inclusion and fighting poverty. these are areas which i believe require special attention. the social and professional integration of the populations most affected by the crisis, such as young people, residents of deprived neighbourhoods and rural areas, should be considered as priorities for the period 2014-2020. finally, i welcome the references that have been incorporated into the necessary collaboration with all relevant actors acting at local level, such as regional and local authorities, civil society, and economic and social partners. this is an important recognition of their role in the management and use of the esf and their influence on improving the employment situation and socio-occupational integration.
in writing. − the european social fund (esf) is the instrument used by the european union to promote employment and to help citizens effectively adapt to changes in the labour market, through the co-financing of training projects and employment support programmes. i voted in favour because i believe that employment, especially youth employment, must be the main objective of our political action at this historic moment of great economic and social difficulty. we must therefore promote employment, help businesses to create new jobs, support professional mobility and invest in the education of our young people.
in writing. − the adoption of the proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a positive development. in addition to the investment in infrastructure, which i believe is vital for real cohesion, we also need investment in human capital. the approximately eur 74 billion to be invested over the next seven years through the european social fund can solve some of the eu's societal problems, notably the social inclusion of vulnerable groups, including roma. combating youth unemployment will also be of paramount importance, especially as young people are the future of the european union. i welcome the combination of european social fund funding with another €3 billion for the youth guarantee. the social innovation component will also be useful, in particular as a possible solution to labour market and education challenges. i also believe it is vital to continue to fund the development of administrative capacity in the member states through the european social fund. in the current programming period, many of the problems of absorbing european funds stem from insufficient administrative capacity in public administrations.
in writing. − i voted in continued and growing support of the european social fund as a means to increase human capital and build up member state economies from the bottom. around 21% of the young population in the eu is unemployed – hit hard by the global recession and they continue to struggle in the recovery. hundreds of thousands of romanians have benefited in one way or another from esf-funded programmes. one such programme funded training for 1 900 romanian railway workers, improving their qualifications and providing necessary certifications. the results, however, stretch much further than a few certifications. thanks to the programme, the railways are more efficient, which has led to better connectivity and mobility across romania and into other member states, which will foster greater business and economic growth. certainly, many of those 1 900 railway workers were of the young, unemployed generation i mentioned. however, it is quite clear that much more has to be done to address the employment issue still at hand. in part due to the increased focus on and funding for unemployed youth, i have voted in support of the esf and the continuation of its goals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the european social fund (esf) and repealing regulation no 1081/2006. the regulation lays down the mission of the esf, including the 'youth employment' initiative, the scope of the support provided through it, specific provisions and the types of expenditure eligible for assistance. the beneficiaries of the esf are persons, including disadvantaged persons, such as long-term unemployed persons, persons with disabilities, migrants, ethnic minorities, marginalised communities and persons of all ages, who are facing poverty and social exclusion. the esf shall also provide support to workers, enterprises, including social economy actors, and entrepreneurs, as well as systems and structures, to facilitate their adaptation to new challenges, including the reduction of skills gaps, and to promote good governance, social progress and the implementation of reforms, in particular in the fields of employment, education, training and social policies. the esf shall support the following investment priorities: promoting sustainable and quality jobs and supporting labour mobility; promoting social inclusion, combating poverty and any form of discrimination; investing in education, training and vocational training for skills and lifelong learning; increasing the institutional capacity of public authorities and stakeholders and the efficiency of public administration.
in writing. − one of the main challenges facing the european union, the member states and european societies is not only to manage the effects of the recession, but also the social impact of the falling living standards and rising unemployment rates in the member states and the ominous signals of increasing social exclusion. in these circumstances, i believe that prioritising funding allocations in pursuit of the europe 2020 objectives can provide solutions to many of the economic and social problems we face. investment in it&c, research and innovation, supporting smes in the deployment of low greenhouse gas technologies has the potential to create the jobs that european citizens need, but also to boost member states' economic growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because closing the gaps between european regions is the main objective of the european regional development fund. unfortunately, the current executive in bucharest does not aim to strengthen the regions' capacity to attract as much funds as possible from the future budget. the so-called administrative reform, which theoretically aims at an increase in autonomy of the regions, is in fact only a pretext to give discretionary powers to the local leaders of the current coalition. and the effects will be felt in particular on the absorption rate of community funds. i hope that when the operational programmes are approved, the european commission will look very closely at how european money is being managed by the authorities concerned.
in writing. − cohesion policy is one of the main investment instruments to support the union's key priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy. in accordance with articles 174 and 176 tfeu, the european regional development fund (erdf) is intended to reduce disparities between the levels of development of regions and the degree of backwardness of the least-favoured regions, so that its actions must be channelled in particular to the countries and regions where needs are greatest. the commission proposal for the 2014-2020 erdf regulation introduced a new element by introducing a thematic concentration and by strengthening the urban dimension. the proposed thematic focus has meant focusing on a limited number of thematic objectives, further detailed in investment priorities. these improvements will ensure flexibility and allow for better tailoring of erdf support to the different needs of regions across the eu.
in writing. − cohesion policy is one of the main investment instruments to support the union's key priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy. as environmental protection and sustainable development are major elements of these priorities, european cohesion policy is the most appropriate means to support the transition to a competitive, low-carbon economy and investment in climate change mitigation and adaptation measures, as well as environmental protection and biodiversity and sustainable urban development. the allocation of 6% of the available resources to less developed regions for the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors cannot be considered sufficient, as it is precisely in these regions that more investment is needed to reduce emissions. it is therefore essential to increase the percentage to 15%. particular attention shall be paid to common indicators for the erdf, which shall be clearly defined and in a manner that allows an objective quantitative assessment of the results achieved on environmental priorities. with regard to the prevention and management of climate change risks, the focus should not be exclusively on civil protection measures, but more attention should be paid to increasing the prevention capacity and resilience of ecosystems.
in writing. − i believe that introducing thematic concentration and strengthening the urban dimension are two important elements of the commission's proposal for the 2014-2020 erdf regulation. the thematic concentration will thus facilitate the identification of a limited number of thematic objectives, which will subsequently be identified as investment priorities, with the aim of contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. on the other hand, the inclusion of the enhanced urban dimension will support the allocation of a 5% part of the erdf resources for the management of cities and the implementation of innovative actions in the field of sustainable urban development. in addition, flexibility will be ensured to better tailor erdf support to the needs of european regions.
in writing. the objective of the european regional development fund (erdf) is to help reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least favoured regions. it is an important support for these regions and i therefore welcome its adoption for the period 2014-2020. these regions correspond to rural areas, areas in industrial transition and regions with severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps. under its main objective of investing in growth and jobs, erdf support will focus on four priority objectives: research and innovation, information and communication technologies, small and medium-sized enterprises and the promotion of a low-carbon economy. in particular, i would like to welcome the inclusion in the revision of this fund of specific support for urban areas, by supporting integrated actions in the economic, environmental, climate, demographic and social fields. some urban areas with economic and social difficulties should benefit from this support in a positive way, particularly 'functional urban areas' where integrated actions for sustainable urban development will be implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report after our group supported the rules of procedure which had been adopted in committee. the erdf's objectives include reducing qualitative and social disparities, combating poverty and ensuring social and economic stability in the regions concerned. the achievement of these objectives in the years ahead will be important for the development of the territories, which will have to be accompanied by careful and correct legislative activity by the local institutions responsible for this.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a regulation on specific provisions for the european regional development fund (erdf) and the investment for growth and jobs goal and repealing regulation (ec) no 1080/2006, as part of the legislative package on the future cohesion policy. the focus of investment on certain key areas of the europe 2020 strategy adds value to european policies and to the union's credibility, especially when taking into account the budget allocated to the erdf for the period 2014-2020. it is appropriate to set different minimum allocations per category of regions in terms of thematic objectives. the regions of europe have different degrees of development and, therefore, different needs, so that it is necessary to set the minimum ceiling of 50% for the poorer regions, compared to 80% in the more developed ones. the thematic objectives set out in the regulation are also appropriate to current needs at european level, namely energy efficiency and renewable energy, innovative research and support for smes. the financial instruments which can be financed from the erdf budget will be extremely useful for the latter. one such example is the jeremie programme, carried out in collaboration with the european investment bank, and the lending component it proposes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on specific provisions for the european regional development fund and the investment for growth and jobs goal (erdf) and repealing regulation no 1080/2006. the regulation sets out the scope of the erdf's intervention and also defines a list of activities which will not be eligible for support. it defines the investment priorities for each of the thematic objectives. the regulation also provides for the following mechanism: - more developed regions whose gdp per capita is more than 90% of the average gdp of the eu-27 will spend at least 80% of resources on energy efficiency and renewable energy, research and development and support for smes, of which 20% will be devoted to energy efficiency and renewable energy. - transition regions whose gdp per capita is between 75% and 90% of the average gdp of the eu-27 will use 60% and 15% of the above resources respectively; - less developed regions whose gdp per capita is less than 75% of the average gdp of the eu-27 will use 50% and 12% of the above resources respectively.
in writing. − the european union, together with the member states, has made very clear commitments to reduce carbon emissions under the europe 2020 strategy. in these circumstances, i believe that extending the scope of the community framework to support energy efficiency in buildings and the widespread deployment of renewable energy is a measure that helps european states to meet these obligations that are essential to promoting sustainable development. i believe that the proposal to prioritise the allocation of funds has real value in increasing the level of efficiency of this european initiative. the phasing-out of projects, which allows for more coherent evaluation and verification, can also serve this purpose. another important point i support is the support, as proposed, for macro-regional development projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the revision of the current programme will further encourage cooperation between the member states. the best example is the danube strategy, which led to the completion of major projects such as the calafat-vidin bridge. but we must not neglect cooperation with third countries either. while there are other financial instruments that finance such actions, the european regional development fund can help to achieve important objectives at the union's borders. finally, the economic and social development of the regions neighbouring the european union can lead to prosperity, including for the member states. as you know, many regions bordering the union, as is the case with certain areas of romania, are in a more difficult economic situation. and encouraging cooperation with neighbouring countries can help to reduce the gaps with the rest of the union.
in writing. − the erdf contributes to promoting social and economic stability in crossborder regions, in particular through actions aimed at promoting cohesion between communities. i therefore welcome the proposal to exploit the untapped potential of the border area, as well as to develop cultural exchanges, integrate cross-border labour markets, support sustainable cross-border transport networks and, in particular, encourage sustainable cross-border tourism in close correlation with the improvement of tourist infrastructure. on the other hand, i support the proposal to develop cross-border research and innovation groups, cooperation between universities or health centres and the development of specific projects in the tourism and fair trade sectors. all this will ultimately strengthen the process of cooperation for the overall harmonious development of the union.
in writing. − the adoption of a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down specific provisions for support from the european regional development fund (erdf) for the european territorial cooperation objective comes at a time when member states are not exactly receptive to transnational programmes. the economic crisis has put pressure on local government budgets, and transnational projects are often perceived as transferring money to the neighbouring state. this is probably one of the reasons behind the low budget for the territorial cooperation objective. however, cohesion policy does not stop at the border; often neighbouring states and regions face similar challenges, which can be solved through jointly funded projects. and the allocation of over 74% of the territorial cooperation objective budget to transnational projects is not only appropriate but above all in line with the real situation. greater flexibility for the technical assistance component at the level of operational programmes financed under the territorial cooperation objective is also welcomed. as regards the peace programme, it has proved its usefulness and its continuation is appropriate. based on the experience gained in programming periods, it is important to ensure that operational programmes financed under this objective will not be affected by the automatic decommitment rule.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the regulation on specific provisions for support from the european regional development fund (erdf) for the european territorial cooperation objective. under the european territorial cooperation objective, the erdf shall support: - cross-border cooperation between border regions to promote integrated regional development between neighbouring land and maritime border regions of two or more member states or between neighbouring border regions of at least one member state and a third country at the external borders of the union, other than those covered by programmes under the external financial instruments of the union; - transnational cooperation in larger transnational territories involving national, regional and local authorities and also covering maritime crossborder cooperation in cases not covered by crossborder cooperation, with a view to achieving a higher degree of territorial integration of these territories; - interregional cooperation; the resources for the european territorial cooperation objective shall amount to eur 8 948 259 330 and shall be allocated as follows: - eur 6 626 631 760 for cross-border cooperation; - eur 1 821 627 570 for transnational cooperation; - eur 500 000 000 for interregional cooperation.
the european union's cohesion policy is in fact an essential corollary of enlargement policy, since by welcoming economically less developed countries into its fold, the eu has also undertaken to ensure that they catch up. regional development instruments are a form of solidarity between europeans and i am convinced that they will continue to contribute to reducing the development gap between member states. unfortunately, some member states used only a very small percentage of the available resources in the 2007-2013 cycle. the commission has also been involved in a number of projects in the field of sustainable development, including the development of the european union's regional development programmes. this practice is not just a problem for the member state concerned, as the incompetence of the member state authorities is detrimental to the eu as a whole and to cohesion policy. i hope that in the new programming period we will find solutions to these problems, including through greater control of the work of the national authorities.
i voted in favour of the report because the cohesion fund plays a major role in achieving sustainable economic growth and, in the current context of crisis, where the socialist government in my country is drastically reducing investment, community money is vital. although romania has achieved an increase of over 10% in the structural and cohesion funds, it is time to create an appropriate framework for their absorption. i would like to point out that energy efficiency projects in the housing sector will continue to be eligible for funding. romania is directly interested in such projects, especially since the former right-wing governments have started extensive programmes of thermal rehabilitation of housing blocks. through them, many romanians have been able to enjoy lower heating costs.
in writing. − one of the main objectives of the european project, reaffirmed not only in the union's treaties and programming documents but also in its strategies for social or economic action, is to increase cohesion between european regions. in the context of the prolonged effects of the economic recession, this objective becomes all the more important. moreover, the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises become potential beneficiaries of these forms of financing can not only encourage research and development in this sector, thus contributing to increasing the competitiveness of european economic actors, but can also provide the necessary conditions for job creation, given that unemployment, especially among young people, is one of the most serious problems facing the union today.
in writing. − the regions of europe differ significantly in their level of development (measured as gdp per capita), productivity and employment. the european union has a task to reduce these differences. the cohesion fund plays an important role in this respect. it helps the least developed member states to integrate into the european single market by financing transport infrastructure projects and supporting environmental compliance measures. i believe that cohesion policy must remain an essential component of the financial framework proposed by the commission for the period 2014-2020 and the financial allocations for this fund must reflect this.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the cohesion fund provisions will allow the development of transport projects under the connecting europe facility belonging to countries receiving support from the cohesion fund, as they will contribute to the free movement of citizens and goods within the union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy.
in writing. − the cohesion fund is part of the funds of the new common strategic framework (csf), which comprises the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. the cohesion fund, which is mainly used to reduce economic and social disparities and stabilise a country's economy, provides for a list of investment priorities, such as promoting resource efficiency and protecting the environment. another amendment concerns the admission of all companies, which are not necessarily smes, to energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
in writing. − the cohesion fund plays an important role in regional policy, particularly as it finances the major infrastructure projects so necessary for economic development in eastern europe. the funding of the connecting europe facility including from the cohesion fund will contribute to the further development of pan-european transport corridors. while financing infrastructure projects must remain a priority for many of the eligible countries, including romania, the extension of the cohesion fund's scope is a step towards achieving the europe 2020 objectives. in practice, the possibility to finance energy efficiency projects or the use of energy from renewable sources also in the housing sector gives national authorities more flexibility in setting their funding priorities and meeting their national needs. in particular, even among the cohesion fund eligible countries, there are major differences between their environmental and transport infrastructures. given the importance of alignment with the community environmental acquis, investments in the water and waste sectors, as well as support for natura 2000 or green transport will be welcomed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the cohesion fund and repealing regulation (ec) no 1084/2006 (com (2011) 0612 c7-0325/2011 2011/0274 cod). this regulation establishes a cohesion fund to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union in order to promote sustainable development. it defines the mission of the cohesion fund and the scope of its contributions to the investment for growth and jobs goal referred to in article 81 of the regulation on common provisions for the european funds (cfr). the cohesion fund supports member states whose gni per capita is less than 90% of the eu-27 average to invest in ten-t transport networks and in the environment. part of the cohesion fund budget (eur 10 billion) will be allocated to finance core transport networks under the connecting europe facility. the cohesion fund may also support energy projects, provided that they clearly demonstrate environmental benefits, for example by promoting energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy. in 2016, the commission shall review the eligibility of member states for the cohesion fund on the basis of the union gni figures for the period 2012-2014 for the eu-27.
in writing. − i support the commission's proposal to amend the legislation governing european territorial cooperation groups. they can become one of the most effective instruments for promoting the social and economic development of the european union by strengthening the regional and social cohesion of the regions. in this way, the union and the member states are moving closer to the targets set in the europe 2020 strategy. the capacity of these groups to reduce barriers to institutional cooperation is something that needs to be encouraged by european and member state authorities alike. in particular, in regions facing significant economic, social or demographic problems, the promotion of cohesion through european territorial cooperation groups needs to be consistently supported, in particular through measures relating to labour law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it is a step forward towards clarifying the role, powers and benefits of territorial cooperation groups. whether we are talking about partnerships funded by community or national funds, it is clear that the effectiveness of such forms of cooperation is enhanced by the present proposal. another positive aspect is the clarification of the conditions under which third states can participate in such groupings. romania, being located on the border of the union, is directly interested in cooperation with the republic of moldova, but also with serbia and ukraine. in this context, i must stress the importance of coordinating support from the european regional development fund with that provided by the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. the sustainable development of the union's border regions cannot be achieved without also involving neighbouring third countries. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, particularly as some of them, such as the republic of moldova, have embarked on the european path and the support provided by the union is vital.
in writing. − it is beneficial that the new provisions on european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtcs) will be open to all public undertakings providing public services (economic services of general interest), including those governed by private law. this will facilitate and stimulate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy and water supply, health, education and training. i also welcome the fact that a clear, precise and more comprehensive definition of the participation of third countries has been proposed and approved. third countries in the eu's neighbourhood will thus be able to become members of the egtc, regardless of whether or not partners from one or more member states are involved.
in writing. − the adoption of the european parliament resolution on european groupings for territorial cooperation (egtcs) will facilitate the implementation of projects financed under objective ii, territorial cooperation. as an implementation tool, egtcs are not widely used, mainly because of their complexity and legislative vacuum. the legal clarifications introduced by the new regulation are therefore welcome. for example, the fact that the new regulation makes a clear distinction between the statute and the convention, by stipulating that only the convention, not the statute, will be subject to formal approval. i also welcome the clarifications concerning egtc staff, whereby members of a group can choose between the law of the headquarters country, the law of the place where the employees work or the national law of the respective employees. this provision was also available until now but was not fully understood due to the incomplete wording. i consider it beneficial to extend the egtc eligibility to non-eu countries. this provision will make it possible to combine different sources of funding, alongside the structural and cohesion funds, and to implement instruments of common interest, including in the framework of the danube strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 1082/2006 on a european grouping of territorial cooperation (egtc) with regard to clarifying, simplifying and improving the constitution and implementation of such groupings. i consider that egtcs have the potential to encourage the promotion and achievement of the harmonious development of the union as a whole and the economic, social and territorial cohesion of its regions in particular, and to contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. they can also contribute positively to reducing barriers to territorial cooperation and can be useful in strengthening cooperation between third countries, overseas countries and territories and union border regions, including through the use of eu external cooperation programmes. the amendments introduced by this regulation aim, on the one hand, to comply with the terminology introduced by the treaty on the functioning of the european union and, on the other hand, concern the composition, content of the convention and the statute of an egtc, its purpose, the authorisation process by national authorities, the applicable employment and procurement legislation, the approach to egtcs whose members do not have the same responsibility for their actions and more transparent communication procedures.
in writing. − i voted for the report 'gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies' because it addresses for the first time openly the issue of the quotas for women on boards and offers concrete solutions to improve the appointment procedures for non-executive directors in listed companies so that by 2020 at least 40% of these positions are held by women. public companies must already achieve this target by 2018. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is the first time that a european document has referred to the use of quotas to ensure gender balance, which we hope will pave the way for the application of this principle in all areas of activity.
in writing. − i welcome and support the rapporteurs' proposal for a clear target of 40% of the under-represented sex in non-executive directorships in all listed companies by 2020 and in listed state-owned companies by 2018 to promote gender balance in the boards of all listed companies. this will provide women with greater opportunities to assume leadership positions and contribute with their skills to the economic performance of societies. it is also useful to introduce a series of sanctions for failure to comply with these provisions.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this proposal to improve equality between men and women in the most highly skilled jobs. the objective of having 40% of women on the boards of publicly listed european companies by 2020 is ambitious and necessary. today, only 17.6% of non-executive directors are women, and only 2.4% of managing directors. this is not only discriminatory, it is also a hindrance to growth. this text is a step forward in ensuring equal opportunities for men and women in the highest positions in companies. there are still too many competent, skilled and talented women excluded from the boards of large companies. however, we know that a better gender balance in boards is particularly positive for economic success and business management. the text should make recruitment procedures more transparent, so that they are based solely on merit. they will be accompanied by sanctions for companies that are not compliant. i welcome the outcome of the vote, in which the socialists and democrats played an important role.
in writing. − gender equality and non-discrimination are part of the eu's core values. there is certainly still room for improvement in achieving full equality, whether we are talking about equal pay for equal jobs or the representation of women in decision-making structures in both politics and private enterprise. the objective of gender equality must therefore remain a priority on the european and national agenda. the commission's present proposal and the amendments adopted in the parliamentary committees do not, in my view, constitute a reasonable solution. i believed, and i still believe, that board seats in companies should be filled on the basis of competence and merit, and that the decision belongs to the shareholders who invest in those companies. legislative quota setting, even if it is based on a legitimate intention, will have perverse effects, preventing the companies concerned from appointing the people they want to their boards of directors, forcing them to take into account the sex of the candidates, which is absolutely irrelevant from a qualitative point of view and even discriminatory towards candidates of the opposite sex. last but not least, i cannot support a text that introduces disproportionate sanctions such as exclusion from public procurement procedures or even the dissolution of the company.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the strengthening of the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies and related measures. in january 2012, women occupied on average only 13,7% of the available positions on the boards of the largest listed companies in the member states. the number of highly qualified women willing to serve on a board of directors is increasing, but many obstacles remain. i believe that if half of the talent pool is not considered for management positions, the process and quality of appointments itself is compromised, which leads to an increase in distrust of the power structures of the business environment and leads to a decrease in the effective utilisation of available human capital. i support the objective of the directive to substantially increase the number of women on boards of companies across the eu by setting a minimum target of 40% of the under-represented sex among non-executive directors of listed companies and achieving that proportion by 1 january 2020 or by 1 january 2018 in the case of companies that are publicly traded.
after long debates, many welcome the agreement on the reform of the common agricultural policy, and the fact that after the transition period, the story of one of the european union's most successful policies can continue under the new rules. at the same time, it should be emphasised that, for the first time in the cap reforms, the european parliament succeeded in achieving substantial amendments in negotiations with the council, and as a result, in significantly improving the initial proposal. it is of the utmost importance that the balancing of direct payments between member states has also been agreed. the level of payments will thus clearly converge, resulting in a fairer distribution. support for young farmers will also increase, which is essential for the pursuit of sustainable and profitable agricultural activities, especially in member states with a very high share of the population living off agriculture.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy is not only one of the european union's most important economic objectives, but also one of the instruments with a key role in reducing intra-regional disparities and preserving a historically relevant way of life for european societies. it is therefore necessary that the amendments made take account not only of the economic effects but also of the impact and social importance of this area. i believe that improving the control and sanction system, reducing bureaucracy and making the evaluation and monitoring system more efficient are important steps towards improving the common agricultural policy. i also believe that these changes can increase the competitiveness of member states' economies by providing a growing number of jobs in a sector that is essential to the economic success of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be a particularly important part of the process of reforming the common agricultural policy. in the present context, but also as a precautionary measure, i would like to insist on budgetary discipline which requires compliance with the annual ceiling for expenditure. they also consider that the new payment and monitoring systems, as well as the related sanctioning systems, are welcome. the only condition is that they do not generate more bureaucracy or complicated additional procedures for local administrations. finally, i would like to express my support for the agricultural advisory system for beneficiaries. i believe that this is both important and necessary in terms of management, farming practices, environmental standards and public health measures.
in writing. − i believe that a reserve for crisis situations should be established to support the agricultural sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) for the period 2014-2020. this fairer reform introduces new and more transparent criteria for the distribution of subsidies to member states and european farmers. the total amount of the cap for the next six years was set at 408 billion, or almost 38% of the union budget. the introduction of codecision has enabled the european parliament to impose a number of its demands, notably on the necessary transparency of the process of allocating funds, which is a notable development. the reform introduces the principle of publication of beneficiaries, who will have to be able to prove continuous activity: non-productive sites, such as airports or golf courses, will be excluded from the reform. the new payment system will give priority to small farms over large companies. finally, it is important that a limit has been set for at least 30% of the union rural development budget and 30% of farm subsidies to be dedicated to organic farming, agri-environmental measures and other climate adaptation measures.
in writing. − the reform of the common agricultural policy has been a long process and, for the first time since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has played a leading role in the formulation of one of the most important european policies. the report i have dealt with is an attempt to improve the commission's proposal by ensuring that our farmers have more simplification and less red tape, both in the system of direct payments and in the system of controls and penalties. finally, with the definition of the 2014-2020 mff, we were able to define the framework that allowed us to establish the financial allocation of the new cap.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy has the potential to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring sustainable agriculture and by increasing coherence between the common agricultural policy and environmental and public health policies. the monitoring and evaluation system is of particular importance as it will help to assess progress made and to make policies more effective in achieving the proposed objectives by providing timely access to relevant information received from member states. i believe that we need a system that is able to monitor and evaluate the performance of the cap as well as the main instruments of the programme (direct payments, market indices, rural development indices, etc.) and that also involves all stakeholders from the outset.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i strongly believe we need a modern legislation in order to increase the competitiveness of eu agriculture. the new rules will make farming more competitive, they will enhance support for young farmers and for those who are genuinely engaged in agricultural production. with these new rules we have paved the way for a green, modern agriculture that will ensure the best results for the consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy (cap). it lays down rules on: the financing of cap expenditure, including rural development expenditure; the agricultural advisory system; the management and control systems to be set up by the member states; the cross-compliance system; the verification and closure of accounts. i would stress the importance of introducing the article on the reserve for crises in the agricultural sector. a crisis reserve is thus established to provide additional support to the sector in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or distribution by applying, at the beginning of each year, a reduction to direct payments through the financial discipline mechanism. the total amount of the reserve is eur 2800 million, with annual tranches of eur 400 million (at 2011 prices) for the period 2014-2020. i would point out that the amounts not made available for crisis measures by the end of the financial year are paid to final beneficiaries who, during the financial year for which the appropriations are carried over, are subject to the adjustment of direct payments. the reimbursement shall only apply to final beneficiaries in member states which were subject to financial discipline during the previous financial year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. i think we are dealing with a very useful and necessary report on how to inform and protect investors. although the range of investment products is becoming wider, they are becoming more complex and more difficult to understand. investments are often made in ignorance, with risks and costs that investors do not understand and that can lead to unforeseen and unbearable losses. i consider that this report brings improvements in terms of transparency and information provided to retail investors. last but not least, such measures aimed at regaining investor confidence in financial markets are necessary in the current economic context.
in writing. − i voted for the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation on key information documents relating to investment products. i consider that improving the transparency provisions for investment products offered to retail investors is an important measure to protect investors and a necessary condition for restoring their confidence in the financial market, especially in the context of the consequences of the financial crisis. different rules for the different sectors offering investment products and national regulations in this area create unequal conditions of competition between different products and distribution channels, thus raising new obstacles to a single market for financial services and products. this regulation complements the measures on distribution (including investment advice, investor protection measures or other sales services) provided for in directive 2004/39/ec and the measures on the distribution of insurance products provided for in directive 2002/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council. the regulation lays down uniform rules: - on the format and content of the key information document; - the annex to the key information document; - on insurance intermediation, and uniform rules on the provision of such documents to retail investors.
in writing. − one of the most important challenges facing the european union today is to successfully manage the challenges and problems aggravated by the prolonged effects of the economic recession. in particular, at the social level, they tend to exacerbate development disparities and differences and to amplify social exclusion. in these circumstances, i welcome the fact that the funds allocated to rural development will solve some of these problems and make a decisive contribution to the achievement of the european union's cohesion and social inclusion objectives. the fact that the situation of women in rural areas can be addressed in the new financial year through these funds is an important step forward, as is the focus on supporting active farmers or young farmers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) is a guarantee of sustainable rural development at eu level. and that is why i believe that the efforts of all member states must be directed towards developing a more territorially and ecologically balanced, more competitive and more innovative agricultural sector. i would like to congratulate my colleagues from the epp on the results achieved in the trilogue, in particular on the priority of supporting smes linked to the agricultural and forestry sectors. i also welcome the addition of the rural women category to the list of thematic sub-programmes. they, along with young farmers and small farms, need strengthened support at union level.
in writing. − i believe that an electronic information system should be established to ensure an efficient and secure exchange of data of common interest and to record, store and manage key information and report on monitoring and evaluation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on support for rural development from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). it lays down: - general rules governing union support for rural development from the eafrd; - defines the objectives to be contributed to by rural development policy and the relevant union priorities for rural development; - highlights the strategic context for rural development policy; - defines measures under rural development policy; - lays down rules on programming, interconnection, management, monitoring and evaluation, based on the sharing of responsibility between member states and the commission, and lays down rules to ensure coordination of the eafrd with other union instruments. the creation and development of new economic activities, diversification into non-agricultural activities, including the provision of services for agriculture and forestry, activities related to healthcare, social integration and tourism are vital for the development of rural areas. the eafrd intervenes in the member states through rural development programmes. in order to contribute to the achievement of the union priorities for rural development, member states may include in their rural development programmes thematic sub-programmes addressing specific needs. such thematic sub-programmes may relate to, inter alia, young farmers; small farms; mountain areas; short supply chains; women in rural areas; climate change mitigation and adaptation and biodiversity.
in writing. − the common organisation of the market in agricultural products must strike a fair and legitimate balance between consumer concerns on the one hand and the imperatives of public health and environmental impact on the other. the development of the agricultural system must respect the objectives of food security and environmental protection assumed by the european union and the member states. at the same time, i believe that the possibility of derogating from european rules on competitiveness should be considered an exceptional situation, which will become operational only after the adoption of rigorous procedures at the level of the representative institutions of the european union. last but not least, these exceptional procedures must, in situations of extreme imbalances, support the global competitiveness of european economic actors in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of cap reforms, the common organisation of agricultural markets regulation is essential to adapt to changing market conditions, to changing consumer demand and to developments in international standards in this field. as regards the new elements brought forward, i believe that the differentiated system of supporting markets by sector as well as the direct support schemes will respond to the specific needs of the agricultural community and will stabilise the markets. the content of this report is particularly important, in particular because it will respond to consumer expectations and improve the economic conditions for production and marketing, as well as the quality of certain agricultural products.
in writing. − i believe that the marketing standards should, in principle, apply to all the agricultural products concerned marketed in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products. this regulation establishes a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, which means all products listed in annex i to the treaties, with the exception of fishery and aquaculture products. in order to stabilise markets and guarantee a decent standard of living for the farming community, a differentiated system of market support by sector has been developed and direct support schemes have been introduced, taking into account the different needs of these sectors on the one hand and the interdependencies between sectors on the other. those measures shall take the form of public intervention or a private storage payment. it is still necessary to maintain market support measures, which should also be streamlined and simplified. i would like to draw attention to the provisions underlining the importance of encouraging the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk and milk products by pupils, with a view to increasing the proportion of these products in the diets of children in the formative stage of their eating habits in a sustainable way. union aid for the financing or co-financing of the supply of such products to children in educational establishments should therefore be promoted.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the new direction of the common agricultural policy takes account of the expectations of the new member states. i am glad that romania will have an increase in agricultural funds of 27% compared to the previous period. i would like to stress the impact of direct aid on increasing the profitability and competitiveness of small farms, and their exemption from environmental rules is welcome for my country. encouraging young people to become involved in agriculture must also remain a key objective. the 25% increase in direct payments for young farmers in the first five years after installation will help to reorient them towards the agricultural sector and thus could reduce unemployment among this category. finally, i note that there are still wide disparities between member states in the level of subsidies granted.
in writing. − the development of the common agricultural policy is not possible without greater flexibility and transparency in the process of allocating funds. in the face of increasing global trade competition and the prolonged effects of the economic recession, it is imperative for european countries and economies to turn agriculture into a growth tool. i also consider appropriate measures that favour the role of active farmers. in the current financial conditions, prioritising allocations to maximise benefits is essential both for the union as a whole and for the member states. supporting young farmers is also beneficial in creating a dynamic and competitive agricultural sector. last but not least, i believe that the adoption of measures leading to environmental protection is a legitimate move by the european authorities.
in writing. − i consider that in order to ensure the correct application of the adjustments to direct payments in relation to financial discipline, the power to adopt certain acts should be delegated to the commission in respect of the rules on the basis for calculating the reductions to be applied by the member states to farmers as a result of the application of financial discipline.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down rules on direct payments to farmers under support schemes under the common agricultural policy. member states granting direct payments below 90% of the eu average will close one third of the gap between their current level and this level, with all member states reaching a minimum level before financial year 2020. i regret that the level of direct payments to farmers under the cap will not be equalised for the period 2014-2020. before 31 december 2013, member states may decide to make available, in the form of additional support for measures under rural development programmes financed by the eafrd, up to 15% of their annual national ceilings for the calendar years 2014 to 2019. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. in 2015, bulgaria and romania may use the national direct payments to complement payments granted under the basic payment scheme. the total amount of complementary national direct payments to the basic payment scheme that may be granted for 2015 shall not exceed the amount set out in point b of annex v for that year, namely eur 1 783 426 000.
in writing. − i support the legislative proposals aimed at ensuring an efficient institutional transition to the new multiannual financial year. the common agricultural policy and rural development are priority objectives of the european union, with value linked not only to the union's historical traditions but also to the societies of the member states. as rural development is one of the eu's main tools for promoting social cohesion and inclusion, careful treatment of the financing of this sector is imperative. increasing the flexibility of european programmes launched at this level is essential to achieve the objectives set by the union and the member states. i believe that reducing red tape and increasing flexibility across the program is imperative in the current social and economic circumstances. i also support the proposal for member states to transfer funds between the two priority sectors of the cap in order to make efficient use of european funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it ensures both the continuity of programme funding and legal certainty during the transition to the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. during the transition from the current to the next programming period, unnecessary complexity in the financial management of rural development programmes should be avoided in order to limit the negative effects arising therefrom. it is also important to include the provision allowing member states that currently transfer unspent funds from the first pillar to the second pillar to continue this practice in 2014. last but not least, i also support the application of the new transparency rules from the financial year 2015 so that both the authorities and the farmers can meet the objective of a better understanding of the agricultural policy.
in writing. − i believe that transitional provisions are necessary to establish the technical arrangements that will allow for a smooth adaptation to the new conditions, while ensuring the continuity of the different funding possibilities under the cap. for direct payments, member states, paying agents and farmers need to have sufficient time, to prepare well and to be informed in good time of the details of the reform.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft regulation laying down certain transitional provisions on support for rural development from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and amending the regulation on resources and their allocation for 2014. in view of the difficulties still faced by certain member states with regard to their financial stability and in order to limit the negative effects that have occurred during the transition from the current to the next programming period, the duration of the derogation allowing the maximum rate of the eafrd contribution to be increased should be extended until the final date of eligibility of expenditure for the 2007-2013 programming period, namely 31 december 2015. for bulgaria and romania, the agricultural area included in the single area payment scheme shall be the part of the utilised agricultural area of those states that is maintained in good agricultural condition, whether in use or not, adjusted in accordance with objective and non-discriminatory criteria to be established by bulgaria and romania respectively, after approval by the commission. romania and bulgaria may grant transitional national aid in 2014 only if they decide, within one month of the date of application of this regulation, not to grant any complementary national direct payment in 2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it deals with issues of particular importance to romania. pressure on national financial resources is increasing and further measures are needed to alleviate this pressure. one of the most important steps required in this regard is the optimal and maximum use of funding from the structural funds and the cohesion fund. the extension of the automatic decommitment period for the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 by one year will contribute to improving the absorption of committed funds for the 2007-2013 operational programmes. on another note, i would like to express my conviction that cohesion policy plays an important role in counteracting the effects of budgetary discipline at the level of all member states.
in writing. − i welcome the decision to temporarily increase the co-financing ceilings for projects financially supported by the european union, which will reduce the pressure on national budgets and facilitate the concentration of funds on the implementation of projects on the ground. the prolonged crisis is causing many member states to face general government deficits of over 3% of gdp, leading to the launch of the 'excessive deficit procedure' (edp), and the often severe deterioration of their economic and budgetary situation is leading to considerable difficulties in co-financing projects.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of a european parliament resolution amending regulation 1083/2006 to help eu states seriously affected by the economic crisis, but also to avoid the significant risk of automatic disengagement of structural and cohesion funds in slovakia and romania. the latter would have risked losing more than eur 4 billion through the automatic decommissioning mechanism. losing that amount of money would have translated into years of development lost. we are not talking about allocating additional resources here, but about giving a respite so that european funds can be spent. i also welcome the possibility of increasing the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points. when a state enters a financial assistance programme to finance its budget deficit, it is clear that it does not have the resources to co-finance european projects. the european parliament and the council cannot turn their backs on members who are in financial difficulties or who have absorption problems. otherwise, the whole idea of cohesion policy is pointless.
in writing. − i voted to amend regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 on certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability, the rules on disengagement for certain member states and the rules on the payment of the final balance. the global financial crisis has seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability and deteriorated financial, economic and social conditions in several member states. in order to facilitate the management of union funding, to accelerate investment in member states and regions, and to improve the availability of funds to finance the economy, regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 was amended to allow for an increase in interim payments from the funds by an amount equivalent to 10 percentage points above the actual co-financing rate for each priority axis in the case of member states experiencing severe financial difficulties and having requested this measure. the union contribution, by paying the final balance for each priority axis, shall not exceed by more than 10% the maximum amount of assistance from the funds granted for each priority axis. the co-financing rate increased by 10 percentage points shall apply to the 2014-2020 programming period until 30 june 2016, when the possibility of such an increase is to be reviewed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, but also in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for france, italy and spain. i believe that the additional financial envelope of eur 150 million allocated to the three member states for 2013 will support their efforts to address the current economic and social challenges. we must not lose sight of the fact that france, italy and spain are facing unemployment rates above the eu average, but also a growing number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. they also believe that this additional allocation through the esf will ensure a higher absorption rate of funds and provide solutions to urgent investment needs in the social field.
in writing. − in view of the particular efforts needed to address unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, especially in the context of the current economic crisis, it is appropriate to allocate an appropriation of eur 150 million to the esf commitments for 2013 foreseen for france, italy and spain through the flexibility instrument and the margin available in the 2013 budget. the decision also takes into account the absorption capacity of the member states concerned for the two objectives of the funds: the convergence objective and the regional competitiveness and employment objective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 1083/2006 as regards the financial allocation from the european social fund for certain member states. in view of the current economic crisis, in order to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union and as a contribution to the special effort needed to address the specific problems of unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, and poverty and social exclusion, it is proposed to increase the allocations from the european social fund to france, italy and spain for 2013. in the context of the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, the european commission proposes to grant france, italy and spain amounts of eur 100 million, eur 30 million and eur 20 million respectively as additional commitments to their esf allocations for 2013. however, given that the amounts indicated in the regulation are expressed in 2004 prices, the corresponding amounts referred to in the regulation amount to a total of eur 126 million, as follows: eur 84 million for france, eur 17 million for spain and eur 25 million for italy. the amounts shall be made available through the flexibility instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union needs to step up its cooperation efforts to strengthen the capacity of developing countries to conserve and manage their fish stocks efficiently and sustainably. moreover, the central and western pacific ocean accounts for almost 60% of the world's tuna catches and the sustainable management of fisheries in this region is therefore of global importance. for these reasons, the agreement with kiribati is important for the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the possibilities and the financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the republic of kiribati, of the other part. the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) concluded with kiribati provides for access for spanish, french and portuguese vessels to the waters of the republic of kiribati between 16 september 2012 and 15 september 2015. we invite the commission to forward to parliament the minutes and conclusions of the meetings of the joint committee provided for in article 10 of the agreement, as well as the multiannual sectoral programme referred to in article 3 of the protocol and the corresponding annual evaluations. we also invite the commission to facilitate the participation of representatives of parliament as observers in the meetings of the joint committee. we consider it important that, during the last year of application of the protocol and before the launch of negotiations for its renewal, the commission submits to parliament and the council an evaluation report on the implementation of the protocol. we call on the council and the commission, within their respective powers, to inform parliament fully and without delay at all stages of the procedures relating to the new protocol and its renewal, in accordance with article 13 (2) of the treaty on european union and article 218 (10) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. − during my mandate i have always supported the principle of a single seat for the european parliament. the place of the parliament is in brussels together with the council, the commission and the other european stakeholders such as the civil society. having three different seats for an institution is inefficient and money-consuming. in a time of severe financial constraints, european citizens cannot understand these unnecessary expenses. on many occasions we have requested structural changes so as to enable savings and more efficiency in our work. in october 2012, we managed to hold two plenary sessions in one week. i regret that we did not manage to do the same in 2013. the european parliament and its members should have the responsibility for their own working arrangements and rules of procedure. at present, this is not the case and this is unacceptable. it is time to put an end to this awkward situation, awkward for me but above all awkward for the european taxpayers.
in writing. − i voted against the motion for a resolution on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union. i believe that the report should have covered the premises of all the european institutions and, where appropriate, set common quality standards. the report, however, only sought to move the european parliament's seat from strasbourg, which is contrary both to the eu treaties and to recent decisions of the european court of justice. i voted for the paragraph which refers to articles 10 and 14 teu and states that the eu is a representative democracy, with european citizens directly represented at union level by the european parliament, which exercises its role as co-legislator on an equal footing with the council. i voted against paragraphs 4 and 5. paragraph 4 advocates the initiation of an ordinary treaty revision procedure with the aim of proposing an amendment to article 341 tfeu and protocol no 6 to enable parliament to decide on its seat and internal organisation. paragraph 5 states that no recommendation shall be made with regard to the seats of the other institutions of the european union.
in writing. in a diverse europe open to all its citizens, it is essential that all information and communication actions relating to horizon 2020, including communication on funded projects and their results, be accessible in formats suitable for all people, accessibility including large print, braille, easy-to-read text, audio, video and electronic formats. on the other hand, an increase in the participation of smes in horizon 2020 will be beneficial for europe, given their share in the european economy. smes can be the active principle for green and sustainable economic growth. on the other hand, increasing the efficiency of renewable energy sources can make this field more economically attractive, while also combating climate change, reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and promoting a low-carbon economy. i consider horizon 2020 to be a key programme that could contribute to further reducing emissions of gases and particulates harmful to the environment and health, without being a burden for industries or member states.
in writing. a recently published commission and ecb survey shows that one third of european smes did not obtain the necessary funding in 2013. these figures highlight once again the acute problem of access to finance faced by smes. as 99% of european enterprises are smes, it is imperative that we take measures to support access to finance in order to give smes the breathing space they need to overcome the economic crisis and to ensure their future competitiveness and thus the competitiveness and growth of the european economy as a whole. a first step in this direction is the adoption of the cosme programme, a dedicated programme for smes that will support their competitiveness and growth with a budget of €2.3 billion. the fact that at least 60% of the total budget is allocated to the equity facility for growth and the loan guarantee facility is extremely positive, as many smes are denied loans precisely because of the lack of sufficient collateral. last but not least, i consider it essential to promote entrepreneurship and support smes through the european enterprise network, so that smes are better informed about the different funding opportunities.
in writing. one of the difficulties currently faced by businesses in the union is low entrepreneurial initiative. according to a recent survey, only 38% of union citizens would like to be self-employed. the obstacles they fear include cumbersome administrative procedures and lack of start-up capital. the competitiveness of enterprises and smes programme finances, among other things, actions to simplify administrative procedures, thus encouraging individual initiatives. at the same time, funds are allocated for the development of entrepreneurial skills, including for various specific categories: young people, women, migrants. i regret, however, that only 2.5% of the programme has been set for entrepreneurship. i always insist on encouraging entrepreneurial culture and education, as smes represent 99% of enterprises in the union and are therefore the key factor for economic growth. i strongly believe that work is the best social protection and smes provide two thirds of private sector jobs in the union.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, we are debating two important reports tonight, but i believe that mr gahler's report is the solution for a common security and defence policy. it is a substantial report, showing us where our limits are and how those limits correspond to the ambitions of a common strategy and policy conceptualisation. the security situation, particularly in the mediterranean area, the situation of reduced budgets in almost all member states, the situation of the 28 different defence markets, far from having a single market, clearly tell us that we have a reduced capacity to react to the risks and vulnerabilities of an increasingly precarious security situation. the solution is to use the slogans, that famous 'pooling and sharing', in an effective way: member states to collaborate; member states to try to make their defence compatible; to try to make european joint undertakings, as a solution both to strengthen defence capacity and to strengthen employment; to standardise, certify and use the institutions we already have. we fully agree with mr gahler's proposal that the european defence agency should be the pivotal coordinator of these policies of compatibility, which must also generate greater competitiveness for the defence industry, because beyond what we are proposing, we have seen the limits. we've seen what's happened in libya, we've seen our inability to react and to support a common ambition. we cannot each, individually, respond to global challenges. instead, we can together, by putting our capabilities together, react effectively and make the european union not just an ambitious player in security policy, but an effective player, which would bring much more visibility and respect to defence policy. that is why i believe that in achieving our common ambitions defence capabilities and industry constitute the answer to a true cohesion of our common policy.
blue-card question. – does the honourable member know how many constitutions would have to be changed in order to achieve the objective which he says we are pursuing?
mr president, both reports by ms koppa and mr gahler, whom i warmly congratulate, raise the stakes for the upcoming december council. their message is that we need a consistent yet achievable level of ambition; a strategic vision, including a white paper on defence; possibly a military headline goal for 2025; a less fragmented european defence industry; better r&d; and, first and foremost, the political will and courage to allocate sufficient resources to security and defence in times of grim austerity. the proposed remedies should nevertheless be considered realistically. if the budget cuts are too deep, there will be no significant capabilities left to pool and share. also, it is indeed advisable to strengthen the european internal market in defence equipment, yet buying exclusively european is not always within the reach of certain member states. the european defence technological and industrial base should be built on enhanced competitiveness and on the global market, and protectionist measures should be avoided.
thank you, madam president. the key question, i think, is this: can we (yes or no) turn europe into a strategically relevant global player, an actor with real strategic autonomy? for this, i believe, we need a new vision, based also on a change of mentality, which will allow the use of the instruments introduced by the treaty of lisbon. among these instruments, i would first mention the need for permanent structured cooperation between member states. in fact, member states must have the instruments and capabilities of the common security and defence policy, but also, as mentioned here, sufficient resources to use them. we must not, i believe, let the economic crisis stop us from funding our defence and security missions and operations, because these are long-term investments that will surely prove useful. on the other hand, it must be said that the lack of funding can lead to the irreversible loss of some practices and technologies. the introduction of a solidarity clause is an essential element, but it needs to be communicated to european citizens in order to really create a sense of common destiny. the visibility of crisis management is also extremely important for our public opinion.
mr. chairman, i agree with the report. they also agree with the european union's position to take a leading role in taking measures to prevent, combat and improve the environment. but i want the european union to be just one step ahead of the other countries outside the european union, and not more steps, to give industry, agriculture, other economic sectors the time to adapt to a low-carbon economy.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to focus only on the questions which are connected with life itself – the instrument and budget. dare i say that rarely does one hear such agreement in a debate here in parliament. many members mentioned the budget. frankly, when i started to table the proposal, the core question was should we continue, or is the programme good enough? are there good reasons? of course, i was firmly fighting for that course and, i have to be honest, without your support, we would not have the budget which we have currently. i would really like to thank you. at the end of the day, you all know that when we fund nature, funding it with the limited amount of money which we have is not something that can deliver us success. so mainstreaming the integration of the policies which were mentioned by many of you is a very important part of how we can truly work together, not only with other funding instruments, but also with others who are working for the same course. you mentioned at the beginning, madam haug, externalisation and the worries which you have in the management. i have started with externalisation already, in r&d. it has to be done very carefully. that is clear, and we will do it step by step. clearly there is an understanding that dg environment and dg climate action will continue to provide political guidance. the externalisation idea was always that a job which could be done by professionals should be done by professionals, but at the same time, we should do it extremely carefully and we should ensure that the programme substance will definitely be defined only by those who have the ability to define the programme’s substance. i fully share your concerns, but rest assured that we are dealing with those issues very carefully. the many things which were mentioned with regard to the traditional project – continuation, integration, capacity-building and phasing-out of national allocations – are all important. when it comes to the co-funding level, it should really be chosen well. if it is too high, we have to understand that each applicant for the money needs to have the feeling that it is also worth investing his own money into the project. secondly, it is also important that if we have a co-funding level – of course it has to be attractive as otherwise it makes no sense – that is too high, then we will simply be making fewer projects. we have to take all that into account. regarding the specific questions on nature which you asked me, mr gerbrandy, when it comes to my area and my legislation, i can absolutely reassure you that nature is one of the parts of the legislation which i am taking care of and which i would dare to say is also one of the pieces of legislation of which we in europe could be most proud. on the analysis of the spending on nature conservation, i fully agree that this will need to be done, because we need to have an overview, not only of how much we are spending through life, but also of how much we are spending through the rural, cohesion and r&d funds – and not only there, but also how much we are collectively spending on those areas. these are not only the questions which we will have to – and need to – understand for our own sakes, but we have also made commitments to do our job internationally, and we need to understand how much we do spend for ourselves and also how much we contribute to international efforts. mrs auken, the traditional projects will remain the core, so i am not worried that you would lose the money. i do not think that this will happen. there are some things, some proposals for going partly through the integrated project route and partly through the possibility of also using eib funds. where we tried that, we would simply activate more external funding. i am absolutely sure that when we look at the pilot phase and how to contribute to the eib funding, i am confident. but when we come to the longer term, i am absolutely sure that we have to look and fight for co-financing from rural, r&d and cohesion funds, because it makes sense. regional funding, through mainstreaming, is done there. it is not predominantly or solely done through the life programme which we are proposing here. also, on the octs, i can guarantee you that we will honour our commitment. as you probably know, external instruments are still under negotiation, but my services are in close contact with other commission services to make sure that our commitments are properly reflected in the various programming documents. so with that i am ending. i would at the end like to thank you again, miss haug. i think you have done excellent work and i do appreciate it very much.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues in the european parliament, the shadow rapporteurs and the other members who have contributed to the finalisation of this report. i would also like to underline the very good cooperation with the representatives of the council and the european commission in the negotiations to reach a consensus on the content of this report, which we will adopt today. last but not least, i would like to thank the econ advisors who have provided me with qualified support throughout this report. the fiscalis programme is the most important european instrument for strengthening cooperation between tax authorities between member states and for defending and protecting the financial interests of taxpayers, governments, member states and the union. this programme for 2014-2020 provides for an amount of eur 223,4 million. the fiscalis programme focuses on two main objectives: firstly, the operation and improvement of the functioning of the european tax information system, including the exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states, and secondly, the promotion of best practices in the field of tax administration through exchanges of experience, staff training, strengthening of administrative capacity, bilateral and multilateral tax controls, by reducing the burden of tax administration. through the constructive work of the european parliament, the council and the european commission, we have succeeded in making the new fiscalis 2014-2020 programme reflect the major concern of european citizens and governments, namely the focus of this programme on the fight against tax evasion, tax fraud, aggressive tax planning. it is the legitimate wish of european citizens as firms and individuals not to use the benefits of the single market to avoid paying taxes and duties due in the member states where they are tax residents. the fight against tax evasion, tax fraud and aggressive tax planning will be the main content of cooperation with third countries under the fiscalis 2014-2020 programme. i take this opportunity to welcome the efforts made by the european commission to conclude transparency and information exchange agreements with third countries, so that we can tax in the member states the income obtained in these third countries by citizens resident in the member states of the european union. in order for the fiscalis programme to achieve its objectives, there will be quantitative and qualitative indicators for monitoring the programme, evaluating implementation and impact. each year, the european commission, together with the member states, will draw up a work plan, which will form the basis for the annual implementation of the programme.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fiscalis 2020 tax action programme aims to improve the efficiency of national tax administrations, to cooperate at european level, to simplify procedures, and to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the programme was very favourably received by the national authorities, who requested that it continue in 2014. in this context, i welcome the proposal for an extension for the period 2014-2020. i believe that reducing administrative burdens and training of staff responsible for tax matters are important elements of the regulation, which will benefit both citizens and companies, while improving the functioning of the european internal market. according to the european commission, most member states face difficulties in the field of tax collection and the functioning of the tax administration. tax fraud and evasion cause considerable losses, estimated at €1 trillion a year in the european union. in romania, tax evasion accounts for about 15% of gross domestic product, the equivalent of €20 billion annually, according to the fiscal council. this money is a disservice to citizens, as it could be used for economic recovery and unemployment programmes. i also support the extension of the action programme for taxation to countries outside the european union, including candidate and potential candidate countries and neighbourhood policy partner countries. the programme will enable them to reform their tax administration and move forward on the path of european integration. finally, i would like to congratulate mr stolojan on his excellent report.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you for this debate. it appears that there is broad support for the programme. it is important that the european parliament has taken a very pro-active position in supporting our efforts in the area of taxation. many of you addressed the issue of tax fraud and evasion, and i particularly welcome the fact that this area is properly addressed in the fiscalis 2020 programme. we have to remember that in december last year the commission adopted an action plan with more than 30 actions to deal with tax fraud and evasion. this programme will provide good support for their implementation. i agree that we will not solve all the problems in this area with one small programme, but i believe its real function will be as a facilitator in addressing the problems. i would also like to comment on the remarks by mr bloom, who unfortunately is already absent. i have to correct him: the commission pays taxes and our contributions reduce the contributions of the member states to the union budget, so his statement was simply not correct. in a few hours’ time you will vote on this programme. i believe that the challenges identified for taxation in the next decade cannot be tackled if member states do not look beyond the borders of their administrative territories and cooperate intensively with their counterparts. the fiscalis 2020 programme offers the union a framework within which to develop this cooperation more cost effectively. within a single market, with a limited number of harmonised taxes and the coexistence now of 28 national tax systems, cooperation remains the key. i therefore look forward to a massive, positive vote in this house.
the reporter. - mr president, commissioner šemeta, i thank all my colleagues who took part in this debate. but the crisis that has caused great pain to many citizens has taught us one thing, and that is that we need deep reforms. this crisis has also been an opportunity, because citizens no longer want to accept tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and, in these circumstances, they ask us, the european institutions, to act decisively at european level. thank you and i hope that this report will be adopted today.
mr president, since 2009 the overall estimated rate of error in the commission’s expense payments has steadily increased from 3.3% in 2009 to almost 5% in 2012. when it comes to shared management expenditure, the estimated error rate goes up to 5.3%. this situation is the outcome of persistent weaknesses on the part of both the commission and the member states, and they need to address it at once. for instance, ex ante verification systems must be upgraded. secondly, 29% of the overall estimated error rate is the result of serious failures to respect public procurement rules, and this is very worrying. i want to know precisely how the commission deals with such cases of fraud (or fraudulent behaviour) and what it does in practice to address and correct this situation. the third point, of course, is that all this money is lost – lost to taxpayers – when it ought to have been spent on the most important problem we now have in europe, that of jobs for youth. the fourth thing i would like to say concerns conflict of interest. i call on the court to prepare a follow-up special report on conflict of interest, targeting more agencies. one was prepared last year and i would like to see the exercise repeated every year, in relation to the agencies and in relation to industries, but targeting more agencies. in addition, i insist that conflict of interest should be a criterion used by the european court of auditors in its evaluations of all the eu institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i believe that horizon 2020 is one of the most important investments for the future of the european union, and beyond, given that it is the largest programme of its kind in the world. a particularly important element is the simplification of the funding arrangements under the programme, as well as the instruments adapted to the specific needs of smes. these facilities will stimulate growth and job creation. even if the economic crisis has had a negative impact on innovation in some parts of europe, it remains essential for increasing and maintaining global competitiveness and for reviving economic growth in europe. i am proud that romania is the first country to have the official launch of horizon 2020.
in writing. − research and innovation are the main means of progressing towards a knowledge-based economy, which is provided for in the europe 2020 strategy and which will enable it to guarantee more balanced, diversified and sustainable growth. without guaranteeing the stability of research and innovation systems in terms of economic and human resources, the economic model supported by the europe 2020 strategy, based on high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion, risks failing. as such, i support the rapporteur's proposal that the funding of community research and innovation policy be increased, i.e. the horizon 2020 budget should be double the budget of the seventh framework programme.
in writing. − even if research and innovation policy deserved a larger budget than the one allocated to horizon 2020, i supported the agreement reached because i am convinced of the vital importance of this programme for the future of the eu. until the crisis, eu growth was very modest. one reason is the eu's lack of competitiveness on the world market due to the eu's innovation deficit compared to its partners such as the us or japan. to reverse this trend and enable european companies to become leaders in the markets in which they operate, we need an ambitious research and innovation policy that encourages research and, above all, the commercialisation of innovative products. horizon 2020 is a very promising programme, funding research in areas that are 21st century challenges, such as health, the green economy, energy efficiency or smart transport. its structure favours coherence and the rules for participation have been significantly simplified so that the participation of enterprises and in particular smes is encouraged, so that there is close cooperation between researchers, universities and enterprises. the creation of a dedicated tool for innovative smes is also a very positive thing.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the framework programme for research and innovation horizon 2020 because the eu's competitiveness depends on investment in research and innovation and on the eu's industrial policy. the three priorities of horizon 2020 are scientific excellence, industrial leadership and addressing societal challenges. the financial envelope for the implementation of horizon 2020 is set at eur 77 028,3 million in current prices, of which a maximum of eur 74 316,9 million shall be allocated to activities under title xix tfeu as follows: - eur 24 441,1 million for 'scientific excellence'; - eur 17 015,5 million for 'leadership in the industrial sector'; - eur 29 679 million for the 'social challenges'. i consider it particularly important for the eu to support investment in research and innovation of excellence in key enabling technologies and other industrial technologies and to facilitate access to finance for innovative businesses and projects. under the priority 'leadership in enabling and industrial technologies', specific support will be provided for research, development and demonstration activities, as well as standardisation and certification, as appropriate, in the fields of information and communication technology (ict), nanotechnology, advanced materials, biotechnology, advanced manufacturing and processing and space.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and in favour of the whole legislative package of horizon 2020. investment in innovation is particularly important in maintaining global competitiveness and economic growth in the european union. we need strong measures to encourage entrepreneurship, both because smes remain a key driver of innovation, but above all because they create new jobs, which are so needed at eu level. i would like to stress the need for a permanent evaluation of the rules of participation and dissemination. only in this way will we be able to achieve the desired simplification of procedures and increase participation in horizon 2020. furthermore, i believe that an annual analysis of the access to funds of participants from all regions, as well as the balanced participation of women and men in the programme, is necessary.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal to establish a single clear set of common rules for the usual accounting practices of beneficiaries of programmes to be carried out under horizon 2020, with the aim of achieving a reduction in administrative burden and the risk of error for all participants. while flexibility is necessary for some funding bodies, most participants would benefit from a clear set of reliable rules. the reintroduction of a model grant agreement as a standard reference point for all grant agreements, the clarification of a number of definitions and provisions and the inclusion of a new 'specific provisions' title containing dedicated articles on awards, public procurement, financial instruments, the sme instrument, public-private partnerships and public-public partnerships are proposals aimed at strengthening the idea of a 'single set of rules'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down the rules for participation and dissemination in the framework programme for research and innovation horizon 2020. the approved rules provide a single and sufficiently flexible regulatory framework that will facilitate participation, create a more coherent toolkit covering both research and innovation, and increase scientific and economic impact, while avoiding duplication of effort and fragmentation. they also simplify the terms and procedures from the perspective of the participants in order to ensure the most efficient implementation, given the need for easy access for all participants. the rules apply to all components of horizon 2020, including initiatives under articles 185 and 187 tfeu, actions currently falling within the scope of the competitiveness and innovation programme, and the activities of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the flexibility required by the different nature of research and innovation actions shall be ensured by providing for appropriate derogations and the possibility to establish specific modalities of participation in the work programmes. the financing may take one or more of the forms provided for in regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012, in particular grants, prizes, procurement or financial instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a strategic agenda is essential for defining the medium and long-term priority areas of the european institute of innovation and technology. we need an eit that encourages excellence in innovation, but above all that provides new solutions to the major challenges we face: climate change, renewable energy or information technology. this agenda puts innovation based on societal challenges at the heart of the eit, thus encouraging open innovation models to provide answers in times of crisis, as attracting young people to new types of jobs, strengthening support to smes and, not least, providing sustainable development solutions are key.
in writing. − i believe that europe needs to improve its strategic cross-border cooperation - across countries, sectors and disciplines - to create sufficient critical mass in the knowledge triangle in order to contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. we must not forget that, while it excels in higher education, research and innovation, it is still far too often fragmented. as such, the eit will contribute to accelerating education, research and innovation to ensure a stronger integration of the components of the knowledge triangle, strengthen cooperation between education systems, research and business, and develop new school and doctoral programmes involving all relevant actors in the context of the globalisation and digitalisation of the economy. the eit will contribute to the achievement of a sustainable and competitive economic model and to the creation and maintenance of future jobs.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the proposal for a decision on the 'strategic innovation agenda' of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit): the eit's contribution to a more innovative europe. the eit was established to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by enhancing the innovation capacity of the union and its member states. to achieve this, the eit combines strategic orientation at eit level with a bottom-up approach through the knowledge and innovation communities (kics). kics are integrated partnerships that bring together long-term leading universities and research centres, small and large enterprises and other actors of excellence in innovation. in 2010, the kics were established: sustainable energy (kic innoenergy), adaptation to and mitigation of climate change (climatekic) and the information and communication society of the future (eit ict labs). in the next step, new kics will be developed and calls for proposals will be launched for five new kics as follows: one call for two new kics in 2014 on the themes 'healthy lifestyle and active ageing' and 'raw materials'; one call for two new kics in 2016 on the themes 'food4future' and 'value-added production' and one call for a new kic in 2018 on 'urban mobility'.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that the european institute of innovation and technology has a key role to play in the europe 2020 strategy. the eit will therefore have to promote, by its very nature, interdisciplinary approaches to innovation and entrepreneurship as well as new business models. it will also have to fulfil its objective of mobilising funds from public and private sources. in doing so, i believe that the institute needs greater visibility and should carry out information campaigns targeting european universities, national, regional and local authorities. finally, i would like to stress the need for sound and efficient financial management so that the eit is no longer in a position to record a negative budget result. an appropriate payment procedure could ensure sound financial management of the union funds allocated to this institute.
in writing. − employment and value-added creation, alongside the development of innovation capacity, to provide sustainable and effective solutions to societal challenges, such as those identified in horizon 2020, are the means the eu has and must use to emerge from the multiple types of crisis it is currently facing. the creation of the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) is the eu's first attempt to integrate these three sides of the knowledge triangle (higher education, research and innovation), which will allow for the promotion of a more efficient interaction between universities, research centres and businesses, with the aim of bridging the gaps between research, education and entrepreneurship.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 294/2008 establishing the european institute of innovation and technology. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established by regulation (ec) no 294/2008 with the objective of contributing to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states. from 2014 to 2020, the eit will contribute to the overall objective of the horizon 2020 framework programme for research and innovation (hereinafter horizon 2020) by integrating the knowledge triangle of higher education, research and innovation. this mainstreaming takes place mainly through knowledge and innovation communities (kics), which bring together long-term organisations around societal challenges. the eit will work directly with national and regional representatives and other stakeholders in the innovation chain, generating benefits for both sides. to make this dialogue and exchange more systematic, an eit stakeholder forum will be created, bringing together wider communities of stakeholders around issues of general interest. the eit will carry out information and communication activities targeting the relevant stakeholders.
in writing. − as the latest survey published by the commission and the european central bank has shown, access to finance remains the main challenge faced by smes. the commission notes that the average annual growth rate of the sme sector in 2013 was around 2% and that the average annual growth rate of the sme sector was around 3% in the same period. the allocation of €1.4 billion from the cosme budget to facilitate access to finance is a measure that i hope will considerably improve this situation. decisions to grant financial support to an sme should be taken through a transparent process and bureaucratic burdens should be reduced. measures taken at national level are also of particular importance.
in writing. − european smes have proven to be the main drivers of growth and of providing more and better jobs in the union. they are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy and will play an important role in achieving its objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this is particularly important in the current economic context. smes can pave the way out of the current economic and job crisis. in fact, 85% of all new jobs created in the eu between 2002 and 2010 were created by smes. to meet these ambitious tasks, european smes need to be supported by the eu, both politically and financially. the union currently has a major responsibility to address market and policy dysfunctions that have seriously undermined the competitiveness of smes and to exploit their growth potential. this can be achieved, inter alia, by reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens and facilitating access to finance and markets for all smes.
in writing. − i believe that the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises should pay more attention to craft enterprises and micro-enterprises, with a focus on young entrepreneurs, new and potential entrepreneurs and, in particular, women entrepreneurs. for an effective exchange of experience and use of knowledge by people at the end of their careers, the programme should also encourage older citizens to become and remain entrepreneurs, and promote business transfer, spin-offs and the right to a second chance for entrepreneurs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises - 2014-2020 (the 'cosme programme'). i support the general objectives of the cosme programme of: - strengthening the competitiveness and sustainability of enterprises in the union, in particular smes; - encouraging an entrepreneurial culture and promoting the creation and development of smes. the financial envelope for the implementation of the cosme programme shall be eur 2 298,243 million in current prices, of which not less than 60% shall be allocated to financial instruments. the following indicative amounts shall be allocated under the financial envelope of the cosme programme: 21,5% of the value of the financial envelope to improve market access, in particular within the union but also worldwide; 11% to improve the framework conditions for the competitiveness and sustainability of union enterprises, in particular smes, including in the tourism sector; and 2,5% to promote entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial culture. the financial instruments under the cosme programme shall be managed with the aim of facilitating access to finance for smes in their start-up, growth and transfer stages. the financial instruments include an equity facility and a loan guarantee facility. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the carvalho report because the implementation of horizon and its 3 priorities requires a set of specific and coordinated measures. innovation should now be at the heart of the policy agendas of all member states in the context of the efforts to achieve the europe 2020 strategy. we must also not forget that each member state and region must develop smart specialisation strategies, built on their strengths, in line with the new cohesion policy. such a strategy will be a precondition for funding research and innovation from the european structural and investment funds. last but not least, coordination of horizon 2020 with other european policies, especially in the field of education, is important. this will develop the high-level career options of talented young europeans.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council decision establishing the specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' (2014-2020). the specific programme shall be implemented through work programmes and shall comprise the following components: scientific excellence, leadership in the industrial sector, societal challenges, non-nuclear direct actions of the joint research centre, spreading excellence and widening participation and science with and for society. support the strengthening of research in future technologies, skills building, training and career development through marie skłodowska-curie actions, as well as the strengthening of european research infrastructures, including e-infrastructures. i believe it is important to strengthen europe's industrial leadership through: information and communication technologies; nanotechnologies; advanced materials; biotechnology; advanced manufacturing and processing systems; space. the 'societal challenges' component will contribute to: - improving health and well-being throughout life for all; - ensuring sufficient quantities of healthy and quality food; - moving towards a reliable, accessible, sustainable and competitive energy system; - a resource-efficient, climate-friendly european transport system; - an economy and society in which resources - and water - are used efficiently and are resilient to climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european statistical system, through its activities of preparing, producing and disseminating european statistics, is of particular importance. decision-makers, businesses and citizens often manage their decisions on the basis of concrete data. the quality of statistical data is essential in many aspects of our work and not only. the independence of the statistical authorities is therefore absolutely necessary and must be ensured against political pressure at national level and beyond. in this respect, i too believe that it is essential that the presidents of the national statistical institutes enjoy a wide degree of autonomy. they should also be responsible for the results obtained by the national statistical institutes both in terms of statistical results and budget execution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics. reliable statistics are increasingly needed to enable decision-makers, businesses and citizens to make appropriate decisions based on real data. the credibility of statistics has become equivalent to the credibility conferred by the general public, in particular by the financial markets. the reliability of statistical data in terms of the technical quality assessment criteria is a prerequisite for ensuring user confidence. but just as important is the credibility of the institutions producing the statistics. in this context, the professional independence of the statistical authorities should be given special attention and guaranteed by law. i consider it important to strengthen the governance of the european statistical system by ensuring the unconditional application of the principle of professional independence of the national statistical institutes, by clarifying their coordination role within the national statistical systems and by improving the use of administrative data for statistical purposes. the main objective of the amendment to the current regulation is to strengthen the governance of the european statistical system in order to ensure a high degree of its credibility and to adequately address the data needs resulting from the improved coordination of economic policies in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, despite recent efforts and initiatives, the union continues to face complex problems. an alarming level of unemployment, especially among young people and low-skilled workers, a fragmented labour market and an increase in pressure on social protection systems are just some of these. our main objectives at this time must be to increase employment and reduce poverty and social exclusion. the europe 2020 strategy gives us a set of programmes based on these needs, and each of us is responsible for their progress at national level. on another note, i believe that eures is an important tool for the development of a genuine european labour market, but only if its visibility and operability are considerably improved.
in writing. the 'programme for social change and innovation' proposed by the european commission brings together three existing programmes - progress, eures and the microfinance facility - in a new programme. the current progress funding instrument supports the development and coordination of eu policy in the fields of employment, social protection and social inclusion, working conditions, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities for women and men. the role of the eures network is to provide information, advice and placement services (coordination of job offers and applications) to mobile workers and employers, and in general to all citizens who want to benefit from the right of free movement. the progress microfinance facility was established in 2010 and facilitates access to microcredit for the creation and promotion of microenterprises. the instrument does not finance micro-enterprises directly, but allows selected microcredit lenders to provide a higher number of loans. i believe that the programme should be fully transparent so that the revenues and payments generated by a particular financial instrument are reallocated to that instrument.
in writing. − the 'programme for social change and innovation' proposed by the european commission from 2014 onwards will bring together three existing programmes - progress, eures and the microfinance facility - into a new programme, which will result in a weakening of their measures and objectives. the programme is allocated eur 958,10 million, but it is important to increase the total budget by 5% because, in a time of economic crisis and need for consolidation in the member states, social and employment programmes are becoming of central importance. the progress sub-programme should continue to ensure that the largest share of funding is allocated to the areas of social inclusion, social protection and poverty reduction. in view of the increasing problems faced by young people in the labour market and the increasing youth unemployment, it is essential that at least 10% be used to tackle youth unemployment. as regards the eures sub-programme, funding for specific mobility programmes, cross-border partnerships, and the training and qualification of eures staff should be ensured. the adequate funding of the microfinance and social entrepreneurship sub-programme should also be ensured.
in writing. − i believe that the social partners and civil society organisations at union and member state level should be offered financial support for projects related to gender equality and research in the field of employment and social inclusion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this programme, which aims to empower and support the social and employment policies of the member states. it will help to promote voluntary economic mobility in europe, provide one-to-one support for crossborder workers, promote initiative projects to combat poverty and social exclusion, and provide micro-credit to the most vulnerable so that they can set up their own businesses and support social innovation. i strongly support these initiatives. this programme provides a clear and coherent framework and has thus been linked to a number of broader issues affecting quality of employment, poverty reduction and social inclusion. in this time of crisis, we must put all the chances on our side in order to create a more just and united europe. i am confident in the capacity of the recent instruments adopted by the european union to contribute to these objectives, and in particular this programme for social change and innovation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of creating the programme for social change and innovation. by combining the programmes progress, eures, and micro-financing, the programme for social change offers a more direct instrument for the commission to use in its effort to fight poverty and safeguard social protections. close to 99% of the new businesses opened in the eu are small businesses with a third of the owners formerly unemployed. it is quite clear then that promoting small business growth with tools such a micro-lending and social inclusion can go a long way to addressing the very real issue of the eu’s unemployed youth. with over 20% of young adults currently unemployed and with no sign of a substantial remedy in sight, the institutions must maintain and expand their focus on those methods that have shown results, namely micro-financing and small business development. the collection of administrative activities should provide streamlining and focus for these three programmes, to help them better reach their goals and promote further development throughout the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a european union programme for social change and social innovation. the programme should contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, in particular the poverty reduction and employment objectives. to this end, the programme should support the implementation of strategic initiatives, paying particular attention to the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, the agenda for new skills and jobs and the 'youth on the move' initiative, as well as the youth opportunities initiative. in particular, the programme should contribute to the identification, analysis and scaling up of innovative solutions and their practical application through social policy experimentation, in order to assist member states, where necessary, to increase the efficiency of their labour markets and further improve their social protection and inclusion policies. the programme should also pay particular attention to the territorial dimension of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, in particular the growing inequalities that exist within and between regions, between rural and urban areas, as well as in cities.
in writing. − the european union's policy on the environment and climate change has improved significantly in recent years, reflected in the actual improvement in the state of the environment in the eu. however, at european level, there are still many challenges to be addressed, which is why i welcome the establishment of the special funding programme for environment and climate policies life. it is intended to act as a catalyst for change in policy development and implementation by providing and disseminating solutions and best practices to achieve environmental and climate objectives. i am confident that this programme will also successfully address some of the key challenges facing the union: halting and reversing the decline in biodiversity, improving resource efficiency, and addressing environmental and health concerns.
in writing. − the risks associated with environmental degradation and climate change are some of the most profound and very long-term challenges facing the european union today. combating climate change and strengthening the union's resilience to the associated risks must be a key priority of our political efforts. in the period 2007-2013, life+ has proven to be such a specific financial instrument. as the only separate union financial instrument targeting these areas, it has proven over the years to be an indispensable part of the union's effort to combat climate change and environmental degradation. life+ has repeatedly been evaluated as a highly successful programme. its high european added value and significant catalytic effect were highlighted. the continuation of the life+ programme in the future, for the period 2014-2020, is indispensable in my view, as it is essential to substantially strengthen the programme, also in terms of financial support.
in writing. − over the past 20 years, life has achieved considerable success as a means of addressing the environmental and climate challenges facing european citizens. the commission's proposed life share of the general eu budget of 0,3% is disproportionately low in relation to the challenges and opportunities of the transition to a sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient and biodiverse society. in its resolution on the eu biodiversity strategy, the european parliament expressed its disagreement with the proposed funding for the new life programme and considered that the challenges addressed in the biodiversity and nature conservation plan require a substantial increase in the funding allocated to the life programme. today's vote in favour of an adequate budget for the life programme is a strong signal that the eu is serious about its environmental and climate commitments. i believe that european solidarity must play an important role in supporting member states and regions with a low project selection rate in trying to achieve a higher quality of environmental projects and thus increase the absorption rate of funds.
in writing. − i believe that the commission should propose a method for monitoring the long-term success of projects, especially in the field of nature and biodiversity.
in writing. − i voted for the life programme in support of vital projects to protect the environment and to assist the implementation of eu legislation. i welcome the co-financing of projects to improve nature protection, waste management, and water and air quality, as this should lead to direct and long-lasting positive impacts on human health.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme for environment and climate policy (life) because the programme will contribute to the achievement of a low-carbon, resource-efficient and climate-resilient economy. the life programme has two sub-programmes with three priority areas each: -the environment sub-programme with the priority areas: environment and resource efficiency; nature and biodiversity; environmental governance and information. - and the sub-programme for climate policy with the priority areas of climate change mitigation; adaptation to climate change; climate governance and information. the financial envelope for the implementation of the life programme for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 3 456 655 000 in current prices, broken down as follows: - eur 2 592 491 250 shall be allocated to the sub-programme for environment; - eur 864 163 750 shall be allocated to the sub-programme for climate policy. union funding shall be provided through: grants; procurement contracts; contributions to financial instruments, in accordance with the provisions on financial instruments laid down in regulation (eu) no 966/2012, in particular articles 139 and 140 thereof, and in accordance with pronounced operational requirements laid down in specific union acts; or any other type of intervention necessary to achieve the general objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the amended proposal for a regulation establishing an action programme for taxation in the european union for the period 2014-2020 (fiscalis 2020) and repealing decision no 1482/2007/ec. it will actively strengthen the functioning of taxation systems in the internal market, while contributing to the progressive removal of existing barriers and distortions in the internal market. the operational objectives and priorities of the programme are: -to implement, improve, operate and support european tax information systems; -to support administrative cooperation activities; -to strengthen the skills and competences of officials in tax administrations; -strengthening the understanding and implementation of union law in the tax field; -supporting the improvement of administrative procedures and sharing good practice in the administrative field. the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme is set at eur 223 366 000 in current prices. the union's financial support for the activities referred to in article 7 shall take the form of grants, public procurement contracts and reimbursement of the costs of the external experts referred to in article 4. the countries participating in the programme are the member states, the acceding countries, the candidate countries and potential candidate countries as well as the partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because customs cooperation is essential to enhance security at the borders of the european union. the exchange of good practices between the competent authorities of the member states can also lead to a more effective fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. technical capacity building will be required in the period ahead, including support to participating countries in the acquisition and maintenance of equipment and the development of human skills. by preventing cross-border fraud, on the one hand, revenues to national budgets can be increased and, on the other, adequate protection of european citizens is ensured.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing an action programme for customs in the european union for the period 2014-2020 (customs 2020) and repealing decision no 624/2007/ec. customs authorities face complex challenges on a daily basis and effective cooperation between union customs authorities has become increasingly important. this regulation establishes a multiannual action programme 'customs 2020' with the aim of improving the functioning of the customs union. the programme shall cover the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for the period 2014-2020 is set at eur 522 943 000. the annual appropriations shall be authorised by the european parliament and the council within the limits of the multiannual financial framework. the general objective of the programme is to support the functioning and modernisation of the customs union with a view to strengthening the internal market through cooperation between the participating countries, their customs authorities and their officials. the specific objectives are to support customs authorities in protecting the financial and economic interests of the union and the member states, including the fight against fraud and the protection of intellectual property rights, to enhance safety and security, to protect citizens and the environment, to improve the administrative capacity of customs authorities and to strengthen the competitiveness of european businesses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the deadlines for transposing and implementing the directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) needed to be amended to avoid a situation of prolonged legal uncertainty and to ensure the legal continuity of the current solvency provisions. the supervisory authorities and insurance and reinsurance undertakings should also be given a period of time to prepare for the application of the solvency ii package. last but not least, the alignment of that directive with the omnibus ii directive was necessary to ensure uniform application and to create an appropriate framework in the field.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to amend directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) as regards its date of transposition and application and the date of repeal of certain directives. directive 2009/138/ec provides for a modern, risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the union. that system is essential to ensure the safety and soundness of the insurance sector so that it can provide sustainable insurance products and support the real economy by encouraging long-term investment and added stability. in order to avoid imposing unduly burdensome legislative obligations on member states under directive 2009/138/ec and subsequently under the new supervisory architecture provided for in the omnibus ii proposal, the date for transposition and the date of application of the directive is postponed, allowing sufficient time for supervisors and insurance and reinsurance undertakings to prepare for the application of the new architecture. the proposal sets 31 january 2015 as the date for transposition and 1 january 2016 as the date for application of the directive. the proposal also amends articles 310 and 311 accordingly by setting a new date for the repeal of solvency i (1 january 2016).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the state of play of the doha development agenda and preparations for the ninth wto ministerial conference. the doha round negotiations were launched in 2001 with the objectives of creating new trade opportunities, strengthening multilateral trade rules and addressing current trade system imbalances, with the needs and interests of developing countries, and in particular least developed countries, at the heart of the negotiations. the wto ministerial meetings to conclude the doha round reached a deadlock at the end of july 2008, but the 9th wto ministerial conference will take place in indonesia from 3 to 6 december 2013. i consider it important to discuss and remove barriers to trade and investment affecting the services sectors, including ict and telecommunications, professional and business services, financial services, e-commerce, construction, retail and distribution. i also believe that technology transfer can be a driver for growth and trade and welcome the resumption of negotiations on the extension of the information technology agreement, which increases both the range of products covered and the number of participating countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the low rate of economic growth and the high unemployment rate, especially among young people, require a coordinated approach. we need strong measures in the short, medium and long term to facilitate and strengthen entrepreneurship at eu level. it is worrying that economic uncertainty is discouraging eu citizens from taking the initiative to work independently. therefore, there is a need to step up efforts to provide incentives in this regard and to develop a culture of attractiveness to entrepreneurship. the european union can and must complement member states' actions in this area by means of cooperation, exchange of best practice, advice and ongoing assistance. last but not least, i believe that the member states, and the commission, must constantly assess measures to favour tax breaks for small and medium-sized enterprises that employ young people.
in writing. − i support the proposal that the revival of entrepreneurship in europe be linked to the commission's industrial policy activities and coordinated efforts to improve the entrepreneurial culture in europe. european statistics show that the number of eu citizens considering working independently in the current context of economic uncertainty is decreasing. as such, europe needs to explore all possibilities to adopt specific measures and targets to make entrepreneurship attractive again, including for skilled and experienced workers and especially in sectors of strategic importance for the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the entrepreneurship 2020 action plan: revitalising entrepreneurship in europe. we invite the commission to strengthen support, advice and assistance measures for enterprises, in particular for the smallest enterprises, and also to promote the creation of clusters, business networks and business associations that support the development of competitive advantages, benefit from the shared management of human resources and lead to increased competitiveness. we propose that member states could request additional funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund and the european social fund to provide support and advice for setting up a business, and not just to justify the continued relocation of businesses. we call on member states to grant a two-year grace period for newly established businesses in respect of social security contributions and a three-year grace period for all taxes in advance, so that in the first three years businesses only pay taxes on the profits actually generated. the system must be fully transparent to prevent any abuse. we also ask the commission to ensure that member states reduce the timeframe for granting concessions and other approvals required for setting up a company to one month.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because an effective european defence policy must start from a development of defence capabilities. romania is on track to achieve this goal, following the inauguration of the deveselu missile shield on 28 october. it is yet another proof of the excellent cooperation between my country and our american partners, being a concrete result of the strategic partnership between romania and the united states. i should mention that the shield will not only provide protection for romania against possible ballistic missile attacks, but for the entire region. however, romania's contribution to the security of the union is not limited to the missile shield. through peacekeeping missions involving romanian soldiers and sometimes their sacrifice, romania has demonstrated that it is a credible partner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (based on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy). strengthening the technological and industrial base in the defence sector is a union objective enshrined in articles 42 (3) and 45 teu. a robust european defence technological and industrial base, capable of further enhancing europe's military capabilities while maintaining the eu's strategic autonomy, is essential for an effective european defence. we consider certification and standardisation to be of particular importance for improving interoperability of armed forces and we ask the european council to mandate the eea to prepare a roadmap for the development of defence industrial standards. we call on the european council to develop guidelines for the implementation of the eu cybersecurity strategy and to take concrete action on cybersecurity infrastructure protection and investment to enhance eu-wide cooperation on crisis management procedures, cybersecurity exercises, training and education. i attach particular importance to europe's energy supply and diversified and sustainable access to energy resources, as well as to energy efficiency in the field of defence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that there is now a risk that budget cuts in some countries will affect companies in the defence sector. i'll give you the example of romania, where the number of employees in the defense industry has dropped very much. and recently, the current government announced that it intends to start a new restructuring of the sector, which will most likely lead to new layoffs. on the one hand, i believe that there is a need to reduce barriers to cross-border auctions. and on the other hand, i believe that joint projects will reduce costs for member states and allow for a more efficient use of resources. last but not least, facilities will have to be provided for specialist companies to stimulate innovation, especially in the case of dual-use products.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the european defence industrial and technological base because i believe that the european defence sector is a major source of economic growth and innovation. as the european defence economy faces a number of challenges, a new approach is needed that leads to greater economies of scale and increased industrial competition. we invite member states to develop their defence industrial and technological bases and centres of excellence based on key technologies on the territory of the european union. support cooperation between large enterprises and universities as the knowledge base of universities can be expanded as a result of cooperation. we invite the european council to launch the process of developing a european capabilities and armaments policy as set out in article 42 (3) teu. considers that standardisation of military equipment is important for the creation of a competitive european single defence market, as well as for ensuring interoperability and facilitating cooperation in arms programmes, pooling and sharing projects, and interoperability among member states' forces, thus reducing maintenance and operational costs and ensuring the optimal use of member states' defence capabilities in joint operations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which addresses the priority issues facing the european union. i am concerned that the inequalities that already exist between member states continue to grow. the increasing disparities both within member states and within regions and social groups in some countries are also leading to a constant polarization of unemployment rates. last but not least, i would also like to support the proposal that the proposed indicators on youth unemployment should voluntarily include young people up to the age of 30 as provided for in the youth guarantee.
in writing. − we know that the unemployment in the eu has reached the alarming level of 26.6 million people and that youth unemployment rates have reached unprecedented levels, averaging 23 % for the eu as a whole. the purpose of the social dimension of emu is to provide social security and a sufficient living standard for current and future generations, and therefore it is important for eu citizens to see that their union is capable of promoting social progress. the council and the commission should take concrete action to make the social impact of policies and reforms more transparent, through the ex ante and ex post impact assessment and monitoring of policy reforms. the council should define concrete benchmarks for employment and social indicators in the form of an eu social protection floor, with a view to promoting upward social convergence and social progress. also, it is necessary to support the great potential of social entrepreneurship in respect of all aspects of social innovation at the european level, in order to foster national social systems, boost growth and create new jobs in the white and green economies, especially for young people, in all member states and regions.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's proposal that the proposed indicators on youth unemployment should voluntarily include young people up to the age of 30 as provided for in the youth guarantee, and the inclusion of additional indicators in the scoreboard, in particular a child poverty index and a decent work index, to allow for an adequate assessment of the social situation in the eu.
in writing. this resolution is a further step in the fight of the european parliament and the socialists and democrats for the european union to strengthen the social dimension of its economic and monetary union. the current situation is worrying. unemployment in the union now stands at an alarming 26.6 million, and youth unemployment is at unprecedented levels, with an average of 23% for the union as a whole. since 2007, poverty rates in the union have increased and household incomes have decreased, with the result that 24.2% of the european population is now at risk of poverty or social exclusion. this situation is intolerable. it is necessary to insist that social considerations be placed at the heart of european integration. the social dimension of emu is to guarantee social security and a sufficient standard of living for all, and european citizens must therefore be aware that the union is capable of promoting social progress. finally, more support is needed for the voluntary mobility of workers in order to make the most of the union's employment potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission communication entitled 'strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union'. the level of poverty has been rising in the eu since 2007, while household incomes are falling, with the result that 24.2% of the eu population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. unemployment in the eu has reached 26.6 million and youth unemployment has reached unprecedented levels, with an eu average of 23%. i voted for amendment no 10, which supports the creation of a scoreboard of the main social and employment indicators and the integration of social and employment indicators into the scoreboard for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. we call for these indicators to be placed on a par with existing budgetary and macroeconomic indicators in national policy assessments and country-specific recommendations, as well as in decisions on the correction of excessive deficits and excessive macroeconomic imbalances. i voted for amendment no 11 which calls on the commission to change the status of employment and social indicators (proposed for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure) from 'auxiliary' to 'principal' indicators and to include an indicator to measure inequality.
i would like to make a strong appeal to the bangladeshi authorities to ensure the democratic framework necessary for the elections in january 2014. despite the government's decision last week to raise the minimum wage for textile workers, it remains insufficient to ensure a decent standard of living in this country, the world's second-largest exporter of garments. i strongly condemn the exploitation of bangladeshi workers and the brutal repression of demonstrations for social rights and increased protection against workplace accidents. social and political instability was amplified by the death sentences of 152 military men accused of rebellion. we are concerned about the continuing violence in a country that has suffered from a long history of armed coups and we call for an end to any actions that could escalate tensions on the eve of the elections.
mr. president, qatar is a country in a special situation, because it's the country with the highest proportion of foreign workers in the world. discrimination in the labour market is unacceptable from a european perspective. the fact that workers are not provided with reasonable working conditions or that their passports are confiscated cannot be tolerated. the discussion about all this came in the context of organizing the 2022 fifa world cup. it is clear, however, that the issue of workers in these situations must be resolved well before the sporting event in question. therefore, any effort to improve the situation is welcome. i noted in this regard that the government in doha is investigating the matter by commissioning a study from a well-known legal consulting firm. but we need legislative initiatives to maintain a good relationship with our partners in qatar.
i join my colleagues in condemning the realities faced by migrant workers in one of the richest countries in the world. the precarious work, lack of or delayed remuneration and abusive treatment of workers who have generated prosperity in recent years by qatari employers are human rights violations. the working environment for the construction and strengthening of the infrastructure needed to host the 2022 fifa world cup lacks minimum safety standards. this has led to one construction worker dying every day this summer in qatar, after more than 1,000 people were hospitalized last year. we call on the qatari authorities to implement the current legislation and the newly adopted reforms and to guarantee decent working and living conditions for every person active in the labour market. qatar must also respect international commitments on the protection of workers and informing migrants of their rights.
mr president, for more than five years now the bolivian authorities have kept előd tóásó and mario tadić in pre-trial detention without charge. this is in obvious contradiction of bolivian law and of the international human rights agreements signed by the country. the pre-trial detention period of those two european citizens should have ended on 16 april 2012 – so more than one year ago – yet they are still in jail. moreover, these two men have been tortured, abused and denied medical treatment. i urge the bolivian authorities to release them and ensure a fair and independent trial for the two of them. in addition, when the bolivian special forces proceeded with the arrest of előd tóásó and mario tadić, three other persons were killed during the shooting. i call for an independent investigation with international experts to throw light on the circumstances of their deaths, and i expect the european external action service to keep these two issues high on the agenda of its bilateral relationship with bolivia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the investigation into the truth of these accusations has to be conducted by the authorities in the country and not by parliamentarians. we can go and look at the conditions of detention. that is what we can do. with regard to the accusation, there was a formal accusation which really, sincerely, most people do not believe. keeping someone in prison in pre-trial detention for more than five years without bringing them to trial on a specific charge is not an example of the rule of law.
in the case of előd tóásó and mario tadic, two eu citizens are currently being illegally detained in bolivia and three of their comrades have died in disorderly circumstances. the internal politics of bolivia and this case may never be fully understood, but it is clear that the proceedings against the two defendants cannot be considered independent or impartial. the union cannot allow its citizens to be intimidated in a third country and then imprisoned without evidence and without a final judgment. the eu is bolivia's fifth largest trading partner. 65% of its foreign working capital investments come from europe. in latin america, bolivia is the largest beneficiary of eu bilateral development cooperation and the largest beneficiary of development aid. meanwhile, we are unable to protect our citizens and enforce international human rights treaties in this country? (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
that's a two-card answer. i don't deal with qatar or bolivia, i deal with asean and japan and the european union and minority issues in neighboring countries. elder toásó is from my country, a romanian hungarian, and that's why i'm interested in your question. obviously, when it comes to qatar, we will be equally as strong on human rights issues.
in writing. in deep-sea areas we find unique, vulnerable species and habitats such as corals and sponge ecosystems, which are threatened by the use of aggressive impact fishing methods such as trawls or bottom trawls. it is very important that we eliminate those fishing gear that are destructive to the aquatic environment and promote sustainable fishing. in this respect, i support the rapporteur's compromise proposal on the elimination of harmful fishing practices in those areas with vulnerable ecosystems. at the same time, support and use alternative fishing practices such as the use of longlines, as these are not only less harmful to marine ecosystems, but also have the capacity to support six times more jobs than other deep-sea fishing gear.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms fraga, and the committee on fisheries for their work on this proposal. but i would also like to thank the committee on budgets and the committee on development who have given support to this proposal. so it is not only the fisheries committee but also the budgets and development committees that are supporting this proposal. i would like to remind you that two years ago this house rejected our proposal referring to a possible agreement with morocco on fisheries. but this house also asked me to negotiate a new agreement. you asked the commission to negotiate a new agreement, and of course you put conditions on these new negotiations: economic profitability, environmental sustainability and compliance with international law. so i can say to you that the agreement we have reached with the moroccan authorities is in full accordance with these conditions you have already set. i took parliament’s message on board and i negotiated. it took me 18 difficult months to reach this agreement. and let me be clear: i think that this is the best possible agreement we can have, and no other agreement will be possible if parliament decides to reject it. of course it is up to you to decide, but i would like you to know that if you decide to reject it there will be no other agreement in place. but i really think that this agreement fulfils your demands and concerns. let me explain why. this agreement is economically profitable. this is also understood and underlined by parliament’s committee on budgets. fishing possibilities increase by 33%, eu taxpayers’ payments decrease by 30% and the eu fleet is expected to benefit by up to eur 100 million per year. we have to think about the social consequences of this agreement and that is why the social partners – both sides, the ship-owners and the workers – strongly support this agreement. the trade union etf, the european transport federation, has come to me strongly supporting this agreement. this agreement is also environmentally sustainable: the protocol contains clear legal obligations for sustainable exploitation, based on scientific assessment, providing certainty that only the surplus will be fished. so this is what we asked for: only the surplus will be fished. finally, the protocol is compliant with international law. let me explain this a little bit further. first i would like to make one point very clear: no legal authority until now – including the united nations, the european court of justice or the legal service of any of the eu institutions (commission, council, and parliament) – has ever said that an agreement with morocco covering western sahara is illegal. nobody. what they do say – and rightly so – is that such an agreement must fulfil certain conditions; in particular, referring to this fisheries agreement, that fishing activities must benefit the local population. these are the conditions we have to meet, and may i also say that, if we had legal advice saying that any agreement with morocco would be illegal, then no agreement referring to the western sahara could be adopted by this parliament. i would like to remind you that we already have an agreement with morocco, including the western sahara territory. you have voted for trade and other agreements referring to this territory. and i think that this is the only way to keep working with morocco, unless you think that we have to end our relations with this country. of course it is up to you to decide. i would also like to underline that there is a human rights clause within the protocol. i would also like to underline that this agreement is better, absolutely better, than the agreements you have voted for before. why? because we have introduced a very detailed reporting obligation on morocco. morocco must report on the economic and social benefits, for example on employment and investments. but they also have to report on the geographical distribution of all sectoral support projects. so we can see whether the local population can benefit from our taxpayers’ money. i may also say to you that, if we have any doubts, we can also ask our delegation in morocco to carry out fact-finding missions. so there are a lot of safety clauses referring to all your concerns. i have listened to your concerns, the concerns of parliament and i have done my part. of course i can understand that your concerns perhaps go further than fisheries and this agreement, but i would like to underline that realistically this is the best agreement we have. i think that the best way for the european union to go in the interests of all the moroccan population, including all territories’ populations, is to keep in contact with morocco and come to an agreement.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mrs carmen fraga estévez, on her report. the opinion i drafted in the committee on development is in the same vein: it is not simply a reiteration of the previous text, but a substantially new agreement, which in fact responds to the criticisms made by our parliament in december 2011, two years ago. we have already mentioned that the cost-benefit ratio has improved significantly. i would also like to point out that half of the union's financial contribution is intended to develop the moroccan fisheries sector, which is of course in the direction of development. secondly, there is the question of the principle of sustainability, which becomes an essential condition for the activity envisaged. thirdly, the economic and social impact of the protocol on local populations can be assessed. in conclusion, this is a good protocol, especially since the human rights dimension is clearly present and the protocol can be suspended in the event of a violation. i therefore support the adoption of this new text.
on behalf of the ppe group. we all know that there are serious shortcomings in the implementation of national roma integration strategies in the member states of the union. the question here and now is whether member states are serious about making efforts to improve the situation of roma and are prepared to take the first steps in a long process to do so. positive change is very difficult to hope for in the short term, but the foundations for future success should be laid now. money is only one of the important factors in dealing with problems effectively: we very often see that the funds available do not reach the beneficiaries and we also see serious irregularities in the monitoring of programmes. it is also important that the geographical balance be maintained between the member states: not only the focus on communities concentrated on the periphery of large cities, but also the problems of roma living in rural areas. in particular, there are some astonishing insights that in romania, the western and central regions of the country do not need to be looked at in this respect, because the real problems are in the south and east. we must say emphatically that this is not so. in the case of romania, roma communities are present throughout the country and unfortunately in similarly difficult social conditions. the commission has an important role to play in the implementation of these strategies, as improving the situation of roma communities is a common responsibility and a european issue that cannot be seen as the responsibility of a few member states alone.
madam president, the european roma integration strategy was drawn up in 2011, followed by the national reports in 2012 and a first report by the european commission and the council in 2013. these initiatives create a solid basis in the process of solving roma problems. however, i do see the inadequacy of the gender approach, which means that there is a need to focus the analysis in this direction, which is practically the aim of the report we are going to vote on tomorrow. roma women are known to live in a deeply patriarchal, traditionalist society, where economic dependence, domestic violence, limited access to education, early marriage and pregnancy have consequences on their health, personal fulfilment and social status. the european roma integration strategy must address the integration of roma women separately, which can reduce discrimination against them in general, as well as within their own community. in my view, the strategy should focus on cooperation between member states to avoid tensions, exchange of good practices and cross-border solutions, given the traditional mobility of these ethnic groups, and also provide for concrete measures to involve non-governmental organisations, but also the ethnic groups themselves, in solving this complex european problem of the european integration of the roma. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. it's a delicate matter. moreover, in romania there have been numerous concrete measures by which such early marriages are practically not legal. there is talk of engagement, there is talk of other such measures, but it is very true that, in view of the best interests of the child, such marriages are not permitted in my country. this means that the legislation is basically the same as the european one. the problem is that we have to know these traditions very well, because they exist. we have to try, through education, as it's been said here, especially, to bring about change within the community, which basically leads to this idea of communication, of talking to these ethnicities.
in writing. following the poor progress made by member states in implementing national roma integration strategies, the european parliament resolution of 12 december calls on the member states and the european commission to create an effective mechanism at eu level for the implementation and evaluation of national roma integration strategies. the resolution also calls for the active involvement and empowerment of roma people in the development and management of roma inclusion strategies and policies, with the commission tasked with establishing a mechanism to monitor and take firm action in the event of violations of roma fundamental rights. education plays an important role in the process of roma integration, and the resolution calls on states to facilitate access to education for roma children and to provide the necessary infrastructure for teacher training to prevent school dropout. the involvement of ngos in the education process can ensure access for roma to mentoring programmes and vocational training courses that allow access to the labour market. an integrated approach to the use of european and national funds, as well as the involvement of civil society, local and regional authorities, would ensure the success of national roma integration strategies in urban and rural communities.
mr president, in the context of today's international anti-corruption day, i draw attention to the fact that the socialist government in romania continues to obstruct justice and the fight against corruption. the 2014 budget brings significant cuts to the main institutions in the field of justice. ani will lose 10,3 million lei compared to this year, or 34,2%, contrary to the recommendations of the cvm commission. the budget of the ministry of justice is reduced by 94 million lei compared to last year, and that of the public ministry is reduced by 41 million lei compared to 2013. in addition, the ponta government has a minister being sued by the dna and several deputies and senators are protected by the parliament through usl majority decisions.
mr president, on 1 january 2014, after seven long years, the transitional barriers will be lifted on the labour markets in all member states. in britain, a vicious media campaign has created the false expectation of an allied romanian and bulgarian invasion. british officials have even hinted that new restrictions could be introduced by britain. this is simply false and dangerous as it encourages public disapproval of the rights enshrined in the european treaties. the so-called debate in britain would be hilarious if it were not shameful, and i regret that this house did not find worthy of debate the implications of the british attitude to the completion of the single market.
i call on the european parliament to get involved in establishing a strict control of the opinion poll market at continental level, with exemplary penalties for offenders. we cannot talk about democracy and free elections if they are tainted by blatant fraud. ladies and gentlemen, i said those two phrases in this room on march 12, 2012. but i spoke, i heard. since then, there have been parliamentary elections in my country, romania, which have also been stolen. on 25 may 2014, elections will also be held for the european parliament. i have no doubt that these will be stolen as well. the mechanism is simple, like in a stupid movie. the secret services run everything with the approval of the yankee masters of the penal colony called romania, and the undercover officers of this new securitate have made their own lying polling institutes and television stations. some european officials turn a blind eye. what's the point of elections? how effective is the european parliament?
in writing. the fight against organised crime requires a coherent response from the european union in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. with a budget of €472 million for the period 2014-2020, the justice programme will extend the application of member states' laws and policies and will contain simplified administrative procedures and harmonised rules. funding from the justice programme will be targeted at concrete results. one of these is to meet the eu's target of training 700,000 legal practitioners by 2020. access to the programme's funds will be open to public agencies and private bodies in the member states and candidate countries wishing to participate in the justice programme. it is important that public procurement under this programme is protected and that olaf investigates suspected fraud with european money.
rapporteur for the opinion. − mr president, the civil protection mechanism as a fundamental role is a key solidarity-based instrument for a european rapid response to a wide spectrum of crises. both the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs and our report on the solidarity and mutual defence clauses supported the general approach of the proposal, which consists in transforming the current ad hoc system into pre-planned disaster management while respecting the leading role and primary responsibility of member states in civil protection. the committee on foreign affairs welcomed the increased focus on prevention and preparedness and highlighted the importance of shared risk assessment and contingency planning. a need to ensure consistency with the implementation of the solidarity clause is clearly underlined in our document and in the final report we are debating today. a significant point in the foreign affairs committee’s opinion was the need to reach an adequate balance between the imperative of rapid response on the one hand, and coherence of eu external relations on the other. finally we appreciate the constructive approach and support of commissioner kristalina georgieva and the representatives of the eeas.
the recent typhoon that caused widespread disaster in the philippines is a tragic reminder of the increased incidence of extreme weather events caused by climate change. extreme weather will cause more and more such devastating events in the future. while we know these events will increase in frequency and intensity, we cannot predict when they will occur. this is why it is all the more important to be prepared for such situations, to be able to react quickly and effectively, and the union civil protection mechanism will help us in this regard. the agreement that has been negotiated with the council will significantly improve the current mechanism, ensure better risk assessment, increased public awareness, improved coordination and communication, increased operational capacity. so we are not just talking about flimsy steps or superficial progress in the best direction. we are talking about real improvements, based on a strengthened european solidarity, and they can really help save lives.
madam president, commissioner, i consider it very important that local and regional authorities are involved in emergency assistance and civil protection operations. at the same time, cross-border regions must step up their cooperation in order to coordinate joint intervention actions. the harmonisation of emergency codes across all member states through the new mechanism contributes significantly to the rapid detection and early warning of disasters and will allow for common prevention and response measures. increasing mobility in emergency situations by creating a system of alternative transport routes can improve access to emergency assistance, in particular in remote or limited areas. the on-the-spot intervention modules, supported by volunteer teams, in less populated areas have demonstrated a rapid response capability in the field of civil protection. the preparation and coordination of voluntary actions by teams of experts contributes to increasing the capacity to intervene. i congratulate the reporter on her excellent work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that improving the functioning of the judiciary is essential for romania, especially in the context of the existence of the cvm for my country. therefore, the exchange of good practices, information sessions or other forms of cooperation between european judicial frameworks could be a solution to make the system more efficient in my country as well. the objectives must be to ensure the application of european law but also to guarantee access to justice for our citizens. long and exhausting trials must become the exception rather than the rule. and the professionalism and impartiality of the magistrates be a certainty. this will also increase the degree of trust in the judiciary and ultimately in the authorities.
in writing. i voted in favour of this programme, which funds actions at european level that contribute to the further establishment of a european area of justice based on mutual recognition and trust, in particular by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. i welcome its adoption, as the actions it funds have the potential to foster mutual trust between member states and to improve cross-border cooperation, the development and dissemination of best practice in the field of justice. the justice programme for the period 2014-2020 is expected to have a significant impact on judicial cooperation in the eu, by funding a number of concrete actions, such as analysis, training, mutual learning and cooperation activities. the programme should promote support for networking activities at european level between specialised bodies and entities, as well as national, regional and local authorities and ngos. finally, i am pleased that, in the implementation of all its actions, the programme seeks to promote equality between women and men and the rights of the child, in particular through child-friendly justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the 'justice' programme for the period 2014-2020. in the process of developing a european area of justice, i consider it particularly important to guarantee the rule of law and an independent and efficient judiciary and to respect fundamental rights and common principles such as non-discrimination, gender equality, effective access to justice for all. the 'justice' programme has a budget of eur 377 604 million and aims to: - facilitate and support judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters - 30% of the financial envelope; - support and promotion of judicial training, including linguistic training on legal terminology, in order to foster a common legal and judicial culture - 35% of the financial envelope; - facilitating effective access to justice for all, including promoting and supporting the rights of victims of crime, while respecting the right of defence - 30% of the financial envelope; - support for drug policy initiatives in the areas of judicial cooperation and crime prevention which are closely linked to the overall objective of the 'justice' programme - 5% of the financial envelope. the commission shall adopt annual work programmes in the form of implementing acts.
in writing. − i supported the report because the programme can play a very important role in combating discrimination. we all see populist parties gaining ground amid the crisis. and often these parties are based on messages that encourage discrimination against foreigners. as a romanian, i know the difficulties faced by my fellow citizens in many states. what worries me is that in some of these countries, the very authorities are encouraging these trends. that's why i think the program should be based primarily on information campaigns that combat discrimination.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the new programme now focuses on promoting the rights associated with european citizenship, the principles of non-discrimination, equality between women and men, children's rights, data protection and consumer and business issues. the 'rights and citizenship' programme has its origins in the simplification and rationalisation of funding instruments, being the successor of the three current daphne iii programmes, progress (which funds actions related to gender equality and the anti-discrimination section) and fundamental rights and citizenship.
in writing. − the establishment of the 'rights and citizenship' programme for the period 2014-2020 is the natural follow-up, and the necessary response, to combat a number of dangerous phenomena, which have been accentuated in the recent period by the consequences of the economic and social crisis. i am talking about xenophobia, racism, anti-semitism, discrimination, including gender discrimination, exclusion, intolerance. these phenomena are in flagrant contradiction with the union's founding values, with the principles that guide us, with the interests of european citizens. we also need to be aware of the rise in social violence, the problems of young people and women, the decline in trust in democracy and its political institutions. the programme under discussion is primarily aimed at european citizens, raising their awareness of the effects of these phenomena and their rights and obligations. this programme is an important step towards building a genuine european citizenship. this is why i voted in favour of the adoption of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'rights and citizenship' programme for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − given that the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and that these values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men, i consider that all persons are entitled to enjoy within the union the rights conferred on them by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and by the treaty on european union (teu).
in writing. i voted in favour of this programme establishing the resources for the european union to finance actions in the field of equality and citizenship. the general objective of the programme is to contribute to the further development of an area for the promotion, protection and effective implementation of equality and human rights as enshrined in the treaties of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights, as well as in the international conventions on human rights to which the union is a party. for the period 2014-2020, the programme will notably finance a number of concrete actions that should have a real impact on the ground, in particular with the actors most involved in the field of fundamental rights and local citizenship. these actions will consist of analysis, mutual learning, cooperation, awareness-raising and dissemination activities, support to key actors whose activities contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, such as regional and local authorities and ngos, including through action grants or operating grants.
in writing. − the 'rights, equality and citizenship' programme follows the three previous programmes in this field: fundamental rights and citizenship, daphne iii and the 'diversity and the fight against discrimination' and 'equality between men and women' parts of the employment and social equality (progress) programme. the ambitious objectives of the programme are to promote greater protection of children's rights and the rights deriving from union citizenship. furthermore, as the proposed amendments to the original draft resolution underline, the main indicators for measuring the achievement of these objectives should be adapted to measurement standards which can actually be functional to the proper implementation of the programme and thus useful for checking the progress of the programme and any critical points.
in writing. − the 'rights and citizenship' programme 2014-2020 is key to upholding the european fundamental rights which came into law with the lisbon treaty. given the abuses against citizens' rights based on discrimination based on sex, race, ethnic origin, religion or sexual orientation, we need to ensure that we protect european citizens by providing legislative, executive and information support. the funding of such a programme is necessary to ensure its success and effectiveness for the purpose for which it is proposed. if we do not tackle xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance, we risk jeopardising the very foundations of the european union. moreover, violence against vulnerable groups such as children, young people and women cannot be addressed without coordinating the efforts of ngos with those of national and international authorities. in this context, personal data can also be discussed, which must have a uniform legal framework in all member states. the year 2013 is the year of the european citizen. we have to show them that they won't be forgotten once the theme changes!
in writing. − the rights and citizenship programme aims to promote the rights deriving from european citizenship, with particular regard to the fight against discrimination. at the same time, we must be able to respond to the fact that many european citizens feel that they can only enjoy the rights of european citizenship if they study, work and settle in another member state, whereas the majority of them are not. as regards fundamental rights, the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights are binding only on the eu institutions and on the application of eu law by the member states, and cannot be relied upon by reason of the actions of the member states. if this were to change - and this would obviously require a treaty change - the institution of european citizenship would also have a much greater significance for citizens and confidence in the european institutions would increase.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the adoption of the regulation establishing, for the period 2014-2020, the programme 'rights, equality and citizenship' with a financial envelope for its implementation of eur 439 473 000 and the following specific objectives: - promoting the effective application of the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation and respect for the principle of non-discrimination; - preventing and combating racism, xenophobia, homophobia and other forms of intolerance; - promoting and protecting the rights of persons with disabilities; -promoting equality between women and men and developing an inclusive approach to it; - preventing and combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women, and violence against other groups at risk, in particular those at risk of violence in close relationships, and protecting the victims of such violence; -the promotion and protection of the rights of the child; - contributing to the highest level of protection of privacy and personal data; -promote and improve the exercise of the rights attaching to union citizenship; - ensuring that citizens, as consumers or entrepreneurs in the internal market, can exercise their rights under union law, in the light of projects financed under the consumer protection programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i would like to welcome this step taken by the european union in its relations with the republic of moldova, especially in the context of the economic pressures the country has been undergoing. the liberalisation of wine trade is the first concrete measure taken by the european union after the initialling of the association agreement by the republic of moldova. i also want to call for the signing of this agreement as soon as possible so that it can be applied provisionally. last but not least, i hope that the proposal to lift visas for citizens of the republic of moldova travelling within the union will also be voted on during the current mandate of the european parliament.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 55/2008 provides for the introduction of autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, by eliminating all customs duties on industrial products and improving access for agricultural products to the european union market. pursuant to that regulation, the autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova apply until 31 december 2015. its application after 1 january 2013 is also conditional on the successful completion of certain procedures within the world trade organisation. it is important to ensure the continuity of trade flows from the republic of moldova until 31 december 2015 and it is also necessary to provide legal certainty to economic operators so that they can continue to import in accordance with the regulation on autonomous trade preferences. it is also important to provide that the autonomous trade preferences apply without interruption until the expiry date laid down in regulation (ec) no 55/2008.
in writing. − the european union's economic relationship with the republic of moldova is very important to the latter, especially in the context of its complicated relations with the russian federation, one of its most important trading partners. regulation (ec) no 55/2008 provides for the introduction of autonomous trade preferences (atps) for the republic of moldova by eliminating all customs duties on industrial products and improving access of agricultural products to the european union market. the current proposal, for which i voted, aims to ensure continuity of trade flows from the republic of moldova until 31 december 2015 and to provide legal certainty to economic operators so that they can continue imports, giving a solid basis to these relations, predictability and security.
in writing. − welcomes the decision to liberalise imports of wine from the republic of moldova into the european union, which will thus be able to be exported in unlimited quantities to the european union as from 1 january 2014, especially since 45,7% of the total exports of the republic of moldova are destined for the eu; on the other hand, it is important that the adoption of this report takes place shortly after the signing of the association agreement with the eu, an agreement which creates the necessary conditions for the diversification of the markets for moldovan producers. in addition, the implementation of the provisions of the association agreement with the eu will bring the republic of moldova closer to european values and facilitate its economic integration and political association with the community.
in writing. the report by mr winkler refers to the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 establishing autonomous trade preferences for moldova. it may apply until 31 december 2013, after which time the autonomous trade preferences will be conditional upon the completion of certain procedures within the wto. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to maintain and guarantee trade flows with moldova and legal certainty for economic operators so that they can continue to import in accordance with the regulation.
in writing. − welcomes the amendment of regulation no 55/2008 introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova with a view to liberalising imports of moldovan wine as from 1 january 2014. the european parliament's vote comes at a key moment after the initiation of the eu-moldova association agreement, which also aims to create a deep and comprehensive free trade area. pending the entry into force of the association agreement, scheduled for 2015, the eu must deliver on its promises and urgently liberalise imports of wines from moldova by removing them from annex 1 to regulation 55/2008. it is well known that the ban on exporting moldovan wines to russia, which is in fact a traditional market for moldovan products, blocks its economic development. given that the agricultural sector represents 40% of the moldovan economy and employs a quarter of the workforce, the process of liberalising european wine imports from moldova should take place as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova. in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, the eu-moldova enp action plan and the eastern partnership, moldova has adopted an ambitious programme of political association and further economic integration with the union. in addition, moldova has already made significant progress in regulatory approximation with a view to convergence with union legislation and standards. negotiations for a new association agreement, including the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area between the union and moldova, started in january 2010 and were completed in july 2013. that agreement provides for the full liberalisation of bilateral trade in wine. in order to support moldova's efforts under the enp and the eastern partnership and to ensure an attractive and reliable market for its wine exports, it is necessary to liberalise imports of wine from moldova into the union without delay. in order to ensure the continuation of trade flows from moldova and legal certainty for economic operators, it is necessary that the autonomous trade preferences apply without interruption until the expiry date set out in regulation (ec) no 55/2008. it shall apply from 1 january 2014.
in writing. − after the vilnius eastern partnership summit, the eu has to reaffirm its commitment to the eap process. the epp strongly supports the european choice of moldova, acknowledges the achievements of the pro-european governments of our eastern partner and encourages moldova to continue carrying out the reforms needed for further rapprochement towards the eu. the epp welcomes the initialling, in vilnius, of the association agreement, comprising a very ambitious dcfta. nevertheless, due to necessary legal procedures of finalisation, the dctfa is foreseen to enter into force in early 2015. in this context, the immediate and full liberalisation of imports of moldovan wines to the eu is a strong signal of the political will to respond to unjustified and arbitrary pressures from russia towards our eastern partners. the regulation adopted today will immediately help moldovan wine producers to overcome the difficult situation caused by the russian ban. the full liberalisation is foreseen to enter into force as of the 1st of january 2014. the strong signal of political support of the ep towards our moldovan partner is relevant; however, the parliament will continue to follow closely the progress on the path of reforms of moldova.
in writing. − i am among those who have supported this report for several reasons. in its current form, the protocol represents an improvement to the fisheries partnership between the two parties. the previous proposal did not present a cost-benefit advantage nor did it provide a guarantee for the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks. the current protocol meets the austerity conditions we all have agreed to, with a lower financial contribution than under the previous protocol, and the criteria for the sustainable exploitation of resources. moreover, morocco will provide regular reports on the use of the financial contribution, in particular on the economic and social benefits. however, the absence of specific human rights clauses is a matter of concern to me. but on the other hand, any failure to comply with them could be sanctioned by the suspension of the protocol, as parliament has requested.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco, approving the conclusion of the protocol. on 22 may 2006, the council approved the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco by adopting regulation (ec) no 746/2006. the european union has negotiated with the kingdom of morocco a new protocol granting union vessels fishing opportunities in the waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the kingdom of morocco in the fisheries sector. it is in the interest of the union to implement the partnership agreement by means of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution thereof and defining the conditions for the promotion of responsible and sustainable fishing in the fishing zone of the kingdom of morocco. i supported the request to make available to parliament the documents on the guidelines, objectives and indicators for the chapter on support for the moroccan fisheries sector, as well as all the information necessary for the proper monitoring of the matters referred to in article 6 of the protocol.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the health and safety of workers at the workplace is of particular importance. the convention on the safety of chemicals at work is a very useful instrument that outlines the principles to be followed to achieve a high level of safety at work. employers have a responsibility to prevent the exposure of employees to chemicals that could endanger their health. workers must also comply with safety standards at work to prevent accidents. i therefore believe that the ratification by all member states of those parts of the convention on the safety of chemicals at work which fall within the competence of the european union should take place as soon as possible.
in writing. − convention no 170 on chemicals, adopted on 25 june 1990 at the 77th session of the international labour conference, entered into force on 4 november 1993. the aim of the convention is to prevent and reduce occupational diseases and accidents caused by chemicals, but the convention will also improve the protection of people and the environment. the provisions of chemicals convention no 170 address issues relating to: establishing an assessment of chemicals, obtaining information by employers from their suppliers, providing information to workers, the need for appropriate preventive measures and establishing protection programmes for workers. the european union is committed to promoting the decent work agenda, both internally and in its external relations. labour standards are a central element of the concept of decent work. the ratification of ilo conventions by member states therefore sends an important signal as regards the coherence of the union's policy to improve global labour standards. it is therefore necessary to remove at eu level any legal obstacles to the ratification by member states of those conventions, the content of which is not a cause for concern from the point of view of the existing union acquis.
in writing. − i consider this convention to be an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society in general, with a view to ensuring health and safety at work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 1990 international labour organisation convention on the safety of chemicals at work (convention no 170). i consider the protection and improvement of workers' health and safety to be an important issue and support the promotion of decent working conditions for all, both inside and outside the union. member states have an obligation under union law to harmonise laws, regulations and administrative practices relating to classification, packaging and labelling and it is therefore important that they ratify the convention in the interest of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the fight against crossborder organised crime must be a priority, both of the european union and of the member states. illegal trade in firearms is a major source of income for international organised crime groups. and very often these weapons and ammunition end up being used by terrorist groups. i too believe that firearms should be marked at the time of manufacture so that the country of origin and the manufacturer of the firearm can be identified. i also believe that the exchange of information between the signatory parties can reduce the phenomenon of cross-border trafficking in firearms. the application of this protocol will lead to an increase in the level of security for citizens of the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, additional to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. the convention is the first comprehensive instrument to combat transnational organised crime and illicit trafficking in firearms. i welcome the vote on this resolution because the signing of this protocol would make it possible to prevent and combat illicit trafficking in firearms by better controlling weapons through their marking, import and export authorizations, and by strengthening cooperation and the exchange of information between the states parties. in particular, it is very important that the exchange of information between the parties to the convention be strengthened. we will only be able to combat effectively all forms of trafficking such as arms trafficking if member states cooperate even more than criminal networks. finally, it should be stressed that the protocol enhances the security of european citizens without, however, harming the legal users of firearms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. the un international convention against transnational organized crime, adopted on 15 november 2000, is the first global instrument to combat transnational organized crime and the illicit trade in firearms. three protocols specify the convention, providing for specific measures to combat specific offences. the protocols concern, respectively, trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants and the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms. the european community signed the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms in january 2002. the protocol aims to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. it also provides for measures to confiscate weapons which have been the subject of illicit manufacture or trafficking and measures to prevent the illegal reactivation of deactivated firearms. each state party to the protocol also undertakes to retain for at least 10 years the firearms information necessary for their tracing and identification.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because, in order to ensure compliance with the rules of the international trade organisation, the union had to negotiate adjustments to compensate for the increase in customs duties due to the enlargement of the community bloc. the increase of tariff quotas is the most common practice used by the union in such cases. this ensures that the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union and, at the same time, the application by these two states of community rules on trade, does not affect previous agreements and does not cause trade damage to the partners of the two states.
in writing. − with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has expanded its customs union. consequently, the eu was obliged under wto rules (article xxiv (6) of gatt 1994) to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on the schedules of commitments of any acceding member with a view to agreeing on a mutually advantageous adjustment to compensate for the increase in the consolidated duties and the significant losses associated with it. in general, eu enlargement is a positive factor for wto members. if the countries that joined the wto had higher tariffs than the eu, the wto members would benefit. otherwise, when acceding countries have lower customs duties than the eu and are obliged to increase their customs duties, the eu compensates for the difference. so, in general, the wto member countries have a lot to gain.
in writing. − i believe that eu enlargement is a positive factor for the members of the world trade organisation (wto) and that a trade war between wto members would be in no one's interest, especially in the current context of the global economic recession.
in writing. − the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu meant that the two countries were included in the customs union of the european union. the eu therefore had to open negotiations with the world trade organisation members on the list of commitments of romania and bulgaria with a view to agreeing mutually advantageous adjustments to compensate for the increase in the consolidated customs duties and the significant losses associated with it. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had not provided any evidence that the measures were in line with the requirements of the basic regulation. as is known, the eu-china compensation agreement mainly concerns garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, bakery products and biscuits. given that the eu has already concluded similar compensation agreements with cuba, brazil, australia, new zealand, argentina and the united states, the 2012 eu-china agreement should be approved by the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the course of their accession to the european union. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with certain other member states of the world trade organisation under article xxiv (6) of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 in the context of the accession to the european union of the republic of bulgaria and romania. the negotiations were concluded and on 31 may 2012 the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the people's republic of china pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the course of their accession to the european union was initialled.
in writing. − in the context of the negotiations on a trade agreement between the european union and the united states of america, it was necessary to extend the current memorandum of understanding between the two parties, as regards imports of beef from the usa. imports into the european union of untreated beef and veal with growth hormones may continue to take place, while respecting all eu food safety standards. this measure will also provide time for negotiating a final solution to this problem. last but not least, the current memorandum could be included, at a later date, in the future trade agreement between the european union and the united states of america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of a revised memorandum of understanding with the usa on the import of beef from animals not treated with certain growth promoting hormones and on the increased duties applied by the usa to certain eu products. in 2009, the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding that opened the possibility of eliminating all us trade sanctions on eu agricultural products following the wto dispute over hormones in beef in exchange for a zero duty tariff quota on high-quality beef derived from cattle not treated with growth-promoting hormones. under the second phase of the mou, the eu increased the quota for high-quality beef to 45,000 tonnes and the us suspended all trade sanctions on eu products following the hormone dispute between august 2012 and august 2013. as the parties were unable to move to phase three of the mou, the mou expired on 1 august 2013. as the current memorandum provides for the maintenance of the obligations of the parties until 1 february 2014, this decision proposes to extend the second phase until 31 july 2015 in order to give the parties more time to move to the third phase.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire is a relatively old one and is of importance to both parties, especially in the context of almost all ivorian tuna production being exported to the european union - some 55 000 million tonnes per year. the agreement is therefore economically justified and in line with the objectives of the european union's fisheries policy. last but not least, it should be noted that this agreement provides numerous jobs for both parties, in a context where they are essential for economic growth in the areas concerned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire (2013-2018). this new agreement is based on the results of an ex-post evaluation of the protocol between the eu and côte d'ivoire on a fisheries partnership agreement covering the period july 2007 to june 2013. the assessment carried out in june 2012 by independent experts and financed by the commission shows that, from the outset, the agreement was economically justified, reasonable, balanced and effective. the eu and côte d'ivoire are privileged partners, especially in the fisheries sector, since almost all ivorian tuna production is exported to the eu. this represents an average of about 55 billion tons per year. the partnership agreement provides for fishing opportunities to be allocated to two categories of vessels, namely 28 freezer tuna traps and 10 french and spanish floating longliners. the european parliament supports this agreement, but will nevertheless remain vigilant about the quality of the aid granted to the ivorian employment sector. we also call on the commission to strengthen controls on the effective use of the funds lost and on illegal fishing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands being an obstacle to their development. in this respect, the proposed import duty reductions, as well as the whole set of specific measures for the outermost regions, will help this area to overcome the structural difficulties it is facing. the extension of the existing autonomous tariff quotas for a further period of 7 years is therefore a natural step, offering economic operators a long-term perspective to reach a level of activity that would allow the stabilisation of the economic and social environment on the islands.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation opening and providing for the administration of autonomous tariff quotas of the union for the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands from 2014 to 2020. the canary islands are among the outermost regions of the european union for which special measures may be provided for, in accordance with article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in order to overcome the economic disadvantages which these regions face as a result of their geographical location. the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands in relation to the sources of supply of fishery products essential for domestic consumption entails costs that represent a significant burden for this sector. the negative effects of this natural handicap can be remedied by temporarily suspending customs duties on imports of the products concerned from third countries. the proposed import duty reductions, in combination with other specific measures for the outermost regions, will help the canary islands to overcome the structural difficulties they are facing. the government of the kingdom of spain has requested the extension of the measures provided for in council regulation (ec) no 645/2008 of 8 july 2008 opening and providing for the administration of autonomous community tariff quotas for imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands which expire on 31 december 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as the first mep to raise the issue of the absence of legislation to mobilise this fund in romania in the european parliament's plenary, i am aware of its usefulness and importance. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the company in question, which is a subsidiary of the company. i therefore support the efforts to mobilise this fund and encourage the other member states to use this important financial resource for those looking for a new job.
in writing. − while i deplore the closure of nokia's factories in the european union and the relocation of its factory activity to asia, i believe it is important that the european parliament approves the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support all workers affected by nokia's redundancies. we are talking about over 4 500 nokia redundant workers, suppliers and subcontractors who have lost their jobs and who can be supported with a view to re-entering the labour market. but i would point out that this is not the first time that the european globalisation adjustment fund has been mobilised in favour of nokia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application egf/2013/001 fi/nokia submitted by finland. the egf has already been mobilised in favour of 1 337 workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of nokia from germany to romania in 2008. unfortunately, five years after this relocation, the egf is mobilised for the fourth time to respond to nokia's redundancies. the 2013 budget will mobilise the amount of eur 9,810,000 for finland. the amount relates to 4 509 redundancies within nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 suppliers and subcontractors, of which 3 719 workers are covered by measures co-financed by the egf during the reference period from 1 august 2012 to 30 november 2012. the finnish authorities state that the main reason for these redundancies is the transfer of jobs from the sector to third countries outside europe. the assembly of mobile phones, previously carried out in salo and cluj, has been relocated to asia (china, south korea, india and vietnam, where a new nokia plant is to be opened). the manufacturing of components and subcontracted production has already been transferred outside europe. following the direction taken with regard to production, both product design and development have been or are to be relocated.
in writing. − i have supported this report and will continue to support member states' efforts to support workers seeking a new job through this tool. the funds allocated will provide financial support to the approximately 1000 redundant workers of first solar manufacturing gmbh, thus facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. the allowances, the training and management of the training, as well as workshops and working groups with people in similar situations will have a positive impact on these people in difficult situations.
in writing. − i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for first solar employees in germany, amounting to eur 2.3 million. the commission notes that the commission did not provide any information on the number of employees in the union industry. the commission has not found any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to compete with the union producers in the union market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in response to the request made by germany. the eu has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. germany submitted application egf/2013/003 de/first solar in april 2013 in order to receive a financial contribution from the egf, following 959 redundancies in first solar manufacturing gmbh, 875 workers having been affected by the measures co-financed by the egf, during the reference period from 15 november 2012 to 15 march 2013. the commission also found that the measures were granted in the form of a loan to the company first solar manufacturing gmbh, which was granted by the land brandenburg. the union's financial assistance to redundant workers should be dynamic and made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. therefore, we welcome the fact that the evaluation process was carried out in a timely manner, within six months from the date of submission of the request.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i am pleased that more and more countries are calling for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which, in my view, is not being used to its full capacity. major changes in the structure of world trade unfortunately sometimes have adverse effects on the labour market within the union; it is therefore very important that this fund facilitates the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by vestas in denmark. last but not least, i believe that we should follow the example of the actions taken by the danish authorities, namely the provision of personalised services to the affected workers, well before the final decision to grant egf support for the proposed coordinated package.
in writing. − welcomes the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the allocation of over eur 6 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for redundant employees of the vestas group in denmark; i welcome the fact that workers who have lost their jobs will benefit from both financial compensation and personalised labour market integration services such as individual counselling and guidance, as well as language courses or other training programmes. however, i would point out that this is the third time that the fund's resources are being mobilised for the vestas group and the fourth time for redundancies in the wind turbine sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in response to the request made by denmark. denmark submitted application egf/2012/011 dk/vestas for a financial contribution from the egf following 611 redundancies in the vestas group between 18 september and 18 december 2012, 611 workers being affected by the measures co-financed by the egf. the divestments in the vestas group, which is active in the wind turbine manufacturing sector, are linked to major changes in the structure of world trade generated by globalisation, which are linked to stagnating demand for wind turbine installations in europe and the development of the market in asia, the penetration of the european market by chinese wind turbine manufacturers offering more competitive prices and the significant reduction of the eu market share in terms of total capacity from 66% in 2006 to 27,5% in 2012. i believe that the eu wind energy market will continue to grow and generate increased demand for european wind turbine manufacturers and associated industries through the ongoing promotion of renewable energy at union level. at the same time, i stress the risk of importing wind turbines produced in asia into the european market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the negotiations between the union and canada should give priority to ensuring equal treatment for all member states. that's why i want to insist on the issue of visas for romanian citizens. this is all the more worrying as canadian citizens are visa-free for travel throughout the european union. i do not want to invoke the application of a reciprocal clause by the union, because that would not be productive and would not lead to a solution of the problem. but the commission has an obligation to insist on negotiating priority over this situation. that is why i hope that the final form of the eu-canada partnership will clearly specify the abolition of visas for absolutely all citizens of the union.
in writing. − i voted for this report because as a member of the eu-canada delegation i believe that maintaining and strengthening the eu-canada relationship has an important role to play in the eu's foreign policy. as a romanian mep i campaigned for the abolition of visas which still apply to some eu citizens, including romanians. all eu citizens have the same rights, and therefore my citizens should also enjoy this aspect, to travel visa-free, including within canada, as do other eu citizens.
in writing. i have always advocated a stronger relationship between canada and the european union. however, i voted against the european parliament's report on the signing of the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement. the continuation of the visa requirement imposed by canada on romanian nationals constitutes unacceptable discriminatory treatment which is contrary to the commitments made in favour of reciprocal visa liberalisation. it called for the suspension of the strategic partnership agreement. in this context, it should be recalled that the european parliament recently adopted an amendment to the eu regulation on visa policy towards third countries, which strengthens the reciprocity mechanism: it will have to be activated when a third country applies or maintains a visa requirement for citizens of one or more member states. the continuation of this discriminatory measure by canada, while canadian nationals have been granted visa-free travel since 2002, seriously calls into question the effectiveness and future of canada-eu relations. the resolution of the visa issue should be a priority before the final signature of the agreement, as it concerns a discriminatory situation for millions of european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution containing the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for an eu-canada strategic partnership agreement. the eu and canada have a long history of extensive political and economic cooperation, dating formally from 1976 when the eu signed a framework agreement with canada, the first with an oecd member country. in view of the ongoing negotiations between the eu and canada for a strategic partnership agreement (spa), the european parliament recommends that all necessary progress be made to conclude the agreement swiftly. it also recommends insisting that eu agreements with third countries should include conditionality clauses and reciprocal political clauses on human rights and democracy, reflecting a joint reaffirmation of the common commitment to respect these values and regardless of the human rights situation in the country concerned. the commission notes that the visa waiver is not a new issue for the eu, but rather a new one, which is not yet fully implemented. we consider it necessary to make the conclusion of this agreement conditional on the abolition of visas for all european citizens, including romanian and bulgarian citizens.
in writing. − i supported the report because it presents a preventive approach and useful measures to restore the non-banking financial sector. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of capital injections in the bank. however, their work is often cross-border and interconnected, posing a significant systemic risk. the commission should prioritise the recovery and resolution of ccps and csds for a more transparent functioning of financial markets. i support the rapporteur's view that these institutions should individually develop recovery plans and identify measures to continue providing critical operations and services. those plans could be assessed by the relevant supervisory authority, which could request changes or make informed recommendations, thus ensuring the financial stability of the sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the recovery and resolution framework for non-bank institutions as effective recovery plans and resolution tools are crucial to improving the stability of the global non-bank financial sector. we believe that there is an urgent need to develop tools for effective near real-time monitoring of the stock and flow of financial risk within and across corporate, sectoral and national boundaries within the union and between the union and other regions of the world. it is important for the commission to ensure that ccps have a default management strategy for all products that are cleared by the ccp as part of a broader recovery plan approved by the supervisory authority, paying particular attention to those products that are mandated for central clearing given that there is a higher likelihood of risk concentration in these cases. we ask the commission to develop tools to measure the intraday risk of ccps, to ensure that the intraday balances held by ccps with commercial banks for account management and payment services do not exceed pre-set limits that could otherwise threaten the functioning of ccps.
in writing. − the achievements of the european space agency are an impetus for the development and acceleration of cooperation in the field of space. in these circumstances, it is desirable to achieve closer cooperation between the eu states which are not members of the agency and this institution, with the objective of developing european policies in the space sector. i also believe that further efforts must be made to encourage, structure and institutionalise cooperation in this area, precisely in order to maintain the agency's competitiveness at global level, but also to avoid duplication of activities and any overlaps. the space sector offers significant potential for economic growth, being one of the factors that can guarantee the increased competitiveness of european companies, alongside the development of the services sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to pay more attention to the space industry, especially in the context of the europe 2020 objectives. we need to think in terms of competitiveness, to anticipate future challenges in this sector, especially in relation to new players in the international market, such as china or india. we also must not lose sight of the fact that this industry has a considerable impact on the lives of our citizens. services like high-speed internet, navigation systems and even television are directly dependent on the space industry. i believe that this sector has a significant potential for growth and innovation, and the annual turnover of around eur 6,5 billion is a case in point.
in writing. - in view of the recent deplorable incidents of spying and use of confidential data, especially those held by member states, by the united states, and bearing in mind that some 60% of the electronic devices on board european satellites are currently of us origin, there is certainly a need to review the model for protecting sensitive data. in addition to the care and attention for sensitive data, the eu's industrial space policy will need to be supported by a common approach and make programmes for research and innovation its focal points. in this context, we welcome the allocation of some eur 3.7 billion for the global monitoring programme for environment and safety, called 'copernicus'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu space policy as it represents a step towards the creation of an internal space market, in a context where there is no legislative harmonisation at member state level and investment and funding are low in this area. they also support the commission's proposal on the importance of ensuring a level playing field in international trade agreements. the report proposes as top priorities of the european space policy the completion of galileo and the continuation of copernicus so that the technologies facilitated by egnos and galileo are made available to users in different fields such as transport. on the other hand, the eu must use the space industry as an opportunity for economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu space industrial policy harnessing the potential for economic growth in the space sector. space-based telecommunications, navigation and earth observation provide the eu with strategically important knowledge. only through a european approach can the space industry be given the opportunity to be competitive. new satellite navigation applications are enhancing safety, efficiency and reliability in the aviation, maritime, road and agricultural, road safety, toll collection, traffic and parking management, fleet management, emergency calls, cargo tracking and monitoring, online booking, ship safety, digital tachographs, animal transport and sustainable land. the completion of galileo and the continuation of copernicus should be given priority, given their emblematic status within the framework of european space policy. the first galileo services should be open to the public in 2014. egnos is the first european gnss operational programme. i regret that the egnos system does not currently cover the whole of the eu and i call for the extension of the system to southern, eastern and south-eastern europe so that it can be used throughout europe. we call on the commission and the member states to create incentives for european industry to develop space components at european level and to reduce dependence on imports from third countries.
in writing. − assessing the potential of cloud computing must first estimate the influence these applications can have on organisational efficiency and labour productivity, both in the public and private sectors. maintaining the high competitiveness of european enterprises cannot take place in the absence of a developed ict sector. i believe that these technologies have the potential to generate growth across the european economy, and have a high capacity to create some of the jobs that european citizens and societies need today. at the same time, the importance of ensuring data security and safety should not be overlooked, especially in the current conditions of the progressive multiplication of threats from cyberspace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. information technology has become a central component of the world we live in, with its future developments both imminent and of particular importance. in this respect, cloud computing has the potential to reduce user costs and to foster the development of a large number of new services, which are constantly being developed. whereas the internet makes information available to anyone, anywhere in the world, cloud computing will make it easier for us to access computing power wherever we are. the early stage of this technology offers the union an important opportunity: to position itself as a leader in its future developments as a large-scale provider of cloud services.
in writing. − the cloud computing sector, in view of the increasing diffusion of technology and the reduction of the digital divide, needs strong support from european programmes focusing on research and innovation, such as, above all, horizon 2020. this is the direction in which we must proceed with certain priorities which are highlighted in the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are many opportunities arising from the rapid growth of the sector, such as services in the areas of health, transport and networked education, which need further impetus at european level in order to create growth and jobs.
in writing. − i welcome the european commission's strategy on cloud computing, especially given its huge potential for job creation and growth in the eu. i believe that in order to maximise this potential, a number of preconditions must be met. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. in order to avoid the gaps and confusion of jurisdiction that might arise from differences between member states, a harmonised legal framework is necessary. reliable standards and specifications are also needed, which meet confidentiality requirements and ensure a high degree of interoperability. secondly, we need an adequate broadband infrastructure at european level. broadband development may be financed, in addition to the connecting europe facility, by other community programmes. last but not least, it is very important that eu citizens have appropriate digital skills and member states need to come up with strategies to do so.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on unlocking the potential of cloud computing in europe given the economic potential of the cloud to increase europe's global competitiveness, and the fact that it can become a powerful tool for economic growth and employment. we call on the commission to take the lead in promoting standards and specifications in support of privacy-friendly, reliable, highly interoperable, secure and energy-efficient cloud services as an integral part of a future union industrial policy. reliability, security and data protection are necessary to enhance consumer confidence and competitiveness. we consider digital skills among all citizens to be of particular importance and urge member states to develop concepts on how to promote the safe use of internet services, including cloud computing services. we stress that the development of cloud services risks, in the absence of or in the case of insufficient availability of broadband infrastructure, to amplify the digital divide between urban and rural areas, which will make it increasingly difficult to achieve territorial cohesion and regional economic growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the work of the body of european regulators for electronic communications has an important role to play in defining the technical and political guidelines for the completion of the internal market. this relatively new body, through the measures taken to strengthen the consistent application of the eu regulatory framework at member state level, must continue its efforts to harmonise the internal market for electronic communications networks and services. but as the smallest eu agency, national authorities will continue to play a key role in the regulatory system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the opinion on the evaluation report on berec and the office. the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) was established to help define the technical and policy guidelines for the completion of the internal market, with a dual objective: to give regulators as much independence as possible and to improve the consistency of their implementation of the regulatory framework at european level. i consider that the completion of the internal market is a continuous process, best facilitated by improving regulation in individual national markets, and the most robust and sustainable way to achieve this (ensuring that regulatory decisions are considered legitimate within national markets) is through the 'bottom-up' approach currently represented by berec. we recommend that the commission and the member states ensure adequate funding for both berec and the national regulatory authorities. they also argue that the necessary cooperation, coordination and informal aspects of governance take time to develop fully. berec should act in the interest of european citizens and therefore mechanisms related to accountability to the european parliament, which is the only directly elected institution to represent the interests of european citizens, should be strengthened.
in writing. − i have voted today in favour of the berec report, because i believe it covers very well all the issues that are either not working or could be working better within the agency. the report acknowledges that berec, like any other agency in times of financial constraint, is faced with limited resources. however, it also gives valuable feedback on what still needs to be done to improve the efficiency and relevance of its activities. i believe that the relationship between berec and the national regulatory authorities should be better defined and the duties and tasks within the agency should be clearly demarcated. moreover, the independence of the office from all interested stakeholders and its members should be respected with consistency. not lastly, i also think that timely debate at the development stage of the work programme with all interested stakeholders should be a priority and better communication should be ensured, so that stakeholders can engage more efficiently and in a more timely way with the agency. because all these issues have been taken on board in what i see as a very balanced report, i have wholeheartedly voted today in favour of this report.
in writing. − i supported this text and welcome the fact that the reform of the common fisheries policy will include greater decentralisation of decisions, at a level closer to those involved. among the objectives mentioned, romania prioritises support for coastal and small-scale fisheries and freshwater aquaculture. sustainable exploitation of resources cannot be achieved without clear measures to reduce the environmental impact of fishing activities. the promotion of the coastal and small fleet supports such measures because of the benefits to the local community and the environment. last but not least, i should like to point out that the commission's proposal to reduce the european quota for cod by 15% will directly affect my country, and in the black sea only romania and bulgaria are subject to these quotas. we need to encourage the other riparian states to get involved.
in writing. − the reform addresses the biggest and most persistent problem of the common fisheries policy, which is overfishing. the council of the european union is obliged to act sustainably in its annual decisions on the volume of catches. overfishing should be stopped by 2015 to the extent possible, in order to allow fish stocks to recover. it is specified that a postponement to a later date (at the latest by 2020) is only allowed if the economic and social sustainability of the fleets concerned is seriously affected. in future, therefore, all stocks must be managed on the basis of the principle of maximum sustainable yield. member states will have to allocate fisheries resources to fishermen on the basis of objective and transparent criteria. these criteria must be of an environmental, social and economic nature. this can benefit those fleet segments that demonstrate that they can create above average jobs and that they affect the environment below average. the european parliament has sought greater transparency not only in the allocation of quotas but also in the data collected by member states on the state of stocks, which must be made available to all interested parties, subject to compliance with data protection provisions.
in writing. − i believe that the fundamental objectives of the fisheries policy are being met.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation on the common fisheries policy (cfp), amending council regulations (ec) no 1954/2003 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulations (ec) no 2371/2002 and (ec) no 639/2004 and council decision 2004/585. the scope of the cfp shall include the conservation of marine biological resources and the management of fisheries targeting such resources. in addition, it shall cover market and financial measures taken in support of its objectives, freshwater biological resources and aquaculture activities, as well as the processing and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products, where such activities take place in the territory of the member states or in union waters, including by fishing vessels flying the flag of third countries and registered in third countries, or by union fishing vessels, or by nationals of member states, without prejudice to the primary responsibility of the flag state, taking into account the provisions of article 117 of the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982.
in writing. − i supported this text because the rules on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products are of particular importance from the point of view of consumer protection. i therefore welcome the fact that food information for them will be at the heart of this regulation. given the increasing variety of fishery products, it is important to allow consumers to make informed choices. they should therefore have access to clear information on the origin and method of production. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that imported products entering the eu market comply with the same marketing requirements and standards that union producers must comply with.
in writing. − i believe that this amendment should take into account the need to regulate the provision of information on gear types, as regards products obtained from wild caught fish species.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting the regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, amending council regulations (ec) no 1184/2006 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 104/2000. the regulation adopted establishes a common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products ('common market organisation') which contains the following elements: trade organisations; marketing standards; consumer information; competition rules; market knowledge. since fish stocks are common resources, their sustainable and efficient exploitation can in certain cases be better achieved by organisations composed of members from different member states and regions. it is necessary to encourage the possibility of setting up producer organisations and associations of producer organisations at national or transnational level, based on biogeographical regions, as appropriate. those organisations should take the form of partnerships aiming at the development of common and binding rules and ensuring a level playing field for all parties involved in fishing. when such organisations are set up, it is necessary to ensure that they remain subject to the competition rules laid down in the adopted regulation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the european union must play a leading role in the responsible management of resources of all kinds. this report is a step forward in our efforts to exploit our fisheries resources sustainably and rationally. we are also talking about alignment with the objectives of the common fisheries policy. addressing the vulnerability of deep-sea stocks with caution, as well as banning certain fishing methods that could destroy the ecosystems in which they operate, are measures that will considerably reduce the impact of fishing on the environment. furthermore, measures to reduce unwanted catches of deep-sea species should be strengthened. finally, i believe that holders of fishing authorisations should be encouraged to actively participate in the assessment of the stocks of species on the ocean floor.
in writing. − the deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic are characterised by two very different practices, on the one hand, traditional coastal fleets using paragates in portugal and, on the other, large nomadic trawlers operating mainly under the french or spanish flag. in total, deep-sea species account for around 1% of the quantities landed in the north-east atlantic. i voted in favour of this report because it fully supports the commission's proposal which has the potential to ensure the sustainability of both commercially exploited and accidentally caught deep-sea species and to prevent significant adverse effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems. the draft report aims to strengthen the commission's proposal in the following key areas, among which i would like to mention: identifying deep-sea species and the most vulnerable species; identifying and protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems; establishing an annual assessment of fleet capacity by member states; the obligation to carry out an impact assessment before issuing or renewing fishing authorisations for deep-sea gears; financial assistance for the transition to more sustainable fishing gear.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters in the north-east atlantic and repealing regulation (ec) no 2347/2002. the objectives of the adopted regulation are: - to ensure the sustainable management and exploitation of deep-sea species, while reducing the impact of deep-sea fishing activities on the marine environment; - prevent significant adverse effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems and ensure the long-term conservation of deep-sea fish stocks; - improve scientific knowledge of deep-sea species and their habitats; - implement technical measures on fisheries management recommended by the north east atlantic fisheries commission (neafc). - to minimise and, where possible, prevent by-catches; - apply prudential and ecosystem-based approaches to fisheries management and ensure that the measures taken by the union for the sustainable management of deep-sea fish stocks are in line with the resolutions adopted by the united nations general assembly, in particular resolutions 61/105 and 64/72.
in writing. - i voted for this report because natural and man-made disasters have multiplied and worsened in recent years, with disproportionate effects on member states but also on developing countries. effective ways of improving europe's ability to deal with unforeseen events can reduce the costs to the union's economy and the obstacles to growth. despite reservations in some member states, solidarity with those who are suffering is more important than bureaucratic obstacles or national reticence. in this context, through another instrument, the solidarity fund, my country is receiving financial assistance to cover the damage caused by the drought in the summer of 2012. we must not overlook the international dimension of this civil protection mechanism which was recently activated for the philippines, which was badly affected by tropical cyclone haiyan.
in writing. − the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters have increased significantly in recent years and climate change is expected to trigger major disasters in the future. civil protection remains the responsibility of the member states and the purpose of european legislation is to support and complement the actions of the member states and to promote cooperation and consistency. it is therefore important to further promote existing guidelines on risk assessment and mapping as well as on host country support, to make clearer reference to future guidelines presented in order to improve the comparability of member states' risk management plans and to harmonise the definition of host country support with that used in the eu guidelines. the union mechanism should promote continued regional cooperation in the field of exchange of knowledge and good practices as well as in training programmes. the eu's funding of assets and the establishment of the european emergency response capability in the form of a voluntary grouping are also important steps towards a better and more reliable european disaster response system.
in writing. − the establishment of a european civil protection mechanism is an idea that i have advocated, and which responds to real needs, namely a rapid, effective, coherent response in cases where this intervention is required. we all agree that, for example, extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and more destructive, and the number of victims is increasing. where these phenomena are of a cross-border nature, common procedures and proper coordination of the intervention teams' efforts are needed. i also called for the establishment of a european civil protection body to which all member states would contribute and which would be equipped with the necessary means for a very rapid first response. that is why i voted in favour of adopting the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a union civil protection mechanism. it would mean a better capacity to manage the risks faced by civil protection mechanisms, in the spirit of solidarity between member states.
in writing. − i believe that the union and the member states should coordinate their respective support programmes in order to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of providing support and policy dialogue, in accordance with the established principles on strengthening operational coordination and for harmonising policies and procedures.
in writing. − natural and man-made disasters are an inevitable reality. climate change is causing a series of natural disasters that cannot be identified with precision. crimes caused by acts of terrorism, nuclear or radiological accidents have left hundreds of thousands of people vulnerable. the european union needs to have a civil protection mechanism in place in such situations to be able to react effectively and avoid a mass spread of panic. each member state has a safeguard mechanism which must be subject to a common standard in order to provide all union citizens with an immediate response in emergency situations. furthermore, we need to coordinate with humanitarian aid experts and exchange good practices on lessons learned in interventions to ensure concrete results. the regional dimension must also be integrated into the civil protection mechanism as many member states in the same region are exposed to similar risks. the commission's responsibility to set up the emergency response centre (erc), which is a central element of the mechanism, should therefore have a functional basis for all member states in the event of a disaster.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on a union civil protection mechanism. the union civil protection mechanism (the 'union mechanism') aims to strengthen cooperation between the union and the member states and to facilitate coordination in the field of civil protection with a view to improving the effectiveness of systems for preventing, preparing for and responding to natural and man-made disasters. the union mechanism shall promote solidarity between member states through practical cooperation and coordination. the protection to be provided by the union mechanism shall cover in the first place persons, but also the environment and tangible property, including cultural heritage, against: - all types of natural and man-made disasters, including the consequences of terrorist acts; - technological, radiological or environmental disasters; - marine pollution and acute health emergencies occurring within or outside the union. in the event of the consequences of terrorist acts or radiological disasters, the union mechanism may cover only preparedness and response actions. the financial envelope for the implementation of the union mechanism for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 368 428 000 in current prices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. irresponsible actions by financial market participants have undermined the confidence of all actors, and in particular of citizens, and measures to regain that confidence are particularly important for economic growth. to this end, we need financial reforms that embody a high degree of responsibility and prudence, with a view to eliminating irresponsible lending and borrowing practices. i believe that this directive will provide a high level of protection for buyers of real estate within the eu and at the same time provide a legal framework that ensures the responsible functioning of the mortgage market.
in writing. − the financial crisis has made it clear that irresponsible behaviour by market participants has serious effects on the stability of the financial system. the loss of credibility of market participants directly affects the european union's sustainable growth strategy, calling into question the union's ability to achieve its proposed 2020 targets. loans in a foreign currency without fully understanding the currency risks involved have been to the detriment of the consumer, creating problems in the internal market for credit agreements. this type of loan was sometimes aggressively promoted, giving the buyer a false illusion that it could "beat the market". given the significant role that mortgages play for households in the union, i believe that we need stricter regulations for creditors and credit intermediaries. consumers who take out a credit agreement for residential property should be made aware of all the benefits and risks to which they are exposed throughout the life of the credit, not just for a short period of time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the directive on credit agreements for residential property. taking out a mortgage loan is one of the most important financial decisions in a person's life, as it involves a financial commitment that can last for many decades. the eu mortgage market is considerable: in 2008, the balance of mortgage loans for housing in the eu27 amounted to almost eur 6 trillion, which is about 50% of eu gdp. many european citizens have lost confidence in the financial sector, loans have become increasingly difficult for borrowers to repay, and the number of defaults and foreclosures has increased. the approved directive provides a common framework for certain aspects of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to contracts covering consumer credit secured by mortgages or otherwise related to residential immovable property. the directive also provides for the obligation to carry out a credit assessment before granting a credit as a basis for the development of underwriting standards in relation to residential immovable property in the member states, as well as for certain prudential and supervisory requirements, including for the establishment and supervision of credit intermediaries, appointed representatives and non-banking institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it was necessary to align the regulations in this area with the regime established after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. for the least developed countries, the union has established a preferential trade regime to promote trade and economic development in those countries. parliament's involvement in the delegated act procedure is particularly important and gives the european legislator a democratic lever to scrutinise the european commission's decisions. last but not least, the adoption of the report will ensure greater coherence of the legislative act proposed by the european commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on imports of rice originating in bangladesh. this regulation is part of the union's common commercial policy, which must respect the objectives of the union's development cooperation policy as set out in article 208 of the treaty, in particular the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development and good governance in developing countries. as such, it should also be in line with the requirements of the world trade organisation (wto), in particular the decision on differential and more favourable treatment, reciprocity and enhanced participation of developing countries (the 'enabling clause') adopted by the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) in 1979, under which wto member states may grant differential and more favourable treatment to developing countries. this regulation recognises the right of small farmers and rural workers to a decent income and to a safe and healthy working environment and considers respect for that right to be fundamental to the achievement of the general objectives of granting trade preferences to developing countries and in particular to the least developed countries.
in writing. − the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) is a key tool for reducing eu industrial emissions in a cost-effective way. since the start of the second marketing phase in 2008, emissions have been reduced by more than 10%. this decrease is largely due to the slowdown in economic growth, which has caused a reduction in economic activities and production. by the end of 2011, a surplus of 955 million emission allowances had been accumulated, and this surplus is expected to increase. because emissions allowances are being supplied in quantities far in excess of demand, the price of carbon has decreased. this decrease in the carbon price has become a factor in reducing incentives for investment in low-carbon technologies and increasing the risk of the eu being stuck in high-carbon infrastructure. the commission should adapt the auction calendar. it is important that the decision to adapt the auction calendar is executed only once in the third phase of the eu ets trading. this short-term measure should be considered as an option ensuring the stability of the eu ets pending the adoption of the necessary long-term structural measures.
in writing. − the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) established by directive 2003/87/ec has created the world's first major carbon market and sets a price for carbon at eu level. the decision amending directive 2003/87/ec provides that where an assessment of individual industrial sectors indicates that no significant impact on sectors or subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage is foreseen, the commission may, in exceptional circumstances, adapt the calendar for the period referred to in article 13 (1) from 1 january 2013 in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market. the commission shall apply a single adjustment of this type to a maximum of 900 million allowances. i am against arbitrary and unpredictable interventions in the carbon market because i believe that they can negatively affect both the carbon market and the industry. i also believe that artificially raising the price of carbon will cause electricity prices to rise, carbon dioxide emissions to shift, and unemployment to rise. that is why i did not support the legislative resolution on the proposal for a decision amending directive 2003/87/ec by clarifying the provisions on the greenhouse gas emission allowance auction timetable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which i consider to be impactful in improving resource efficiency. i am of the opinion that the council regulation does not take into account the commission communication on 'a resource efficient europe', namely the transformation of the eu economy into a 'circular economy', based on a recycling society, with the aim of reducing waste generation and using waste as a resource. the commission has also concluded that the proposed criteria for the elimination of waste paper are not sufficient to ensure the recycling of paper. recycling brings benefits both economically and socially, and also for improving the quality of life through a clean environment.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament resolution opposing the adoption of the council regulation on the definition of the criteria for determining whether recovered paper is no longer waste pursuant to article 6 (1) of the waste directive 2008/98/ec. the commission has not correctly assessed the impact of the proposed regulation on paper recycling, the waste paper value chain, waste paper shipments and the overall environmental effects of the draft regulation. i consider that stimulating the growth of global trade in this paper which is claimed to 'not fall within the waste category' by circumventing environmental and health protection guarantees would not only have an additional negative impact on the environment during transport, but could also lead to a decrease in the recycling rate of paper in europe due to the reduced availability of waste paper, so that the paper producer may have to substitute the product at least partially by increasing the production of virgin fibres in europe, which implies higher energy consumption and higher co2 emissions, which would again contravene the criterion of avoiding harmful effects on the global environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i would like to point out that although we have a roma strategy, its implementation at member state level is lacking. in this context, roma women face several forms of discrimination. moreover, now that the election campaign is in full swing, roma have become real targets for the authorities in some countries. the principle of free movement is systematically violated. those who use roma as a campaign theme should do so in a constructive way. they should show the electorate what they have done to integrate this community and not seek illegal solutions to their continued expulsion or discrimination.
in writing. − the issue of roma integration has been a constant focus of the european parliament and the european institutions, as well as national governments. we must note both the recent efforts and achievements, the awareness of the seriousness of the roma ethnic problems, and the obstacles that still exist in the way of implementing some of the policies designed to solve them. there are obstacles of a different nature, and i think we still have to take that particularity into account. i voted in favour of the resolution on gender discrimination in the case of the roma ethnic group because it addresses one of the most serious problems faced by members of this ethnic group. discrimination against roma women is a sad and hard-to-remove reality. there needs to be a change in culture both within the ethnic group and in the way institutions address this issue. i have noted with satisfaction some of the proposals in the resolution, which directly concern roma women, and which, if applied consistently and in good faith, can change their lives for the better. i also welcome the proposals for measures to actively combat poverty among roma women, social diseases, illiteracy and to increase education.
in writing. − extreme poverty, gender inequality and internal discrimination expose roma women to a higher risk of trafficking, prostitution, domestic violence and exploitation, while also creating barriers to access to protection. i believe that the principles of raising awareness of gender issues and the vulnerability of roma women need to be addressed and put into practice by european and national decision-makers.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the gender aspects of the european framework for national roma integration strategies. i think this is a very important topic, because it allows one of the many aspects of the roma integration issue to be approached through the perspective of those who perhaps suffer most from the precarious socioeconomic situation in which too many roma europeans currently live. empowering roma women is one of the aspects that should be given special attention in eu strategies, so that they can take control of their lives, becoming visible agents of change in their communities and having their voices heard to influence policies and programmes that affect them. strengthening the socio-economic resilience of roma women, i.e. their ability to adapt to the rapidly changing economic environment, by saving and preventing the decline of assets, is a crucial point that, if properly implemented on the ground in conjunction with local authorities, could have concrete positive effects.
in writing. − free movement and mobility within the eu has brought the issue of the roma community, one of the largest ethnic groups, numbering some 12 million people, to the attention of many member states. roma accuse themselves of often being victims of discrimination and social exclusion, living in poverty, with limited access to social and health services, and decent housing. the first phenomenon, and it's particularly dangerous, is generalization. when we talk about roma, we often fail to mention that a good number of them are perfectly integrated and lead normal and respectable lives in society. the second aspect is their identification as criminals, also with a degree of generalization. and here we have a distortion of the truth, by omission or lack of clarification. it is not specified what percentage of the entire roma community falls under the heading 'crimes', nor the nature of the crimes. it should be noted that roma are not the big criminals anywhere in the eu, but perhaps small criminals, but these deviations from the law are heavily publicized. improving living conditions and combating discrimination against roma is a collective responsibility at european level. the mere transfer of responsibilities from one member state to another only prolongs the integration of this ethnic group.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on gender issues in the context of national roma integration strategies. the risk of poverty for roma women exceeds that of roma men and roma families with four or more children are at a higher risk of poverty in the eu. roma integration is a european issue, which must be addressed at european level and not only through national roma integration strategies. we call on the commission and the member states to create a specific guidance and school support system for roma youth, through public education and social services, from pre-school to university, with particular attention to gender issues. we call on member states to develop specific programmes for roma girls and young women to continue primary, secondary or higher education, and to establish special actions for adolescent mothers and early school leavers and to support their continued education by subsidising their entry into the labour market and providing on-the-job training. we call on member states to combat territorial segregation, forced evictions and homelessness faced by roma men and women and to establish effective and transparent housing policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because south sudan is one of the newest countries on the world map, and therefore needs to be supported in strengthening administrative capacity. the development of an effective judicial system to combat corruption and organised crime is a priority for south sudan. the union has provided financial support to the country, providing eur 110 million in 2012 alone. but this money must be conditional on the implementation of democratic reforms. that's why i can't agree with the human rights violations that are taking place there. whether it's the intimidation of human rights activists or attacks on journalists, any such abuse must be punished. and if they worsen, union financial support should be suspended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the international community's efforts to develop and 'state-build' south sudan. un security council resolution 1996 (2011) welcomed the creation of the republic of south sudan on 9 july 2011 and the united nations general assembly voted on 14 july 2011 to accept south sudan as a member state. the newly created state, south sudan, is one of the poorest countries in the world, with 50 percent of the population living below the poverty line. children are the first victims of insecurity and conflict in south sudan, children and women are subjected to sexual abuse and children are recruited by armed groups. the international community and international humanitarian organisations have been very responsive to the need to alleviate the suffering of the people of the region, although in some regions they are denied access by rebel groups and the sudanese government, and the eu has provided and continues to provide substantial levels of humanitarian aid, including eur 110 million in 2012 alone. we call for effective monitoring of human rights, including all types of sexual and gender-based violence or violations of rights and abuses against children, and call on all parties to the conflict to end impunity for perpetrators.
mr president, i supported the cars 2020 own-initiative report because i strongly believe in the importance of a competitive car manufacturing industry in europe with a strong presence on the global market. this report aims to trigger in-depth analysis of the necessary policy coordination mechanisms that the commission has to put in place in order to reverse the current negative trend. the market and consumers need regulation that is coordinated throughout the various sectors impacting on the industry, such as energy, climate and professional training. therefore, i fully support the principle of smart regulation which will provide a higher degree of opportunity, applicability and effectiveness to european policy decisions. legislation should be designed to provide a stable, sound and predictable basis, while removing any competitive imbalances in this very important sector. i welcome this report and encourage the commission to follow its recommendations.
in writing. - i voted for this report because, in the industrial production chain, the automotive industry is a key element and a generator of growth and employment. in europe, it is still in a deep crisis and manufacturers are having difficulty adapting to the sharp decline in the market. so we have overcapacity and a price war. the romanian car market was one of the most affected by this crisis, but is showing signs of recovery. in the first nine months of this year, 212 000 dacia vehicles were registered in europe, an increase of 21.5% compared with the same period last year. dacia produces a car every 55 seconds, with the pitesti plant producing a record 343 000 vehicles in 2013.
in writing. − in an increasingly globalised world, europe must promote new european industrial policies, of which a sustainable automotive industry is an important component. it can and must play a central role in the european economy. this requires member states to implement appropriate structural reforms. coordination of these reforms will lead to increased competitiveness, for example by supporting research and innovation, skills development, retraining, reducing indirect costs, improving labour flexibility through social dialogue, and reducing red tape and payment delays.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the cars 2020 resolution: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable motor industry in europe because it supports the commission's action plan to put the automotive industry at the heart of economic growth. the report highlights important aspects of the automotive industry such as innovation, technology and human resource optimisation, encouraging investment in the sector, while also analysing the repercussions in terms of production and demand. the resolution also calls on the member states to stimulate investment, and stresses that in the context of the economic and financial crisis, a robust internal market covering external markets is needed to cope with competition inside and outside the european union.
in writing. − europe is the world's largest producer of motor vehicles. the european automotive industry accounts for over 12 million direct and indirect specialised jobs. however, the european car industry is going through a difficult period, with sales of new cars in the eu having fallen by 40% over the last six years. at the same time, the demand for cars in emerging markets is continuously on the rise. the low production costs and the need to adapt to the demands of these economies contribute to the increase in the number of relocations with disastrous effects for the union, both economically and socially. i support the commission's initiative to support the competitiveness and sustainability of the motor vehicle sector because i am convinced of the need for a joint action plan to relaunch the european automotive industry. the achievement of the proposed objectives must take into account aspects such as: innovation capacity, employment, the specialisation of workers or the guidelines on european mobility. in the last ten years, an important production chain for the automotive industry has developed in western romania, which supplies components for most european car brands. supporting the production clusters is the main condition for achieving the ambitious targets of cars 2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on cars 2020: towards a strong, competitive and sustainable motor industry in europe. i welcome the commission's cars 2020 initiative which aims to increase the role of the automotive industry in the european economy. in developing future policies for the sector, the commission should take into account the entire motor vehicle sector, in particular subcontractors and distribution and after-sales service undertakings. i believe it is essential to maintain and strengthen coherent and dynamic research, manufacturing, production, value and innovation chains in the eu geared towards the production of sustainable cars. i stress the importance of maintaining and strengthening the manufacturing base in europe both for ensuring a decent living for european citizens and for strengthening european industry in order to recover and develop economically. we call for coordination at eu level to step up the fight against the import of counterfeit car parts and stress the importance of respecting the principle of technological neutrality in the choice of standards to protect the investments of first-time market entrants and thus encourage innovation in the car manufacturing sector. we also call on the commission to develop cross-cutting roadmaps covering the development of the energy sector, the transport sector and the ict sector.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleagues who voted for the alternative resolution of the popular and conservative parliamentary groups, so that it was adopted by only 3 votes more than the original resolution supported by the socialists, liberals, greens and communists. as a result, we will not be able to impose homosexual education in schools, as the socialist report wanted (edite estrella, portugal). abortion will remain, as it has been until now, a matter for each eu member state. i quote from the original resolution, which was rejected: 51. stresses that sexuality education must include non-discriminatory information and convey a positive view of lgbti people in order to effectively promote and protect the rights of lgbti young people.
in writing. − i support the estrela report, which stresses the need for member states to ensure quality sexual and reproductive health services. that is why i did not support amendments nos 1 and 2, which contained alternative resolutions tabled by the efd group and the ppe and ecr groups respectively. the estrela report recommends that quality abortion services become legal, safe and accessible to all within the public health systems of the member states and that clandestine abortions, which endanger women's health, be avoided. in romania, one of the first laws passed after december 1989 was on the legalization of abortions. by then, many women were resorting to abortions in conditions that often endangered the health and even the life of the mothers or resulted in the mutilation of the fetus. the estrela report stresses that member states should implement policies and measures to prevent abortion for social or economic reasons and to provide support to mothers and couples in difficulty. the estrela report calls on member states to guarantee universal access to information, education and services in the field of reproductive health, including on methods of family planning and counselling, the attendance at birth by specialised staff and the right of access to emergency gynaecological and obstetrical care.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because volunteering strengthens civic skills and provides an important experience that can be used in professional life. i also want to stress the importance of promoting volunteering activities, especially among pupils, students and other categories of young people. volunteering can contribute to the economic development of local communities, and the benefits can be felt indirectly across the national economy. i too support the strengthening of the community framework for volunteering. the exchange of information and good practices can thus achieve a higher level of convergence between member states, in particular as regards the participation of european citizens in volunteering activities.
in writing. − the situation of volunteering in the european union is marked by an average involvement rate of 30% according to the eurobarometer of november 2010, with 13 countries above this average, including the netherlands, denmark and sweden, where involvement exceeds 50% of the population. the profile of volunteers at european level indicates a higher degree of activism of citizens with a high socio-economic level and around 20 years of schooling, people active in the labour market and who show a strong interest in public life. the value of volunteering is identified in two major dimensions: the individual development of the people involved in volunteering activities and the development of communities and society as a whole. the contribution of volunteering to individual development is reflected in the acquisition of knowledge, skills and abilities transferable to the labour market, in the potential of volunteering as a lifelong learning opportunity, in the cultivation of social skills such as trust, tolerance, self-esteem, respect for diversity. the contribution of volunteering to community development is reflected in solving local problems by complementing the financial contribution with the work of volunteers, facilitating social cohesion by bringing people together for a common purpose, facilitating social integration and combating the risk of social exclusion of vulnerable social groups.
in writing. − 2011 was the european year of volunteering, to celebrate and promote the commitment of volunteers and volunteer organisations and to help address the challenges facing the field, such as the shrinking number of participants and their tendency to abandon long-term commitments in favour of specific short-term projects. volunteering is increasingly becoming an opportunity to learn and acquire qualifications and skills 'on the job'. a european skills passport has been introduced, which provides an overview of volunteers' skills, allowing them to be recognised for both professional and educational purposes. member states and the commission should establish a single point of contact in the form of a service responsible for volunteering policy. the european year of volunteering has had several positive results and proves how important it is to continue in the same direction to ensure that volunteering does not just remain the focus of a single year-long campaign in a sector of strategic importance to the eu, but becomes a key element of eu policies on social cohesion and culture.
in writing. − i believe that volunteering has an immediate impact on society, as it promotes solidarity between generations and supports active ageing and civic participation throughout life, thus contributing to the goal of social inclusion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on volunteering and voluntary activity in europe by mr scurria, rapporteur for the european parliament. 2011 was the european year of volunteering. a significant year, which saw a series of initiatives across europe highlighting the importance of volunteering. volunteering, in addition to its invaluable moral and solidarity components, is increasingly proving to be an educational and professional gymnasium, useful for acquiring experimental skills in the labour market. we therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal to provide for a single point of contact, as a permanent service responsible for volunteering policy and coordination between the services and the various institutions.
in writing. − volunteering represents european values such as solidarity and non-discrimination, playing an important role in achieving the goal of social inclusion, part of the europe 2020 strategy. with the financial crisis, there has been a significant reduction in volunteering activities, which are an important means of acquiring skills needed in the labour market. as the union is facing increasing problems of youth unemployment, volunteering plays an important role in addressing this problem. i therefore consider it necessary for the union to take measures to support volunteering activities. the european year of volunteering 2011 was an important step in this direction, but we need measures that span several years. volunteering must become the centrepiece of eu policies on social and cultural cohesion.
in writing. - i voted for this report. volunteering should be seen as an opportunity to learn and to acquire professional and interpersonal skills. in 2011, the european year of volunteering, over eur 14 billion was invested in events and projects to promote volunteering activities. over 1,600 organizations participated and over 2 million volunteer hours were logged. but things don't have to stop there. unfortunately, there are major discrepancies between member states in legislation on volunteer rights and the way volunteering is organised. there are more and more people who want to volunteer in other member states, but they face legislative barriers. i therefore ask the commission to propose a common european approach to volunteering practices, which will be rapidly transposed into national legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on volunteering and volunteering activities in europe. i voted for paragraph 17 which underlines that volunteering, increasingly widespread among both young and old, promotes intercultural learning as well as a sense of european identity and solidarity between generations, and supports active ageing and civic participation throughout life. i also voted for paragraph 32 where we call on member states to implement the provisions of directive 2004/114/ec on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, pupil exchange, unpaid vocational training or voluntary service and to simplify or even eliminate visa procedures for persons wishing to engage in voluntary activities, in particular in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. we stress that unfortunately, bureaucratic barriers at national level continue to limit opportunities to engage in volunteering activities, which are not yet legally recognised to a sufficient extent in some member states. given the existence of different cultural traditions and practices, there are major discrepancies between member states as regards the legislation applying to volunteering, the rights of volunteers and the way in which these activities are organised.
mr president, unfortunately the vilnius summit was a failure. in its first ever geostrategic confrontation with russia, the eu was defeated. the credibility of the eastern partnership has crumbled and the developments which followed prove that our approach was wrong. from now on, the eu must understand that its enlargement and association with its neighbours are primarily about its own security, not about their transformation; that enlargement and association are a geostrategic exercise; that values cannot flourish before we win the geostrategic contest; that enlargement and association are a process of synthesis between western and eastern european cultures, traditions and security sensitivities; that the eu must transform itself while asking others to transform; that the eu is not the only alternative as at least some countries have other alternatives; and that the eastern european states striving to join the eu must not only reform their internal systems, but pay the price for decoupling from the old soviet imperial structures. therefore, the philosophy of our eastern policy must be changed. the negotiations with ukraine, but also with azerbaijan and others, should restart immediately, so that the association agreement with ukraine can be signed during the next eu-ukraine summit. finally, financial means must be put in place to facilitate the decoupling of ukraine and other neighbouring states from their old geopolitical and geo-economic ties. if we want to change this unfortunate trend, we must learn the lessons of the vilnius summit and not fool ourselves with flattering conclusions.
mr. president, after vilnius, the european union told ukraine that our door remains open. i think we should clarify: for yanukovych the door is closed. we must not persist in the error of imagining that the president of ukraine is anything but a legacy of the cold war. that's how i understand the ukrainians' presence in the street. they want an alternative to yanukovych, not a new union negotiation with him. there's one more thing. i wonder if we can still consider russia our strategic partner. it would mean accepting that a strategic partner is putting pressure and threatening our friends in the eastern neighborhood. finally, i ask the commission for its support in order to ensure that moldova completes the signing of the association agreement before the end of the current mandate of the commission and parliament.
blue-card question. – mr posselt, why are some members of this chamber surprised that russia reacted as it did during the vilnius summit? did europe not understand that security equals energy? finally, why should we be surprised when we have abandoned nabucco and favoured south stream? let us be honest: some member states themselves have responsibility for the failure of vilnius. do you agree with that? (applause)
mr president, the vilnius summit can be seen as a glass either half full or half empty. geopolitically ukraineʼs last minute volte-face leaves the glass half empty. if in the twenties ukraineʼs joining the ussr brought russia into the heart of europe, her decision of today might keep it there. some would argue that the vilnius summit was more than simple geopolitics. the trouble is that apparently russia does see it exclusively that way. the ukrainians themselves are now saying that we did not do enough to help them resist the huge pressure from russia. it is true that the eu is weakened by the crisis but it takes two to tango, not one. naturally all has not yet been settled in vilnius but lessons should be learned by all parties and, as a romanian considering that the common future of romania and moldova resides exclusively in eu membership and not in an illusionary reunification, i salute the result in vilnius for moldova, and for that matter for georgia too.
in writing. in the context of discussing the conclusions of the vilnius eastern partnership meeting, i think it should be stated that the enlargement of the european union is a logical and necessary process for the future of the european project. i cannot agree with those who see enlargement as a threat to the cohesion of the union as a whole. the price of stopping enlargement would be much higher than the costs of enlargement of the union, both in economic and social terms and in terms of security. the eu has the resources to support enlargement, to fight poverty and to reduce the development gap between the different european countries. the rich nations of europe have no reason to feel threatened by the potential flows of economic migrants from the candidate countries. it is a fact that the first to leave are the professional elites in these countries, who are filling the demand for labour in sensitive areas in the rich countries. it is in the interests of the old eu states to invest in the new member countries because as employment in these countries increases, the flow of migrants will decrease. we need a coherent plan and the political will to do that.
, in writing. other the outcome of the vilnius summit on ukraine - while undoubtedly a momentary setback for the eu's eastern partnership programme - should not stop the country's rapprochement with europe. this is clear to the ukrainian citizens who are currently demonstrating in the streets of kiev, and they will do everything to change the country's leadership's position. this is also europe's job: we must remain open and flexible, present a clear european perspective for ukraine and not forget that the final decision is in the hands of the country's citizens. neither brussels nor moscow can make such an important decision for them, they have to have the final say. i am therefore optimistic, as the events of the past few days in ukraine have shown that the commitment to democracy, the confidence in the european future of the country is very strong among ukrainians, and this clearly indicates the path that the country will take in the coming years.
in writing. at the third eastern partnership high-level meeting in vilnius, lithuania, the parties reviewed progress in concluding new association agreements between the eu and certain partner countries. the countries that are part of the eastern partnership are armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. the association agreements with georgia and moldova were initialled at the meeting, and will help to create deeper political and economic relations between the eu and these two countries. the agreements will include complex and comprehensive free trade areas, a free trade area covering both goods and services (comprehensive free trade area) and involving a high degree of legislative convergence (deep free trade area). i particularly welcome the initialling of the association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova, romania's neighbour. the eu is thus extending its sphere of influence to the east, and moldovan citizens will soon be able to enjoy the benefits of belonging to the european family. the republic of moldova is thus taking a historic step for its citizens. i believe that in the future romania will be able to support the republic of moldova in the process of integration into the european union, both in negotiations and in the transposition of european legislation into national legislation.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am delighted to be able to participate in this afternoon’s debate. this discussion takes place exactly two years after the commission tabled its proposals for the package of seven external financial instruments. today is particularly significant in that it paves the way for a vote in parliament and for the subsequent entry into force of these financing instruments. it is important that the external financial instruments package for the period 2014-2020 is approved in good time so as to be operational from the beginning of next year. the union’s external activity needs a solid and clear financial framework that offers an effective basis for programming and implementation for the commission/eeas activities. at the same time, the instruments must be flexible enough to adapt swiftly to developments and changing political and economic circumstances. the proposed package allows for an efficient use of available resources and the most effective impact on the eu’s external action. we have sought maximum coherence and complementarity between the different instruments, as well as the creation of synergies between the external financial instruments and other eu policies. as a result of our negotiations we will have a simplified regulatory environment, and will have provided for easier access to union assistance by partner countries and regions, civil society organisations, smes as well as other stakeholders. the lithuanian presidency has taken forward this work, based on the excellent progress made by earlier presidencies. our aim has always been to bring the whole package to a mutually satisfactory conclusion by the end of this year. the negotiations have been lengthy and not always easy. we have to devote much time to discussions on the overall structure of the instruments, and in particular the issue of delegated acts and some other horizontal issues such as the possibility of reviewing the instruments at mid-term. at the same time, very significant efforts have been made on each individual instrument in order to reach an outcome which is acceptable to all our institutions. i am therefore particularly pleased to confirm that the permanent representatives committee last week endorsed the entire external financial instruments package, and i look forward to a positive vote here in the european parliament. of course this outcome would not have been possible without considerable flexibility from both sides. i am therefore grateful to parliament for demonstrating such a constructive attitude, even when the positions of our two institutions looked far apart. i would particularly like to pay tribute to the work of the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, mr elmar brok, and the chair of the committee on development, ms eva joly. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the specific instruments – mr berman (dci); mr bütikofer (ifsp); mr kukan (eni); alexander graf lambsdorff (eidhr); mr antonio lopez-isturiz white (pi) and mr libor rouček (ipa). their commitment has been key to our reaching a successful outcome and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the time and expertise which they have brought to the dossier. last but not least, i would like to thank the commission and eeas for their contribution and for their many positive suggestions which were key to helping us reach such a balanced outcome. in adopting the external financial instruments package, the european union will be equipping itself with a comprehensive set of instruments covering a whole range of policies related to its external action. the package will meet immediate, urgent and unforeseen needs as well as more strategic, long-term imperatives, enhancing partner countries’ ownership of their development processes and ensuring the sustainability of eu external aid.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like first to thank this house and in particular the rapporteurs, honourable members brok, berman, bütikofer, graf lambsdorff, lochbihler, kukan, lópez-istúriz white and rouček, as well as those who preceded them, for their incisive and constructive contributions to the negotiations. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for a very comprehensive summary of the essence of external financial instruments and i would like to thank the lithuanian presidency for the leadership that allowed us to have this discussion today. we have been working in a new institutional environment, yet our keen sense of responsibility, as a global player, for the people in our partner countries who need our help and to the european citizens we represent, along with a genuine desire to negotiate and compromise, have combined to produce a result we can all welcome. it is a result that has further cemented the role of this house as pivotal to the european union’s activities. and it is a result that will enable the european union to continue pursuing the external action aims set out in the lisbon treaty in a world that has changed dramatically of late. central to the package on which we have agreed are our ongoing efforts on poverty eradication, thanks to the development cooperation instrument (dci), and on implementing the principles of our development agenda, with our partner countries. over the last ten years, the european union and its member states have committed around eur 45 billion in development aid every year – more than half of all global assistance. our support has contributed to the enrolment of nearly 14 million boys and girls at school, to the vaccination of around 18 million children and to access to water for more than 70 million people around the world. our support has made a difference and has supported the lives of millions of people. in our original proposal, the dci share was more important and was calculated to play a role in the eu’s collective commitment of devoting 0.7% of gni to development cooperation by 2015. it is now in the remit of our member states to fill the gap that the reduction in the eu budget has created. however, i remain confident that the development cooperation instrument will be crucial in translating our differentiation principle into effective, targeted aid for those countries, or those people, which need it most, while always remembering our international commitments on environment and climate change. our 2014-2020 budget will help achieve the mdgs and underpin the post-2015 development agenda. meanwhile, the partnership instrument will enable us to defend key eu interests and pursue relationships with industrialised countries, addressing major global challenges. the democracy and human rights instrument will support partners’ efforts in this fundamental area. we will be able to provide effective support for peace and stability across the world. and thanks to the common implementing rules, delivery on our policies will be simpler and more coherent across all the external action instruments. this result has given us a solid foundation on which to build, notably in the strategic dialogue we will be undertaking in due course and through which you will help shape programming early on. the package we have agreement on is a good one: good for the european union and its citizens; good for our partner countries and their citizens. we now have the policy principles, aims and instruments we need for external action and, within it, for development cooperation that is fully adapted to our fast-changing world. development cooperation that is more than capable of enabling us to win the fight against poverty – first in our on-going pursuit of the mdgs and then in the global post-2015 efforts to deliver poverty eradication and sustainable development with a view to achieving a decent life for all people. we should be proud of what we have achieved together.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the quality of the report. todayʼs very important discussion to be followed later by a vote on the package of the new external action instruments sends an important signal to the countries concerned that the european union remains committed to supporting them. let me start with two remarks about the new instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii). firstly, the final compromise confirms that parliament, the member states and the commission have a common vision for ongoing support for our closest neighbours. secondly, there is consensus that we should support political reforms as well as economic, social and territorial development. the overall funding, which is roughly equal to the current level, will allow us to continue the successful work started under ipa i in promoting important reforms in the enlargement countries and using the transformative power of our enlargement policy. this transformation is important for both the enlargement countries and the european union since it increases security, stability and prosperity. ipa ii will concentrate assistance in a limited number of policy areas and sectors which will help beneficiary countries strengthen their democratic functions, economic governance and social development. we seek to ensure an even closer link between the enlargement strategy and the priorities for assistance. incentives will be available to countries that advance on their reform paths. in the event of underperformance, funds will be reallocated. turning to the european neighbourhood instrument (eni), i am reassured that it will sustain our policy ambitions towards the eastern and southern partners. the key elements of the neighbourhood policy – differentiation and the incentive-based approach – are now clearly outlined in the eni. under the new approach we will increase resources to those partners that are showing clear progress on reforms towards deep and sustainable democracy and respect for human rights, and i thank parliament for its continued commitment to this element. let me mention some other innovative elements in the new instrument: a more streamlined programming process, amended provision for cross-border cooperation programmes, and closer links with the european union internal instruments and policies. we will continue supporting partner countries by promoting respect for human rights and the rule of law, sustainable and inclusive growth, progressive integration in the european unionʼs internal markets, mobility and people-to-people contacts, and regional integration. given the difficult overall mff context, we have to accept financial resources for the eni that are comparable to those of the past seven years, and not higher. to make the most of these resources we will differentiate between partners and we will strictly implement the incentive-based approach. the majority of funds should go to partners with high ambitions for cooperation with the european union, that are committed to reform and with whom we share a value base.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on development. − madam president, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, antonio lópez-istúriz, on his report on the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries, as well as on the efforts made to ensure that this new financial instrument will be relevant to our cooperation with countries of strategic interest to the union. the new instrument responds to a real need and will contribute to the implementation of the international dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. it will enable the union to pursue its strategic objectives beyond development cooperation by engaging with key international actors to effectively promote its interests and respond to global challenges. in particular, i welcome the fact that the funds allocated under this instrument will be spent on the basis of clearly identified thematic priorities, as well as the strong anchoring of the proposal for a regulation in the fundamental values of the union. i believe that these elements will have a positive impact on the union's external action.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on culture and education. − the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is a key element in establishing an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness between the eu and its partners. cultural cooperation has a fundamental role in the assimilation of democratic processes in partner countries. i therefore consider it particularly important to integrate education, culture and respect for and promotion of cultural diversity into the objectives of the european neighbourhood instrument. partners with visible progress should be given additional support. at the same time, it is particularly important to maintain the funds for cooperation in the field of education, even if political links between the eu and some partner countries are not functioning well. i am convinced that partnership must play a special role through cultural and educational exchanges. cultural diplomacy can help change mindsets in countries where the democratic process needs to be perfected. the contact that young people from these countries have with young people from eu member states can lead to important changes in their countries of origin. i congratulate the rapporteurs on the quality of the reports presented in this very important package we are discussing today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the imperatives of todayʼs world, the massive change in the power hierarchy, accelerated by the current crisis, compel the eu to pay more attention not just to its internal problems but also to the efficiency of its external action as well. the major step of bringing all the instruments together had inevitably to be followed by steps to ensure coherence in using them. in turn, such coherence means primarily efficacy translated through flexibility in both action and financing, as well as rapidity of response coupled with reaching the right target. equally we have to align everything with our resources, which are increasingly restrained due to the financial pressure generated by the current crisis. that in turn requires a high degree of transparency and control through parliament of and over the use of money through those instruments. a point worth mentioning is the continuous insistence on guiding the unionʼs international action by the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it should be stressed that the eu is doing so fully aware that it is no longer the only source of money but that respect for these principles outdoes the easy influence obtained through its absence.
madam president, as we are celebrating today the international human rights day, i want to share my satisfaction regarding the outcomes of the negotiations on the new european instrument for democracy and human rights with a budget of over eur 1.3 billion for the next seven years. the new european instrument for democracy and human rights is independent of governments’ consent and it is flexible. under the new regulation, the new european instrument for democracy and human rights will continue to provide financial support to civil society, human rights institutions and also to election observation missions. in the particular case of election observation missions, i welcome the fact that 25% of its budget will be devoted to eu election observation missions, as fair elections are vital to any democratic regime and a pre-condition for a peaceful transition when we speak about transitions. i also welcome the increased powers of scrutiny granted to parliament on the management of these funds.
it is very welcome that the report calls on the union to demand active protection of the rights of persons belonging to national minorities in the enlargement process, in terms of education, health care, social and other public services. it also stresses that the candidate countries should take steps to ensure full and effective equality for persons belonging to national minorities in all areas of social, economic, political and cultural life. these wishes are certainly welcome, but i regret to say that the eu no longer requires these measures in respect of the member states. this suggests to the candidate countries that they should only pay attention to these issues while they are joining, and that they may later withdraw the rules favourable to national minorities. unfortunately, we've seen this before, so there's reason to be concerned. the solution would be to incorporate the copenhagen criteria into union legislation, which the commission should consider initiating.
in writing. a priority of the europe 2020 strategy is to invest in skills development, poverty reduction, modernisation of training and social protection systems to ensure inclusive growth. on the other hand, creating new jobs across the union and developing robust policies to support european citizens to anticipate and manage change will also help to combat the effects of globalisation. the eu's solution is the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which aims to demonstrate the union's solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation. i welcome the proposal to increase the co-financing rate to 65% for certain member states, given that the 50% level has proved to be an obstacle to a greater and more appropriate use of the fund. in addition, it is important to improve cooperation between the eu and the member states in order to shorten the timeframe for intervention in order to obtain a faster response to planned or announced redundancies and to apply measures as soon as applications for access to the fund are submitted.
in writing. since 2007, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been demonstrating its solidarity with european workers affected by redundancies, contributing to sustainable and economic growth and sustainable employment. i welcome the success of the mobilisation of the egf for the 1,416 workers made redundant by nokia in romania following the closure of the factory in cluj county. as a result of the implementation of the egf-funded project 'job to smartjob transition centre', of the 1,416 redundancies, 1,176 (83%) were reintegrated into the labour market. given the high number of recent redundancies caused by the economic and financial crisis, the extension of the scope of the egf is an important tool to support the retraining of workers in the various industrial sectors affected by the crisis. at the same time, the application of the egf in regions with high rates of youth unemployment, to young people who are not in employment and who are not in education or training, is a solidarity commitment to ensure the sustainable development of the regions.
in writing. this financial instrument has proved to be the most effective and rapid means by which the european union has responded to specific funding requirements of some member states, where some companies have been forced to lay off large numbers of workers as a result of the impact of globalisation and the financial crisis. romania has benefited from financial aid from this fund following nokia's decision to cease its activities at its plant in cluj county. the money was used to re-train the workers who were laid off. the project was successful, most of the workers found new jobs. that's why i'm going to support this report.
member of the commission. − mr president, the domestic workers convention of the international labour organization, which recently entered into force, comes at an opportune time, both to improve working conditions for workers amongst the most vulnerable and to contribute to an inclusive economy. with decent conditions, domestic work is able to provide job opportunities and potentially better life conditions for women, low-skilled and migrant workers. on the side of the users, it helps provide quality care, personal and household services and a better balance between family life and work. yet most domestic workers too often remain in the informal sphere and are excluded from labour rights, social security and sometimes even fundamental rights. states ratifying the ilo domestic workers convention are required to take measures to ensure fair and decent working conditions, prevent abuse, ensure equal treatment, protect against discrimination, offer decent living conditions, and provide easy access to complaint mechanisms. there is already a body of union legislation in most matters covered by the convention. overall, the convention and eu legislation share the same approach. eu law is more protective and detailed in some areas and the convention in others. the purpose of the draft council decision submitted to the consent of parliament is to remove any legal impediment to ratifying the ilo domestic workers convention no 189. it will authorise member states to ratify the convention, should they so wish, for the parts of the convention falling under union competence. there are already three council decisions to authorise ratification of other ilo conventions, and this plenary today voted its consent to a similar proposal regarding the chemicals convention no 170, the report by ms steinruck. the implementation of the ilo domestic workers convention is in line with the eu commitment to decent work and the eu strategy to combat trafficking in human beings. the decision to ratify the convention will, however, remain in the hands of the member states. several of them have expressed their intention to do so. the commission is satisfied that the council approved the general approach regarding this proposal in june, and it welcomes the draft recommendation submitted to this plenary session of the european parliament for debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank commissioner andor, in particular for his brave stance when he was interviewed by hostile british media on the supposed romanian and bulgarian invasion. turning to the report, i think it is a first step towards ratification of the ilo convention. the convention itself is an efficient tool in fighting human trafficking under the guise of employment. by ratifying the ilo convention domestic workers will be granted vital legal and economic recognition. as a significant proportion of migrant workers in the eu, domestic workers are particularly vulnerable. domestic workers are usually less knowledgeable about contractual rights and obligations deriving from their work. this is how many of them become easy prey for those trying to push them into illegal activities. i believe that this report is very important for our workers. it deals with a european and global issue and keeps alive the fight against illegal employment and human trafficking.
the reporter. − commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank both my shadow rapporteurs and the european commission for their cooperation. i also thank the economic and social committee for the opinion which i have tried to take into account in the preparation of my own report. by its proposal of 12 june 2013, the european commission proposed to extend the automatic exchange of information between tax administrations of the member states of the european union as part of the intensified fight against tax evasion. under this proposal, dividends, capital gains, all other forms of financial income and account balances will be added to the list of categories subject to automatic exchange of information within the european union. this would make it possible to set up the largest system of its kind in the world in the european union. the proposal, together with the european union's existing directive on taxation of savings and the existing directive on administrative cooperation, which the current proposal aims to amend, will allow member states to exchange as much information as they have committed to exchange with the united states under the us tax compliance and offshore accounts law, known as facta. i also fully support the commission's proposal and consider that it is in line with both the action plan on tax fraud and tax evasion and the european parliament's position expressed in its report on combating tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. in times of crisis, when european citizens often face tax increases, it is vital to address issues of tax fraud and evasion. it causes an estimated loss of €1 trillion per year, which is a cost of around €2 000 per year for every european citizen. the directive also responds to requests from several member states for the conclusion of a so-called european union facta, following bilateral agreements between some member states and the united states of america. the proposal is also in line with and complements initiatives at oecd, g8, g20 and global level. to better respond to the challenges of today, we have proposed some improvements, in particular in terms of data protection and privacy. i consider that the exchange of information should respect the existing data protection legislation of the european union, in particular in view of the sensitivity of this issue and recent international developments. i also consider that, once this directive enters into force, the commission should negotiate, on behalf of the european union, agreements with third countries on the automatic exchange of information on the model of the european union's trade policy. in practice, the negotiations with the united states on facta would, i believe, have been more advantageous for the european union and the member states if the commission, with a mandate from the member states, had been the negotiator on behalf of the european union. at the same time, member states should ensure the effective application of the directive by mobilising all necessary human, technological and financial resources, taking into account the volume and complexity of the information subject to automatic exchange. last but not least, i believe it is necessary for member states to use sanctions to obtain this much needed information. i also want to advocate the swift adoption and implementation of the proposal, in line with the timetable proposed by the commission, because the european union has the opportunity to be a leader in setting a global standard for the automatic exchange of information. i therefore regret the position of the ppe group, which is trying to water down the commission's proposal. the automatic exchange of information is an effective way of fighting tax evasion, and amendment no 17 is damaging to the commission's proposal and to the credibility of the european parliament. it is contradictory to speak of an automatic exchange of information and at the same time to insert the statement 'if this information is available'. i understand the reasoning behind the amendment, but i cannot understand the support of the whole ppe group for this direction and therefore i will not support this amendment.
the reporter. - madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have made a positive contribution to the report. i say again that we are still in a context of crisis, where honest citizens and small and medium-sized businesses pay heavy taxes. on the other hand, we are not able to tax some large, cross-border firms that circumvent the tax systems of the member states. this is why it is a deeply unfair situation and the commission's proposal on automatic exchange of information is an important step towards remedying it. in fact, the european council of june 2013 specifically asked the commission to come forward with this proposal, in the context of which the automatic exchange of information has become a global priority. in the context of consensus at council level, it will be quite difficult to explain why the european parliament, representing the european citizens, is imposing conditions that go against its purpose. i hope, however, that tomorrow's vote will strengthen the commission's position and provide the opportunity for a swift implementation of the directive.
mr president, the long awaited eu summit on defence is approaching fast. there are two major reasons why everybody’s expectations of it are so high. first, defence has not been addressed since 2008, and second, it is defence which is bearing the brunt of fund-cutting during the current crisis. a combination of deluding ourselves that we have achieved near or never-ending security and the fear of losing the public vote have brought us to this point. consequently, it is difficult for our forces to find volunteers for their ranks. the industry is losing qualified workforce. our inventories are rapidly becoming obsolete. our technological edge is vanishing and the centrality of europe’s role in the newly emerging world is gradually being eroded. to avoid passing the point of no return, we need to stop slashing defence budgets and give defence proper attention through a robust follow-up process decided at the upcoming council.
rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i would like to explain that my group decided to abstain in the final vote because we think it is fair to give the commission the green light to negotiate with the council. nevertheless, i find it regrettable that the ppe group decided to water down the commission proposal, which was drafted at the request of the majority of the member states, in may.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the protection of the euro against counterfeiting needs to be financially supported. the most important component of this programme will be the training and preparation of those involved in detecting such fraud. the states which have recorded the highest rates of counterfeiting of euro coins should be given priority in the financial allocations under the programme. the interim evaluations will also play a key role in providing information on the effectiveness of the actions undertaken and on further measures that could be taken.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive, concerning the so-called 'pericles 2020' action programme on exchanges, assistance and training for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, strengthens the current framework for the fight against counterfeiting of the euro. the proposal for a directive introduces a minimum penalty of six months' imprisonment for the production and distribution of counterfeit coins and, in parallel, a maximum penalty of eight years for individuals in the case of distribution of coins with a value of at least eur 5 000.
in writing. − in the first half of 2013, eur 317 000 in counterfeit euro was detected across the european union. this represents an increase of 26 % in comparison to 2012 for the same period. until now, the pericles programme has played an important role in avoiding large-scale counterfeiting which would entail damaging consequences for the eu economy and endanger the stability of the euro and ultimately the stability of all european currencies. with a budget of over eur 7.3 million for the next seven years, pericles 2020 will continue fostering transnational cooperation for the protection of the euro both within and outside the european union. i welcome in particular the fact that the renewed programme seeks the greater involvement of eurojust and of the members of the judiciary working on the fight against euro counterfeiting in its future activities. in the same way as cigarette counterfeiting and smuggling, euro counterfeiting schemes are designed by and benefit organised crime networks at the expense of eu citizens. together with hercule iii, pericles 2020 will help disrupt the activities of organised crime networks and protect the licit economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (the 'pericles 2020' programme). the 'pericles 2020' programme shall actively encourage and involve enhanced transnational cooperation for the protection of the euro within and outside the union and with the union's trading partners, also paying attention to those member states or third countries with the highest rates of counterfeiting of the euro. the financial envelope of the programme is eur 7 344 000 (current prices) and is open to the participation of the following groups: - staff of agencies engaged in detecting and combating counterfeiting (in particular police forces and financial administrations, depending on their specific tasks at national level); - staff of the intelligence services; - representatives of national central banks, mints, commercial banks and other financial intermediaries (in particular with regard to the obligations of financial institutions); - magistrates, specialist lawyers and members of the judiciary in this field; - chambers of commerce and industry or other comparable structures capable of providing access to small and medium-sized enterprises, retailers and cash-in-transit companies. for the implementation of the programme, the commission shall adopt annual work programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is a natural technical amendment to this regulation. as we have said on other occasions, the quality of statistical data is essential in many aspects of our work. decision-makers, businesses and citizens often manage their decisions on the basis of concrete data. the union financial envelope for the implementation of the european statistical programme 2013-2017 will therefore aim to provide a general framework for the development, production and dissemination of high-quality european statistics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu) no 99/2013 on the european statistical programme 2013-2017. regulation (eu) no 99/2013 provides the framework and sets the objectives and achievements for the production, compilation and dissemination of european statistics for the period 2013-2017. it sets out the financial envelope only for 2013, which is included in the 2007-2013 programming period. the adopted amendment establishes the financial envelope for the implementation of the programme for 2013 of eur 57,3 million which is included in the 2007-2013 programming period. for 2014-2017, the amount of eur 234,8 million is fixed to be included in the 2014-2020 programming period. the commission will implement the union financial support in accordance with the financial regulation and will adopt the decision on the annual appropriations in compliance with the prerogatives of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation because at least 53 million people, mostly women and girls, are employed as domestic workers. they make a substantial contribution to the global economy and generate 7.5 percent of the salaries of employed women globally. such activities are among the least protected and often opaque forms of work. of the 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, 89% are women and 50% are migrants, thus vulnerable. by promoting basic labour standards, we will extend the basic rights of these workers and take a step forward in the fight against trafficking in human beings. i can therefore only welcome the fact that the way is now open for the member states to ratify the convention in a very short time. last but not least, i express the hope that a considerable number of countries in the world will follow suit.
in writing. − states that ratify ilo convention 189 on decent work for domestic workers must ensure decent working conditions with social rights and prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the home. the main objective of the convention is to recognise the value of domestic workers and to provide a number of safeguards, such as: defining a domestic worker as a person engaged in domestic gainful activity in an employment relationship; establishing a minimum age for domestic workers; equal treatment for domestic workers and workers in general in terms of normal working hours, overtime compensation, daily and weekly rest periods and paid annual leave and social security protection, with respect for maternity; coverage by the minimum wage for domestic workers where such coverage exists and remuneration established without discrimination on the basis of sex, etc. states should ensure that domestic workers who work for several employers and are usually paid by the hour or day benefit from the same social protection as other workers and pay their social security contributions. it is important to ensure that their salaries are at least equivalent to the national minimum wages laid down by national legislation.
in writing. − considers it necessary for the signatory states to adopt measures aimed at respecting, promoting and raising awareness of fundamental principles and rights in the field of labour (freedom of association and of association, recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, effective abolition of child labour and elimination of discrimination in employment).
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the home has been neglected for too long, its economic and social importance has been overlooked. most domestic workers belong to vulnerable groups such as girls, women, migrants, members of disadvantaged communities and children. protecting them is a challenge for the authorities responsible, especially when they come from another country without receiving a work contract before crossing the border. furthermore, domestic abuse is common and easy to cover up. we have to be responsible for those who stay at home or in other people's homes, or we're rightly accused of hypocrisy. the lack of legislation to protect domestic workers by means of effective labour inspection measures, enforcement and sanctioning of breaches of the measures adopted is a disgrace to a democratic union that prides itself on defending human rights. there are over 2.6 million people in the eu who, without our efforts, will be left exposed to risks that can often cost them their lives. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interest of the european union, the 2011 international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189). most of the rules under the 2011 international labour organisation (ilo) convention no 189 on decent work for domestic workers are largely covered by the union acquis in the areas of social policy, combating discrimination, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and asylum and immigration. the provisions of the convention on the protection of migrant domestic workers potentially affect the free movement of workers an area falling within the exclusive competence of the union. the council should therefore authorise member states which are bound by union law on minimum requirements in the field of working conditions to ratify the convention in the interest of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because, although armenia has recently decided not to initial the association agreement with the eu and to take a practical step back from the european path, i believe that its participation in certain community programmes can continue. the european union has never made financial support conditional on a country's strategic orientation. that is why i believe that areas of common interest can be identified where armenia and the european union can continue to work together. this is about strengthening administrative capacity, the proper functioning of the judiciary, the transition to a 'green' economy, etc.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities entered into force on 1 july 1999. armenia has actively participated in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. this draft recommendation addresses the participation of the republic of armenia in union programmes following its express request in april 2012. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes and includes standard provisions forming part of such protocols for the enp countries. participation in each programme therefore requires the drafting of a memorandum of understanding (mou) to be signed by both parties. in addition, the participation of the enp countries shall only concern those union programmes whose status and objectives allow such participation. the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening up or enhanced participation of armenia in certain union programmes, providing an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, intensifying people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to strengthening political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. − i consider that the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in european union programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the eu-armenia partnership and cooperation agreement on a framework agreement between the eu and the republic of armenia on the general principles for the participation of the republic of armenia in union programmes. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the eu entered into force in 1999. armenia has actively participated in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its launch in 2009. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes. participation in each programme shall be subject to the drawing up of a memorandum of understanding (mou) to be signed by both parties. the participation of armenia shall only concern those union programmes whose status and objectives permit such participation. armenia shall contribute financially to the specific programmes in which it participates. the financial implications differ according to the programme and are specified in the mou. the conclusion of the protocol will allow for the gradual opening up or enhanced participation of armenia in certain union programmes, providing an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, technical and scientific links, intensifying people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, in addition to strengthening political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the interests of the union must be preserved in the light of the recent development of saint-barthélemy: the transition from the status of an outermost region of the union to that of an overseas country and territory as from 1 january 2012. the application of union law on taxation of savings income and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation in the community of saint-barthélemy is therefore necessary to this end. last but not least, we are talking about specific mechanisms aimed in particular at measures to combat tax fraud and evasion, which are central to the european agenda.
in writing. − having regard to the agreement between the european union and the french republic on the application, to the community of saint-barthélemy, of the union legislation on taxation of savings income and administrative cooperation in tax matters, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the french republic on the application, to the community of saint-barthélemy, of the union legislation on taxation of savings income and administrative cooperation in tax matters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the extension of the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec was necessary in the unfavourable economic context of the canary islands. tourism activities have been steadily declining in recent years in the canary islands, leading to a significant increase in unemployment. the extension of the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec will give the spanish authorities the opportunity to stimulate the economy in the region and to combat the very high unemployment. thus, by exempting or reducing taxes on products manufactured in the canary islands, entrepreneurship in the area can be stimulated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards its period of application. council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 adopted pursuant to article 299 (2) of the ec treaty authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the 'arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias' ('the 'aiem') for certain products manufactured locally in the canary islands. on 16 november 2010, spain submitted to the commission a request for an extension of the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec by two years, so that its expiry date coincides with that of the regional aid guidelines 2007-2013. council decision 895/2011/eu of 19 december 2011 amended decision 2002/546/ec by extending its period of application until 31 december 2013. on 28 june 2013, the commission adopted new regional aid guidelines for the period 2014-2020. given that those guidelines enter into force on 1 july 2014, it is justified to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec, as amended by decision 895/2011/eu, by six months in order to coincide with the expiry date of those guidelines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i too agree that eu development aid should be better coordinated. it is not normal that in times of crisis we should redouble our efforts and thus waste a lot of money unnecessarily. on the other hand, i believe that assistance should focus more on financing education and health in developing countries. i believe that in these areas coordination would be essential and would lead to concrete results. more use should also be made of the traditional links that some member states have with developing countries. and the aid should be coordinated by those eu members with a more developed distribution network and contacts in the beneficiary countries.
in writing. − recent estimates in the 'non-europe' cost report show that some €800 million could be saved annually by reducing transaction costs if the eu and its member states focused their aid efforts on fewer countries and activities. a further eur 8.4 billion could be saved annually if country allocations were fully coordinated and focused solely on poverty reduction. in view of this, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution containing recommendations to the commission on the coordination of eu donors on development aid. a coordinated action by the eu as a whole, in particular through the establishment of a committee composed of representatives of the commission, the council and the european parliament, has an added value that, in terms of policies and financial leverage, is greater than the sum of the individual actions of its 28 member states and the commission. we call on the commission to present, preferably by 31 december 2015 and in any event no later than the first half of 2016, a proposal for an act on eu donor coordination on development aid, pursuant to articles 209 and 210 tfeu, following the adoption and implementation of a roadmap.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the appointment of phil wynn owen as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe he has the experience to fill this post. his professional experience of over 30 years working for different uk governments proves his political independence, an essential quality in the performance of his future duties. thank you!
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament's decision to give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint phil wynn owen as a member of the court of auditors. mr phil wynn owen was heard at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013. the committee on budgetary control also assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the appointment of mr alex brenninkmeijer as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe that his professional experience is suitable for such a position. as national ombudsman, he has received an unqualified opinion from parliament on the way in which this institution has been run since 2005. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision of 11 december 2013 on the proposal to appoint alex brenninkmeijer as a member of the court of auditors, giving a favourable opinion on the council's proposal. article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external audit institutions in their state or who possess the requisite qualifications for this office. they shall provide all guarantees of independence. mr alex brenninkmeijer was heard at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013. the committee on budgetary control also assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the appointment of mr henri grethen as a member of the court of auditors. i consider that, between 2008 and 2013, mr grethen, as a member of the european court of auditors, lived up to expectations by being actively involved in his professional activities, holding, in addition to his position as a member of the court of auditors, the positions of member of the audit group ii and subsequently of chamber ii. thank you. thank you.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision to give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr henri grethen as a member of the court of auditors, since he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the european parliament was consulted by the council pursuant to article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a period of six years by the council, after consulting the european parliament, in accordance with the proposals made by each member state. mr henri grethen was heard at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013. the committee on budgetary control also assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the appointment of mr nikolaos milionis as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe that mr milionis' time at the greek court of auditors will be beneficial to the european court of auditors. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament and the council. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision on the nomination of nikolaos milionis as a member of the court of auditors in the light of the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control which assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. mr nikolaos milionis was heard at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision to give a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint danièle lamarque as a member of the court of auditors. the european parliament was consulted by the council pursuant to article 286 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a period of six years by the council, after consulting the european parliament, in accordance with the proposals made by each member state. article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the members of the court of auditors shall be chosen from among persons who are or have been members of the external financial control institutions in their state or who possess specific qualifications for that office. they shall provide all guarantees of independence. ms danièle lamarque was heard at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 7 november 2013. the committee on budgetary control also assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, taking into account in particular the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − the european central bank proposed on 22 november 2013 the appointment of danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb in accordance with article 26 (3) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013. it provides that the european central bank (ecb) shall submit to parliament its proposal for the appointment of the chair of its supervisory board, and that the chair shall be elected on the basis of an open selection procedure from among natural persons of recognised standing and experience in the financial and banking sector who are not members of the governing council. having regard to the recommendation of the committee on economic and monetary affairs which assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular the requirements set out in article 26 (2) and (3) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013, i voted in favour of the european parliament decision approving the proposal of the european central bank ecb to appoint danièle nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb.
in writing. − i believe that any debate on the external action of the european union must start with the establishment of a set of effective, flexible and adaptable instruments, capable at the same time of achieving the objectives of this approach: the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, respect for international law, effective protection of universal human rights, respect for human dignity and solidarity. equally important is the development of a clear and effective system for assessing the impact of eu financial assistance in implementing these principles. it is also necessary to ensure complementarity between the european union's external action policies and instruments.
in writing. − the proposed regulation will serve as a horizontal framework, in line with the objectives of the simplification agenda for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, providing unified and harmonised rules for the geographical instruments of the eu's external action. the eu financial instruments are not intended to replace those of the member states or to substitute for private funding or other eu financial interventions. the commission seeks to ensure the coherence and complementarity of the funds, in order to create budgetary synergy by sharing its resources and expertise with those of its partners. innovative financial instruments have a multiplier effect on the eu budget by facilitating and attracting other public and private funding for projects of interest to the eu, but this should not be at the expense of the fair use of eu funds. in the same context, budgetary considerations should also strike the right balance to better align the eu's internal policy objectives with its external objectives, by streamlining initiatives such as the europe 2020 strategy or those in the field of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, entrepreneurship and environmental protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i too want more coherence in the union's external action. funds for non-eu countries should focus mainly on supporting justice reforms. energy projects and projects aimed at combating discrimination should also not be neglected. i am confident that through the external financial instruments the union will become a reference point for the neighbourhood and beyond. i also stress the importance of monitoring how the funds are spent. it is very important that our citizens know that money is being used correctly and leads to concrete results. the annual report will therefore play a special role in showing where improvements can be made in the spending of funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down common rules and procedures for the implementation of the union's instruments for external action. the approved regulation lays down the rules and conditions for union financial assistance to actions, including action programmes and other measures, under the following instruments: the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the commission shall adopt the annual action programmes, based on the indicative programming documents referred to in the relevant instrument, as appropriate, in accordance with the approved regulation. the commission may also adopt multiannual action programmes in accordance with article 6 (1b). action programmes specific to each action, including the objectives pursued, the expected results and main activities, the methods of implementation, the budget and an indicative timetable, possible support measures and arrangements for monitoring results.
in writing. − globally, the european union has assumed an important role through its external policies, focused on conflict prevention and peacekeeping. these objectives, which derive from the fundamental principles of the european union, must, however, be pursued in a coherent and effective manner, by means of appropriate instruments. the variety of factors that can pose direct or indirect threats to the european union and its citizens makes the development of such institutional instruments all the more important. they must contribute to the development of the capacity for rapid reaction, crisis management or the impact of natural phenomena. they must ensure the effectiveness of the union's external policy and act in a complementary manner to policies and instruments with medium- or long-term effects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the european union's receipt of the nobel peace prize means that efforts in this area must continue. the instrument for stability and peace can contribute to strengthening international security and preventing conflicts in the world. i would also like to welcome the inclusion in the programme of measures such as combating discrimination or promoting gender equality. at the same time, combating trafficking in human beings and drugs must remain a priority, given that the union is a preferred destination for such illegal activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the stability instrument. it will contribute to stability and peace and provide, for the period 2014-2020, direct support for the union's external policies by improving the efficiency and coherence of union action in the field of conflict prevention, crisis preparedness, crisis response and peacebuilding, as well as in addressing global and trans-regional threats. the financial envelope is eur 2 338 719 000. in accordance with the approved regulation, the union shall take measures of development cooperation, as well as measures of financial, economic and technical cooperation with third countries, regional and international organisations and other state and civil society actors. civil society actors include non-governmental organisations, organisations representing indigenous peoples, professional groups and local initiative groups, cooperatives, trade unions, organisations representing economic and social interests, local organisations (including networks) active in the field of decentralised regional cooperation and integration, consumer organisations, women's and youth organisations, educational, cultural, research and scientific organisations, universities, churches and associations or religious communities, the media and all non-governmental associations and private and public foundations likely to contribute to the development of external or internal policies.
i voted in favour of the report because this programme is crucial for the rapprochement of the eastern neighbourhood countries with the union, although unfortunately they have not yet been given a clear prospect of accession. i am referring in particular to the republic of moldova, which has embarked on particularly important reforms since 2009 and the results are visible. the initialling of the association agreement and the free trade agreement, as well as the successful implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, also took place in record time compared to other countries. in accordance with the principle 'more for more', i call on the european union to give priority financial support to the republic of moldova when setting national allocations under the european neighbourhood instrument.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy is one of the most important ways in which the european union can exert its political influence in the geographical area close to its borders. at this level, there are many factors that need to be taken into account by european decision-makers: organised crime, human trafficking, the flow of migrants. all these factors justify the need for an active neighbourhood policy. but this cannot be achieved without the right tools to deliver the solutions and the results that are expected. the european neighbourhood instrument must generate political and economic incentives capable of giving substance to this major policy of the european union. without factors capable of promoting institutional transformation and policy change, the european union's neighbourhood cannot become the area of prosperity we all want.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy aims to create an area of prosperity and good relations with the eu's neighbouring countries. the general objective of the eu's neighbourhood policy is to extend the area of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms to the countries in the eu's neighbourhood. this policy can be seen as an investment in the future of the eu and covers 16 partner countries to the east and south of the eu's borders. within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, the union offers neighbouring countries a privileged relationship based on a mutual commitment to respect and promote the values of democracy and human rights, the rule of law, good governance, employment, human capital development, social protection and the principles of the market economy and sustainable development, with a particular focus on strengthening civil society. gender equality, combating discrimination, social justice, social inclusion and workers' rights should be a cross-cutting objective of all actions undertaken under this regulation. the union should support partner countries in their efforts to create jobs and improve employability, address labour market issues and develop social policies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european neighbourhood instrument, which directly supports the union's external policy and plays a key role in strengthening its relations with its neighbourhood countries. as part of this policy, the union offers its neighbours a privileged relationship based on a common commitment to the values of democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and good governance, as well as the principles of a market economy and sustainable and inclusive development. it is important that the european neighbourhood policy also provides a framework for enhancing the mobility of persons, in particular through the facilitation of visa procedures and, on a case-by-case basis, through visa liberalisation. the union's support through this instrument shall be defined in partnership with beneficiaries in the preparation, implementation and monitoring of union support, including with national and local authorities as well as civil society organisations. this is a positive sign that this instrument is aimed at achieving concrete results in collaboration with the political and civil actors on the ground.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the european neighbourhood instrument. article 8 of the treaty on european union provides that the union is to develop privileged relations with neighbouring countries with a view to establishing an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the values of the union and characterised by close and peaceful relations based on cooperation. the adopted regulation establishes a european neighbourhood instrument (eni) with a view to making further progress towards the achievement of an area of shared prosperity and good neighbourliness involving the union and the following countries and territories: the following entries for the countries listed in annex i to the treaty on european union are deleted: within this area of shared prosperity and good neighbourliness, special relations based on cooperation, peace and security, mutual accountability and a common commitment to the universal values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, in accordance with the treaty on european union, will develop. the financial envelope available for the implementation of the regulation approved for the period 2014-2020 is set at eur 15 432 634 000 in current prices. up to 5% of the financial envelope shall be allocated to cross-border cooperation programmes.
i voted in favour of the report and welcome the emphasis on funding measures to combat discrimination against minorities and to strengthen the rule of law in the acceding countries. as we are also talking about the western balkans, we all know that there are still problems with respect for minority rights in the region. this is also the case for the romanians in the timocului valley, who are intimidated by the local authorities because they want to preserve their identity. in october, for example, several romanians present at the consecration of a troika were investigated without any legal basis. this is happening despite serbia signing the protocol on minorities with romania. i therefore call on the serbian authorities to respect the copenhagen criteria, an essential condition for advancing integration.
in writing. − accession to the european union is a process of strong political and institutional transformation and is membership of an organisation based primarily on adherence to a set of principles. at the same time, the accession process must guarantee an effective transition to participatory democracy in the candidate countries, support the building of strong anti-corruption mechanisms and open and transparent public institutions. building the rule of law is an imperative, but one that must be undertaken with determination. the benefits of enlargement strengthening the european area of solidarity and security are clear. they cannot be achieved, just as the process of transformation of the member states cannot be achieved in the absence of effective instruments capable of ensuring compatibility between the identity and interests of the candidate state and those of the european union.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the european parliament resolution on the instrument for pre-accession assistance, which i voted in favour of. assistance to the candidate countries, which is expected to amount to almost eur 11 billion for the period 2014-2020, is a strong support for the union's enlargement policy, particularly towards the western balkans and turkey. the enlargement strategy is based on consolidation, conditionality and communication, combined with the union's capacity to integrate new members. the accession process is based on objective criteria and on the application of the principle of equal treatment of all candidate countries, each of which is to be judged on its own merits. progress towards accession depends on each candidate's respect for the union's values and its capacity to undertake the necessary reforms to bring its political, institutional, legal, administrative and economic system into line with the union's rules, standards, policies and practices. i am pleased that this instrument also provides for targeted and more flexible assistance, which gives more responsibility to local authorities, and to reward the progress made by the candidate countries in implementing reforms.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal for a regulation on the ipa ii pre-accession facility and its focus on a more effective and targeted reform process. i believe that in the pre-accession process the european union should not reinvent the wheel. the best examples of the challenges that arise and need to be addressed in the reform process are found in the experience of the states that joined in the 2004 and 2007 waves. i therefore welcome the importance attached by ipa ii to strengthening the rule of law, including by combating corruption and organised crime, and the focus on public administration reform and good governance. the latter two will be key conditions for the use of the structural funds after accession. and as political and administrative reform goes hand in hand with economic development, i welcome funding for the thematic priorities on employment, including youth employment, fostering competitiveness and strengthening the business environment. last but not least, i would also like to mention the importance of developing civil society, research capacities and information technology. thank you!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii). ipa ii shall support the beneficiaries listed in annex i (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, iceland, kosovo, montenegro, serbia, turkey, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia) in adopting and implementing the political, institutional, legal, administrative, social and economic reforms required by the beneficiaries listed above in order to comply with the union's values and to progressively align with the union's rules, standards, policies and practices, with a view to accession to the union. assistance under the adopted regulation shall be provided in accordance with the enlargement policy framework defined by the european council and the council and taking due account of the commission communication on the enlargement strategy and the interim reports contained in the commission's annual enlargement package, as well as the relevant resolutions of the european parliament. the commission shall conclude framework agreements with each beneficiary for the implementation of the assistance. the financial envelope for the period 2014-2020 is set at eur 11 698 668 000 (in current prices). up to 4% of the financial envelope shall be allocated to cross-border cooperation programmes between the beneficiaries listed in annex i and eu member states, in accordance with their needs and priorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european union has been a global leader in assistance to third countries in recent years and this must not change. it is in our interest to have stability, no matter what area we are talking about, so that we can develop partnerships with as many countries as possible. this will result in economic benefits for the union, but also reduce the chances of those states becoming hotbeds of regional or even global instability. if the regulation is applied in a differentiated way and takes account of the differences between the countries to which it is addressed, it can be a real success. in my view, priority should be given to actions aimed at improving education and health systems, as well as combating poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries. the adopted regulation is a new and complementary instrument that provides direct support to the european union's external policies, extending cooperation partnerships and political dialogues to areas and topics beyond development cooperation. the regulation establishes the partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries to develop and promote the interests of the eu and each other. the partnership instrument shall support actions that contribute in an effective and flexible manner to the objectives stemming from the union's bilateral, regional or multilateral relations with third countries and that address challenges of global concern or ensure an adequate follow-up to decisions taken at multilateral level. the financial reference amount for the implementation of the regulation for the period 2014 to 2020 shall be eur 954 765 000. in order to promote the international dimension of higher education, an indicative amount of eur 1 680 000 000 from the various external instruments (development cooperation instrument, european neighbourhood instrument, instrument for pre-accession assistance, partnership instrument) will be allocated to actions on educational mobility to or from non-eu countries, as well as cooperation and political dialogue with authorities/institutions/organisations in these countries.
in writing. − the european union has demonstrated over time, particularly through its enlargement policies, but above all through its foreign policy actions, that it remains a staunch supporter of universal human rights and the expansion and consolidation of democratic regimes. the pursuit of these objectives is not necessarily a specific interest of the union, but rather a consistent reflection of the principles underlying the functioning of the european union. but upholding human rights, as well as strengthening democracy, is not possible without a clear and coherent policy set that is able to address the multiple challenges in these areas. moreover, the operationalization of these policies must be done through flexible instruments, in order to ensure that the overriding interests of european states and societies are successfully realised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, in my view, the model that the union has developed in respect for human rights should be exported to the rest of the world. supporting civil society in countries that are challenging democratic principles is essential. ngos and other associations in many countries are the only voice fighting to preserve freedom of thought and expression. that's why i think our support should be as much declarative as it is financial. whether we are talking about organisations fighting for minority rights or women's rights, supporting them is an effective measure to combat the abuses that many governments in third countries are committing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide. the adopted regulation establishes a european instrument for democracy and human rights under which the union shall provide assistance for the development and consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the union assistance granted under the adopted regulation shall be implemented through the following measures and in accordance with the common implementing regulation: strategy papers and their revisions, as appropriate; annual action programmes, individual measures and support measures; special measures. the financial envelope for the implementation of the regulation for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 1 332 752 000.
in writing. − one of the most important objectives of the european union's development policy is to combat poverty. poverty and the collateral effects of low living standards are at the root of some of the most important economic, political and social challenges facing the world's states and societies. in these circumstances, i believe that, although external aid provided by the european union remains one of the most important instruments of development policy, there is a need for more effective coordination between the actions of the union and the member states and for greater transparency in relations between the union and the partner countries. while the union remains the main global contributor in this area, there is a need to build a framework capable of harmonising national policies with european ones, thus ensuring a high level of complementarity and cooperation.
in writing. − i believe that this regulation should establish, for the entire duration of the instrument, a financial envelope which constitutes the main reference for the budgetary authority in the annual budgetary procedure.
in writing. i welcome the positive outcome of the vote on the report on the establishment of a financing instrument for development cooperation for the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour of this important report on the european union's foreign policy. this instrument finances the european union's development cooperation policy and aims in particular to strengthen the fight against poverty and food security. the positive vote on this instrument will allow the union's development cooperation policy to focus on human development, particularly in the areas of health and education, as well as on sustainable development and food security. in addition, all supported policies will have to be implemented in a manner which fully respects human rights and which will address the poorest countries first. finally, i am pleased that this new instrument of the union's development cooperation policy also has as its main objective the sustainable support of organisations representing civil society.
in writing. - the european commission has included simplification among the objectives of the new multiannual financial framework. as regards development policy, the introduction of a more flexible financing instrument is a step in this direction. the proposal says that national strategy papers will no longer be necessary if the partner country has its own development plan. in pursuit of the objective of reducing poverty in the world and having ascertained that the majority of the poor live in developing countries, the conclusion of bilateral agreements with non-eu countries will have to take due account of the initial objectives but at the same time relate them to the conditions of economic development already found in some of these states.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of a new instrument for financing development cooperation. even as the eu countries face the problems of the economic crisis, we must not neglect our commitments to the world's poorest countries. for aid to poor countries to have the desired effect, better coordination between eu and member states' development cooperation policies is needed. they must complement each other not only in theory but also at the level of programmes and projects. we need to put more emphasis on results and efficiency in the use of funds in the field of development cooperation. as regards eligibility, i welcome actions related to the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development, including specific allocations for environmental and climate change issues. they complement actions related to support for democracy and the rule of law. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation. the fight against poverty remains the primary objective of the european union's development policy as set out in chapter 1 of title v of the treaty on european union and chapter 1 of title iii of part five of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in line with the millennium development goals (mdgs) and other internationally agreed development commitments and targets endorsed by the union and its member states in the united nations and other relevant international fora. the financial reference amount for the implementation of the adopted regulation for the period 2014-2020 shall be eur 19 662 million. the funding will be made available through two multiannual allocations covering only the first four years and the last three years respectively. this funding will be reflected in the indicative multiannual programming of these instruments, in line with the identified needs and priorities of the countries concerned. the amounts allocated may be revised in the event of major unforeseen circumstances or major political changes, in line with the eu's external priorities.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report, being the first romanian mep to draw attention to the lack of legislation for access to the egf. i know very well the utility of the fund. my country only accessed the egf once for the workers laid off at the nokia factory, during the former right-wing government, after i had pointed out this possibility in the plenary of parliament itself. i consider that very important amendments have been made to the way the egf will operate after 2014. i welcome the extension of support to farmers affected by the crisis, but also the emphasis on the reintegration of young unemployed people into the labour market. and pre-financing will reduce the pressure on national budgets. perhaps, therefore, the socialist government of romania will also be interested in accessing this fund and supporting the unemployed in romania, whose number increased in 2013.
in writing. − the egf was set up to provide the eu with a tool to show solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in global trade patterns caused by globalisation. the fund was subsequently extended to include workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. in 2009-2010, 82% of egf applications were based on criteria related to the 'crisis derogation' and, in the same period, 10% of redundant workers in the eu accessed the fund. the commission's proposal to include the notion of unexpected crisis in the regulation is therefore welcome, as it allows the fund to respond to the real needs of workers made redundant. i believe that the european union needs a return to growth with a dynamic job creation agenda. the egf may help to achieve these objectives by supporting workers made redundant when they seek employment, improve their skills or re-skill or wish to pursue self-employment, in line with the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the egf was set up to provide the eu with a tool to show solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in global trade patterns caused by globalisation. the maximum amount proposed for the seven-year period (2014-2020) is eur 3 billion, with a maximum annual use of the fund of eur 429 million. the eu needs economic growth with a dynamic job creation agenda. the egf may help to support workers made redundant when they seek employment, improve their skills or re-skill or wish to pursue self-employment, in line with the eu 2020 strategy. the evaluation of the fund reported a re-employment rate of 48,1% and in most cases this rate increased over the medium term. one of the most common criticisms of the egf is that it reacts too slowly. it is important to improve the speed of this fund by further limiting the deadlines. member states should make every effort to ensure that they respond to planned or announced redundancies as soon as possible and that they start applying the measures as soon as they submit applications to the fund.
in writing. − in the previous european seven-year programme, we were already able to appreciate the added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the maximum amount for the next 7 years has been set at eur 3 billion, with a maximum annual drawdown of eur 429 million. the fund is intended for fixed-term and temporary workers, owners and managers of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed persons. we believe that more could be done in this spending area too, especially in view of the allocation of these resources, which are intended to protect those who lose their jobs and seek to be relocated. however, we welcomed the proposal as amended and we consider the egf to be a fundamental instrument, especially in the context of the economic crisis we are going through.
in writing. − the revised european globalisation adjustment fund for the period 2009-2013 has been a real help to a significant number of european citizens who have lost their jobs as a result of the financial crisis that hit europe. the european union has managed to overcome the crisis period, but unfortunately the labour market is still fragile. labour absorption rates are still not at pre-crisis levels, and we cannot predict when they will return. i therefore consider it important that the eu continues to be involved in helping workers made redundant as a result of the cuts associated with the economic crisis. i support raising the maximum co-financing threshold of the fund and extending eligibility in terms of access to the fund to smes, self-employed workers and farmers, categories de facto excluded from the range of possible beneficiaries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) (2014-2020). the egf enables the union to show solidarity with workers made redundant and can provide support to beneficiaries in small labour markets or in exceptional situations, in particular with regard to collective applications involving small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), even if the number of redundancies is below the normal threshold for mobilising the egf. the adopted regulation applies to applications from member states for financial contributions from the egf for actions concerning: - workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade due to globalisation, as demonstrated by a substantial increase in imports into the union, a profound change in trade in union goods or services, a rapid decline in the union market share in a sector or the resulting relocation of activities to third countries, provided that the redundancies have a strong negative impact on the local, regional or national economy; - workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and as a result of regulation (ec) no 546/2009 and a new global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. standards for the automatic exchange of information differ from country to country and bilateral or multilateral agreements in this area have not proven effective. if my country were to collect all the taxes and fees it has, it would have budget revenues as a percentage of gdp above the european average. i therefore agree that taxation and the exchange of information on taxation should be discussed at eu level. i would like to express my position on the clause on the availability of certain information. i am of the opinion that such a clause is not appropriate in the context of this directive. i say this because states must have an equal share in this exchange of information. and any exceptions to this may give rise to abuse, affecting the overall objective of the proposal.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on this report on the automatic and compulsory exchange of information in tax matters because of the adoption of a regressive and very problematic amendment introduced and adopted by the conservatives in the european parliament, which has seriously weakened the scope of the text. the purpose of this directive is to extend the automatic exchange of information between european tax administrations, with the aim of strengthening the fight against tax evasion. the amendment introduced by the conservatives will leave it to member states to decide in their national law which categories of information will be subject to the obligation to exchange tax information automatically. this possibility for member states greatly weakens the scope of this text, even though tax evasion is considered to be one of the major problems today and has contributed to the worsening of the financial crisis. however, it is important that the socialist and democratic group has succeeded in making the exchange of information between tax authorities compulsory. the strengthening of european tax policy must be achieved through the automatic exchange of information. the introduction of exceptions to this principle by the conservatives is a negative sign in the fight against tax evasion, which must be uncompromising.
in writing. − every year, eur 1 trillion is lost to tax evasion and avoidance in the eu. in 2011, the size of the shadow economy was estimated to be around eur 2.4 billion. this represents 19.2 % of the unionʼs gdp. last april, offshore leaks disclosed details of 130 000 offshore accounts and the tax justice network estimated that eur 16 to 25 trillion are hidden in offshore places. these facts are straightforward and show that fighting tax fraud needs to be further reinforced at eu level and cooperation among member states improved and deepened. the commission’s proposal to extend the scope of the already existing eu automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation agreements to dividends, capital gains, other financial income and account balances represents a positive step forward. i expect the council and the member states to commit to their statement of 2 march 2012 advocating for increased levels of cooperation in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and to support the commission’s amended proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which contains a number of important regulations for the safety of workers in the field, and not least for public safety, because we are talking about the transport of radioactive and therefore particularly dangerous goods. in addition, by replacing national reporting and authorisation obligations with a single system for recording such shipments, important simplifications of the procedure are introduced, administrative burdens are reduced, while maintaining an adequate level of protection. however, this regulation needs to be implemented in an efficient and harmonised manner by defining common criteria to be applied by member states when issuing registration certificates to hauliers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a community system for the registration of carriers of radioactive materials. the adopted regulation establishes a community system for the authorisation and registration of carriers of radioactive materials based on directive 2008/68/ec and directive 96/29/euratom. it shall apply to any carrier transporting radioactive materials by road, rail and inland waterway within the community, from third countries to the community and from the community to third countries. a transitional period of one year shall apply from the date of entry into force of the regulation in order to allow all carriers to apply for and obtain a registration certificate under the adopted regulation. during this transitional period, the provisions of directive 96/29/euratom and directive 2008/68/ec shall apply. i voted for amendment no 54 which prohibits the transport of radioactive materials in a convoy carrying explosive materials. i also voted for amendment no 53, which states that when applying for registration, the applicant must prove that he has the financial means to pay compensation for any damage in the event of an accident involving the convoy for which he is responsible, in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle.
i voted in favour of the report because i am concerned that in areas of frozen conflict, minority rights are being violated. in the separatist transnistrian region, the right to education in the mother tongue is also violated. a few days ago, separatist militia invaded the romanian-language high school in tiraspol, threatening the principals with arrest. it is neither the first nor certainly the last abuse of the so-called authorities in tiraspol. now that the republic of moldova has initialled the association agreement, a final solution to the transnistrian conflict is needed, which takes into account the country's internationally recognised borders. also, the so-called peacekeeping force must be replaced by a civilian mission. the union needs to be more actively involved in mediating such solutions.
in writing. − justice, the rule of law, accountability, transparency and accountability, the fight against impunity, fair trials and the independence of the judiciary are essential elements for the protection of human rights. eu human rights policy must be consistent with respect for the obligations laid down in the treaties, ensuring coherence between internal and external policies and avoiding double standards in external policies. the commission and the council should continue to encourage third countries to take account of women's rights in the development of national legislation and to ensure its implementation. all council of europe member states must sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence and the european union must start the process of acceding to the convention in order to ensure coherence between the eu's internal and external actions on violence against women. the european union and its member states must also support the full participation of women in political and economic decision-making processes, in particular in peacebuilding, democratic transition and conflict resolution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the success of civil society depends on its effectiveness in the fight for human rights. the role of national institutions and international organisations is fundamental to strengthening a functioning system that upholds human rights not only across the eu's borders but also in countries where the situation is of concern, such as belarus and ukraine. the importance of policy dialogues and the exchange of good practices must go beyond theoretical level and clearly result in improving the situation. we can no longer tolerate violence, discrimination, inequality in health and education systems. our voice will not be credible across the union's borders if we do not take a strong stand on human rights at home. accidents and incidents like the one in lampedusa must be avoided at all costs. eu development cooperation with other states must be linked to the improvement of human rights. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on human rights in the world 2012 and eu policy on the matter. we welcome the eu annual report 2012 on human rights and democracy in the world as it illustrates the eu's efforts to promote the mainstreaming of human rights, gender equality, democracy and good governance in development policies and instruments. we believe that human rights dialogues and consultations should strengthen and support civil society, human rights defenders, trade unions, journalists and lawyers. i support supporting an active and independent civil society worldwide, both politically and financially, for example through the european instrument for democracy and human rights. i believe that opening up european student exchange programmes to young people from third countries and organising training programmes for young people would encourage the active participation of young people in building democracy and strengthen civil society. i support the practice of including non-negotiable, legally binding human rights clauses in all international agreements concluded by the eu with third countries, and i believe that such human rights clauses should be systematically included in all sectoral trade agreements.
in writing. - i voted for this report. sectors with low levels of competition are often comparable to those with poor economic performance. and the worst affected are, as always, eu citizens who pay more for products of poorer quality and whose confidence in the internal market is affected. we need an active competition policy, focused on removing existing barriers but also on preventing abuses. this should take into account improving access to and participation of smes in the internal market. it should also facilitate the entry of new players, techniques and ideas into the market, amplifying the benefits for citizens and the eu economy. finally, i also support the view that parliament should have legislative powers of co-decision in this area, because competition policy must have a solid democratic basis.
in writing. − 20 years after the creation of the internal market, many consumers are still severely affected by anti-competitive practices in many economic sectors. these practices sometimes originate in the private sector, as in the case of cartels, but a widespread phenomenon is also the tendency of the public sector to oppose opening up to competition in many important economic sectors, such as railways, airports, telecommunications and electricity. as the crisis deepens, lending to the real economy continues to decline and become more expensive, which is not explained by the financial situation of smes but by their geographical location within the euro area. this situation needs to be addressed given that the monetary policy transmission mechanism is de facto dysfunctional. i believe that another sector of fundamental importance is the transport sector. it is necessary to complete the implementation of the single european railway area and to ensure that the single market for rail passenger and freight is not affected by the incorrect or incomplete transposition of community legislation in the member states.
in writing. − i voted for this report and support the rapporteur's solution to make the granting of state aid to banks conditional on the granting of credit to smes. smes account for 98% of all businesses in the euro area, employ 75% of the workforce and generate 60% of value added. however, smes face a severe credit crunch and limited access to bank credit prevents them from investing and growing. between 2008 and 2011, state aid to eu banks amounted to €1.6 trillion. some banks have used this money to buy up a larger share of sovereign debt and increase their complexity, while reducing their lending to smes. the granting of state aid to banks must be conditional, inter alia, on lending to smes. to create a competitive and sustainable economy, we must first encourage the development of the real economy, smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents a matter of interest to my country. as of 1 january 2014, romanian milk producers will have to comply with eu-level health rules. moreover, from 2015, the cow milk quotas will disappear. with 41 500 households/farms with 1-5 cattle in romania, they will be unable to compete on the eu market. i therefore agree that additional measures should be made available by the commission as part of the development of the common strategic framework, with the participation of the regional development programme, the european social fund and the cohesion fund.
in writing. − as there are significant cost disadvantages associated with milk production in mountain areas and in view of the additional constraints, in particular land use restrictions, i believe that farmers must be guaranteed profitable and economically viable activities after the expiry of the quota system.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, milk production is a source of income for many citizens of the european union, especially those living in disadvantaged rural areas and the outermost regions. with the expiry of milk quotas in 2015, there will be disruptions in the dairy market. these disruptions will directly affect the residents of disadvantaged areas, as this is their only source of income. they will have to compete with milk imports from the developed countries of the union, which can produce larger quantities of milk at lower prices. i therefore believe that additional measures are needed at european level to avoid depopulation of these areas. since the cap has not addressed this issue, further action is needed at union level, as animal husbandry is not only an economic activity but a means of livelihood for these inhabitants. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on maintaining milk production in mountain areas, less-favoured areas and the outermost regions after the expiry of the milk quota system. there are serious cost disadvantages associated with milk production in mountain areas and in the outermost regions. in view of the additional constraints, in particular land-use restrictions, farmers should be guaranteed profitable and economically viable activities after the expiry of the quota system. alpine pastureland and areas within the outermost regions producing milk require specific investments and measures to maintain or recreate an appropriate environment for the production, processing and marketing of milk. we call on the commission and the member states to increase the efficiency of the union school milk scheme and to allow tendering procedures to specifically mention milk from mountain regions as 'mountain product'. we also call on member states to use short supply chains in the 'milk in schools' programme to encourage local milk production and limit carbon emissions from transport. we call on member states to create the necessary framework for producers and processors in mountain and disadvantaged areas to have access to training and credit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it is also in the european union's interest that less developed countries have greater resilience to crises of all kinds. whether in the eu's neighbourhood or in other parts of the world, stability is very important. preventing poverty, epidemics and encouraging the development of a high-performing education system are priorities for ensuring a stable climate, regardless of the country. therefore, coordination at european union level of financial support to achieve these objectives is desirable. at the same time, the implementation of the measures in question must be done through a strong involvement of local communities, who are best aware of the financing needs.
in writing. − i believe that investing in disaster risk reduction measures before disaster occurs is far more cost-effective than funding the response after a disaster occurs, and therefore i argue that effective disaster response management must consider establishing a framework that allows for the immediate mobilisation of all necessary resources.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, natural disasters affect people all over the world, with 4.4 billion people affected since 1992, according to the un. climate change is causing increasingly severe events, increasing the costs of disasters and creating a number of other problems, such as extreme poverty, food insecurity and malnutrition. i believe that there is a need for a greater engagement of the european union on resilience, which should focus in particular on the least developed countries. it is worrying that resilience is only briefly mentioned in the council conclusions on the 'general post-2015 agenda', especially given that most future urbanisation will take place in the least developed countries. the union's long-term approach to resilience should target ecosystem damage, as some natural disasters could be prevented or reduced through the proper functioning of the ecosystem. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu approach to resilience and disaster risk reduction in developing countries: learning from food security crises. in periods of financial consolidation there is a significant need to use resources effectively and efficiently. in disaster risk reduction funding, particular attention should be paid to helping the most vulnerable. we call on the eu, its member states and partner country governments to improve and develop strategies for disaster risk reduction in developing countries by implementing risk assessment programmes and strengthening early warning systems, by strengthening disaster preparedness, to have an effective response at all levels, and by supporting sustainable development plans in partner countries. we also underline the need to address the underlying causes of persistent food insecurity in certain regions, namely reduced access to appropriate basic services and education, acute poverty, inadequate support for small-scale agriculture and animal husbandry, problems of access to land, environmental degradation, rapid population growth, falling markets, declining per capita food production and poor governance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because discrimination and social exclusion of women with disabilities is unfortunately a european union-wide problem. whether it is about combating the effects of discrimination or about active measures for the social integration of women with disabilities, efforts made so far at member state level are not enough. that is why i welcome the report's proposals, which encourage respect for and promotion of the right to adequate healthcare. the construction of housing adapted to the specific needs of disabled people is also of particular importance. last but not least, it is desirable, as far as possible, that member states provide incentives to employers who employ persons with disabilities to contribute to their social reintegration.
in writing. − women with disabilities are not the only people who are not able to do certain things, but they are women first and foremost, and above all they are human beings. they face challenges and opportunities every day like any other woman; they are girlfriends, daughters, mothers, wives and employees. they fill different roles, as any woman does. women with disabilities can participate in social life, on a personal or general level, through a number of diverse and complementary measures, such as: accessibility of buildings, content and the internet, equal access to education and employment, non-discriminatory approach to female sexuality and motherhood. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the childhood and adolescence of women with disabilities, as these can be the basis for many positive developments in adulthood. it is particularly important to address violence and exclusion in language and media in schools to help children and young adults acquire language that is fair and based on equality. at the same time, it is of particular importance to swiftly implement the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities so that the guaranteed rights of persons with disabilities become a reality.
in writing. − i believe that detailed, reliable and gender-disaggregated statistics and specific studies on the real situation faced by people with disabilities need to be collected, as this is absolutely necessary for designing effective policies to address the intersection between gender, disability and violence.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on women with disabilities. we stress that 80 million people with disabilities live in the eu, of whom 46 million are women and girls. there is a strong link between mobility, disability and social inclusion, in particular with regard to freedom and access to communication, freedom of movement in all areas and access to services. public authorities have a responsibility to set up specialised public services to ensure an adapted environment for women and girls with disabilities so that they can fully assume their rights and responsibilities. the full and active participation of persons with disabilities in all spheres of society should be encouraged and their access to information and communication technologies, home automation and online communication solutions should be expanded. we urge those member states that have not yet ratified the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its optional protocol to do so in order to be able to fully implement them. we call on the commission and the member states to develop awareness-raising campaigns to increase the visibility of women and girls with disabilities. we underline the important role that the media and the internet play in building a positive image of women with disabilities and in encouraging them to assert their rights.
in writing. − i supported this report because we are talking about a sector that represents 11% of eu gdp and almost 15% of the total eu employment. moreover, the retail sector is characterised by a very high percentage of smes and is therefore of major importance in the recovery, growth and employment processes. therefore, especially in the current economic context, it is necessary that member states do not adopt measures that undermine consumer confidence and harm the interests of this commercial sector. the commission will also have to pay particular attention to measures to support independent retailers in the process of monitoring the implementation of its action plan in this sector.
in writing. − the commission's proposed action plan on retail trade was necessary given the problems of lack of competitiveness or obstacles to freedom of establishment, but also the economic importance of this sector, which represents 11% of eu gdp. european consumers need to have full access to information to help them compare products in terms of price or quality and thus benefit from the benefits of the internal market. supporting the development of e-commerce can also contribute to the competitiveness of the sector which needs to adapt to new consumer trends. the commission has pointed out that certain obstacles to freedom of establishment exist in some member states. i consider that establishment is not only one of the four fundamental freedoms but also a necessity for an adequate level of competition in this sector, which ultimately guarantees consumers access to products at better prices. the commission must therefore be uncompromising with such restrictions. last but not least, in order to ensure fairness for all market players, the commission's commitment to focus on unfair trading practices affecting lower bargaining power actors in the supply chain is welcomed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of a european action plan in the retail sector, given that it represents 11% of the european union's gross domestic product and 15% of total employment. given the importance of this sector and the impact of the economic crisis on retail trade, i believe it is very important that the action plan provides concrete solutions in this regard. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that the single market also applies to retail trade, which is why the commission must act to reduce barriers to cross-border trade, discrimination against foreign companies through legal provisions in the commercial and tax field, and to reduce unfair competition practices. i also believe that we need to give greater importance to e-commerce and its growth potential. it is therefore vital that the european action plan also includes provisions on the accessibility of online services and products for consumers. last but not least, i welcome the european commission's intention to create a permanent group on competitiveness, but i believe that it must reflect a balanced representation of the different categories of traders as well as the different stakeholders. thank you!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european retail action plan for the benefit of all actors. the retail market accounts for 11% of eu gdp, provides over 15% of all jobs in europe for both skilled and unskilled workers, and contributes to the social fabric of society. unfortunately, unfair trading practices continue to exist and negatively affect the entire supply chain, including farmers and smes, as well as consumer interests, economic growth and job creation. the rapid development of electronic commerce has brought important benefits to consumers and businesses in terms of innovation, new market prospects and economic growth, improved choice, increased competition and lower prices. we encourage retailers to make the most of innovative technologies and develop new business models for their online customers, while enhancing the shopping experience in brick-and-mortar stores, inter alia, by increasing the level of both pre- and after-sales services. we urge member states not to adopt measures that, in the context of austerity policies, undermine consumer confidence and directly harm the interests of the retail sector, such as vat increases, product reclassification and product prices or store charges.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report deals with the institutional structure of the union and its economic and monetary policy, essentially drawing the general lines for the next legislature and the future commission. with unemployment reaching 26% in some countries, i believe it is imperative to strengthen the social dimension of the economic and monetary union through a social pact and a social pillar. the economic policies we put in place must therefore aim not only at improving competitiveness but also at employment and ensuring adequate social protection, as recalled in the treaty. at the same time, the actions of the troika, which have not delivered the expected results and have often caused an increase in public debt, unemployment and social unrest, cannot remain outside democratic control. the european parliament, as the representative of the citizens, is to oversee the tripartite committee.
thank you, mr president, and thank you to mr klute for this report. access to a bank account for the many is just another dimension of economic and social inclusion. i had a good chat with mr klute, who was interested to know what the specific problems are in the south-eastern member states of the european union. in that conversation, i told mr. klute that in these countries, as a rule, the banking system, most of the banking assets are owned by foreign banks in the developed member states. our problem in these countries is not so much opening a bank account as managing to maintain it, because in these countries and in my country, romania, banks practice a multitude of fees and a level of fees that practically exclude for many citizens the possibility of opening and maintaining a bank account. these are fees that these banks do not dare to practice in the member states where they are based. that is why i think that in the european union we will have to do more in this direction, for decent fees for opening and operating bank accounts.
in writing. we often speak of the free movement of persons within the eu as a fundamental freedom in the eu. this freedom becomes a frustration if citizens who choose mobility face all sorts of problems in their daily lives, including access to a bank account. this is particularly true for young people who are studying in a member state other than their home member state and who have difficulty opening an account without an address in that country. having a payment account with basic functionalities is something absolutely indispensable in everyday life, for receiving salaries, for paying rent and so on. the whole world is going through a process of dematerialization, card payments have become widespread, and in the last few years, smartphone payments have also been developed. i do not think that in such a context we can afford to leave certain categories of the population without access to payment accounts, either because of their financial situation or because of the administrative problems generated by settling in another eu country. in order to trust banks, consumers also need more transparency regarding the fees charged for the various financial services offered.
president draghi, you personally, together with the european central bank, have saved the euro, and for that we thank you. but i would now like to raise an issue of concern to the member states outside the euro area. in order not to generalize, i will give the example of romania. as you know, over 80% of banking assets in romania are owned by parent banks in euro area member states. what's happening now? we are seeing a year-on-year increase in npls, following the credit boom towards the end of 2008. these banks are sitting with non-performing loans on their balance sheets year after year and we are simply seeing the parent banks withdraw money from the new deposits made from the savings of the population and businesses in romania. in other words, while credit is practically not declining, because non-performing loans are not removed from balance sheets, the parent banks are putting tremendous pressure on their romanian subsidiaries to withdraw the credit flows they granted during the boom. i would like to see this issue brought to the attention of the european central bank next year when the assets of the major banks in the euro area are assessed.
president draghi, the european union has not emerged from the crisis as long as its economic and monetary policies are not geared to combating unemployment and stimulating domestic demand, as christine lagarde pointed out yesterday. unlike the united states, which has made progress on the path to economic recovery, the european union does not have a central bank that acts directly to stimulate economic growth. the ecb's monetary policy measures are welcome. however, i believe that the bank should consider using unconventional measures such as capital injections, public debt financing and spending programmes in the fields of innovation, education, transport infrastructure, technology and also to contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. finally, i would like to stress that i believe the mandate of the bank must include two important components: price stability and, equally, full employment.
member of the commission. - mr president, allow me to make this statement on behalf of my colleague, commissioner algirdas šemeta, who was unable to be present. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission thanks the european parliament for its active and decisive role in the fight against tax fraud and evasion and aggressive tax planning. today you are calling on the commission to launch a study on the possible introduction of indicators as a basis for measures to reduce tax fraud and evasion and aggressive tax planning. the commission supports the introduction of standard indicators which will make it possible to take more precise and timely action against this phenomenon. but to develop such indicators we absolutely need the support of the member states. they are the ones who have to develop their indicators. harmonisation at european level will then be possible once these indicators have been developed at national level. there is currently no harmonised measure of the underground economy, nor any even more complex estimate of the tax gap. given the differences between member states in the availability of tax data, their tax systems and their tax administrations, member states must first develop national estimates of the tax gap before we can then make this estimate at european level. once these national estimates are made, indicators at union level based on national data can be developed. so first we need to agree on common definitions. the commission services shall support this process by providing national administrations with platforms for the exchange of good practice on the harmonisation of the methodology for calculating this tax gap. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you also ask for a set of objectives to be introduced quickly. first of all, let me emphasize that the term 'tax gain shortfall' covers a wide phenomenon encompassing different issues. for example, undeclared work, vat fraud, bankruptcies or aggressive tax planning also contribute to the loss of tax revenue. to identify measurable and tangible targets for reducing the tax gap and to develop policies accordingly, we therefore need, in addition to a numerical estimate, to understand the nature of the gap for each type of tax. for example, the commission recently commissioned a study to quantify the vat shortfall. this study was published in september 2013. the vat gap amounts to eur 193 billion per year for the period 2006-2011. that being said, we cannot conclude that vat fraud amounts to such an amount since this shortfall in vat does not only include fraud and evasion. there are other reasons too, including unintentional errors and bankruptcies. however, the findings of this study are an important basis for the discussion on the size of the vat gap and on the methods for reducing it. several member states have, following the publication of this study, initiated a process to assess their vat gap. in conclusion, the commission considers that the european parliament's requests are a step in the right direction but that much work remains to be done. the member states must first do the work internally. the commission is then open to considering the harmonization of these indicators. finally, the setting of quantified targets will have to take account of all the factors of the fiscal shortfall.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i fully support the commission's statement. the crisis has created an opportunity for us here to take action with all the force necessary to stop tax evasion, tax fraud and aggressive tax planning. however, i would like to point out here that we have two member states which have blocked the directive on the declaration and taxation of savings income. we're talking about what? that european citizens no longer agree to the shenanigans of individuals and companies hiding their income and not declaring it for taxation. how is it that when we talk about automatic exchange of information for tax purposes, we again hear reasons, excuse me, that this automatic exchange of information has to be done if the information is available? what bank doesn't know who it's paying interest to, so it puts it in the automated information exchange? i would like to highlight in particular the efforts made by commissioner šemeta and ask commissioner ciolos to convey my appreciation of the efforts he has made to act in this direction, to tackle tax evasion and fraud. i think it's time to ban the transactions in the european union of companies registered in tax havens, which do not want to make transparency agreements with the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to welcome the initiative of my colleagues in the s&d, alde and ppe groups to draw up such a resolution. in practice, the european parliament has been fully committed to the fight against fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, asking the european commission to come up with concrete proposals in this regard. in times of crisis, with european citizens often facing tax increases, it is imperative to tackle fraud and evasion, which cause losses estimated at one trillion euro per year, representing a cost of around €2 000 per citizen each year. the extension of the automatic exchange of information between the tax administrations of the member states is, in my view, a necessary and important step to step up the fight against fraud. i therefore call for the directive to be implemented as soon as possible, while at the same time hoping that the interests of citizens will prevail over certain financial interests and that member states will take account of the need to develop a european definition of the exchange of information. in this context, i find it regrettable that some member states are blocking the improvement of transparency in the disclosure of tax information. but i hope that the european union can break out of this impasse, so as not to lose its credibility.
in writing. i welcome this debate and the imminent adoption of this report. however, i regret that the topic of eco-innovation was not the subject of a debate in the committee on agriculture and rural development of the parliament which, through its powers, could have made an important contribution. i think it is important that agriculture is included in the discussions on greenhouse gas emissions or water resources, given that it is one of the areas most involved in combating or protecting them. through the future common agricultural policy, european agriculture can make a major contribution to the discussion on eco-innovation. i do, however, note the quality of the report and the relevance of the solutions proposed. i also stress that the debate on eco-innovation must continue in the coming years and be reflected in investments financed through european funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the increasing number of cases before the court of justice requires a change in the composition of this institution. in order to provide solutions offered by the court of justice of the european union within a reasonable time, an increase in the number of judges is necessary. although some member states will be able to nominate two judges and others only one, this should not lead to disputes and should be understood in the broader sense of the proper functioning and efficiency of the court of justice. the rapporteur's proposals on the selection procedure should be taken into account in order to identify the most impartial way of selecting candidates.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the draft regulation amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union by increasing the number of judges in the general court. the number of cases before the general court is increasing, which in the long run leads to an increase in the number of cases before it and an increase in the length of proceedings. in accordance with article 19 (2) of the treaty on european union, the court of first instance shall have at least one judge per member state. i supported the increase of the number of judges by twelve additional judges who must be appointed solely on the basis of their professional merits, taking into account their knowledge of the legal systems of the eu and the member states. however, there should be no more than two judges per member state. all judges shall have the same status, rights and obligations. in the context of a procedure for filling one or more of the twelve additional posts, all member states' governments may propose candidates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it represents a necessary legislative harmonisation following the council's decision to amend the status of mayotte in relation to the european union. in view of mayotte's new status as an outermost region, which will be operational from 1 january 2014, union legislation in the field of value added tax and excise duties will therefore be applicable from next year. the proposal therefore aims to ensure that this region will benefit from equal treatment under the two directives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to amend directives 2006/112/ec and 2008/118/ec as regards the french outermost regions, in particular mayotte. the european council, by its decision 2012/419/eu amending the status of mayotte in relation to the eu, decided that mayotte will have, as from 1 january 2014, the status of an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 tfeu instead of an overseas country and territory within the meaning of article 355 (2) tfeu. the proposal aims to ensure that it is treated in the same way under the two directives (directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax and directive 2008/118/ec on the general arrangements for excise duties) as soon as it becomes an outermost region. the proposal is to apply to mayotte the same status applied for many years to guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion. it clarifies the status of the french part of saint martin without changing it. the proposal does not affect the situation of other french outermost regions.
in writing. − as a result of the change in mayotte's status from 'overseas territory' to 'outermost region', eu law will also apply to this region. however, in order to ensure a smooth transition to the application of community law, certain temporary derogations from the application of certain european union rules were required. the application of the directive implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave should therefore be postponed until 1 january 2019 in order not to destabilise the economy of mayotte.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council directive amending council directive 2010/18/eu as a result of the change of status of mayotte. as from 1 january 2014, mayotte ceases to be an overseas territory and becomes an outermost region. this proposal follows the examination of the request by the french authorities to amend the union acquis by postponing the implementation of directive 2010/18/eu implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and the etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec. the french request to postpone the implementation until 31 december 2018 is justified in view of the special economic situation of the new overseas department of mayotte, which requires a gradual alignment of mayotte's legislation with french and european legislation, as well as a gradual increase in social rights, in order to avoid the economic destabilisation of the island that could result from a non-progressive increase in social rights, and to ensure the gradual achievement of equal treatment in the specific field of parental leave. on this basis, it is proposed to amend directive 2010/18/eu to grant france a deferral of the implementation of the directive in mayotte.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a clean and healthy environment is a necessary condition for maintaining prosperity and a high quality of life in europe, but equally important are the strength and competitiveness of the economy. moreover, i believe that environmentally friendly solutions will attract a new generation of high-tech products and services, increase european competitiveness and create new, highly skilled jobs. i believe that member states should provide incentives to businesses, in particular smes, to encourage investment in private sector research and development activities.
in writing. − the eu has developed a number of instruments geared towards green innovation and entrepreneurship. through the eu's competitiveness and innovation framework programme, €433 million is available to promote eco-innovation. currently, almost eur 200 million has been allocated to support first-time commercial application projects in the field of eco-innovation, to meet the needs of the commercial sector. eco-innovation creates clear opportunities for new niche businesses, giving smes, start-ups, freelancers and entrepreneurs the chance to benefit from new business models, and revitalizes traditional economic sectors, giving them the opportunity to further green existing jobs by adapting them to sustainable and resource-efficient production and working methods. member states should provide incentives to enterprises, in particular smes, to encourage investment in private research and development. member states should also, in order to ensure a socially responsible transition to high-quality green jobs, use the resources provided by the european social fund for training, qualification and retraining programmes as soon as possible.
in writing. − i believe that market-based environmental policy can become the engine of growth and employment in all sectors of the economy, and i believe that a set of predictable and investment-friendly framework conditions is the basis that will enable innovative companies to take full advantage of these opportunities, for the benefit of the environment and workers.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on 'eco-innovation - jobs and growth through environmental policy'. eco-innovation creates opportunities for new niche businesses, giving small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), new businesses, freelancers and entrepreneurs the chance to benefit from new business models. eco-innovation also revitalises traditional economic sectors, giving them the opportunity to green existing jobs by adapting them to sustainable and resource-efficient production and working methods. we call for stronger links between fundamental research and industrial innovation and between innovation and the production process. i support the need for member states to provide incentives to businesses, in particular smes, to encourage investment in private sector research and development (r&d) activities. i consider it particularly important to ensure access to appropriate training and skills development in eco-innovation, both to provide employers with a workforce with the necessary qualifications and to equip young people with the necessary knowledge, skills and competences to enable them to access emerging employment opportunities. this will facilitate the transition of workers from declining sectors of activity to new, clean sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because the adoption of delegated acts by the commission allows for the effective implementation of the common commercial policy. often, quick decisions are needed, and the only one who can make them is the commission. of course, parliament's scrutiny must continue and if it finds that rules are being breached, delegated acts must be annulled. the common commercial policy should aim to promote the union's interests globally by stimulating competitiveness and innovation. however, the liberalisation of trade with third countries must be gradual and without shocks to the economies of the member states. opening the markets cannot be done at any cost, especially as we are still in a difficult period. industries that are vital to the union, such as the automotive or food industries, should be protected by granting transitional periods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. today, without a bank account, paying bills or rent and collecting wages is increasingly difficult. the directive will make life easier and better for millions of european citizens, whether they are students or people working abroad. so we are about to lift another obstacle from the path of european free movement. whether it's simplified banking or cheaper cross-border phone calls, european mobility is enhanced. i cannot help but wonder why some countries are trying to build new barriers within the union, when our common goal has always been to remove them. european mobility is a right, it must not become a luxury.
in writing. − i voted for the amendments adopted by the european parliament on the proposal for a directive on the comparability of payment account fees, switching of payment accounts and access to payment accounts with basic functionalities. the smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern, socially inclusive economy increasingly depend on the universal provision of payment services. the proposal for a directive lays down rules on the transparency and comparability of fees charged to consumers for payment accounts held by them within the european union and provided by payment service providers located in the union, as well as rules on the switching of payment accounts within the union. it also defines a framework of rules and conditions under which member states guarantee the right of consumers to open and use payment accounts with basic features in the union. it is important that member states ensure that consumers legally resident in the union are not discriminated against on grounds of nationality or place of residence or any other grounds referred to in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union when applying for or accessing a payment account within the union.
in writing. − i therefore support this report and the sustainable development goals proposed by the commission. they will foster the optimal development of all sea-related activities in a sustainable way. marine and coastal areas and the maritime economy are of major importance to the european union. 200 million eu citizens live and 88 million work in such coastal regions, generating over 40% of the eu's gdp, while 90% of the eu's external trade is transported by sea. it is therefore clear that human and economic activities in these regions and sectors are continuously developing. but this fragile environment needs to be protected and conserved so that future generations can enjoy its beauty and richness.
in writing. − i believe that clear support from member states for these identified strategic areas will provide legal certainty and predictability for investments by public and private actors, which will have a leverage effect on all sectoral policies related to maritime and coastal space.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management. the high and rapidly increasing demand for maritime space for various purposes (such as renewable energy installations, oil and gas exploration and exploitation, maritime navigation and fishing, ecosystem and biodiversity conservation, raw material extraction, tourism and aquaculture installations) and the multiple pressures on coastal resources require an integrated approach to coastal zone planning and management. maritime and coastal activities require that maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal zone management strategies be coordinated, interconnected or integrated, in order to ensure the sustainable use of maritime space and the management of coastal zones, taking into account social, economic and environmental factors and objectives. in order to support the application of this directive in a coordinated manner, resources should be identified at union level from among existing financial instruments to support demonstration programmes and the exchange of good practices in the field of strategies, plans and governance for coastal and space management. in order to achieve cooperation, member states should, where possible, coordinate their maritime spatial planning timetables or review the cycles of existing plans.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it represents a natural step towards legislative alignment with the new status of mayotte, which as of 1 january 2014 ceases to be an overseas territory. however, given the social and economic constraints in the region, we need to consider a set of specific measures to give the population the time needed to adapt to the new conditions. therefore, transitional periods and mechanisms are necessary, in particular as regards the provisions on environmental protection.
in writing. − i voted to amend certain directives in the fields of environment, agriculture, social policy and public health as a result of the change in mayotte's status in relation to the eu. since mayotte will become an outermost region as from 1 january 2014, the legal status of mayotte is amended so that union law applies to mayotte as from 1 january 2014. it is therefore necessary to provide for specific measures justified by the particular structural, social, environmental and economic situation of mayotte. in order to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers at the workplace, consultation with the social partners should be ensured, the risks posed by the derogation should be minimised and the workers concerned should benefit from enhanced health monitoring. it is important to shorten the duration of the derogation as much as possible. national derogating measures should therefore be reviewed annually and withdrawn as soon as the circumstances justifying the derogation no longer exist. as regards the directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, its transposition requires a number of adaptations to ensure continuity of healthcare and patient information.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the european capital of culture is a very effective way of raising awareness among european citizens about the common cultural heritage of the european union. the award of the european capital status to a city has brought many benefits to the local community, improving the quality of life in all its circumstances. continuing the programme was a logical decision and the changes adopted will ensure greater transparency in the selection procedure. a number of administrative deficiencies that could have prevented the submission of an application are also addressed. last but not least, increasing the visibility of this initiative at global level can bring additional benefits.
in writing. − european capitals of culture are successful in many ways: they confer international prestige, motivate authorities to implement sustainable development strategies, help the creative and cultural sectors, stimulate long-term tourism and facilitate the involvement of more categories of citizens in cultural activities. the current stage ends in 2019 and the competition for the title takes place six years before the appointment; therefore, the aim is to adopt a new legal basis as soon as possible to ensure a smooth transition in 2020. the new report refers to the importance of the european dimension in the cultural programme and the need for political support from all parties in the selection phases. the involvement of local civil society is welcome. the city has the opportunity to involve the areas around it and implement a long-term strategy. in the context of the current economic crisis, it is essential to encourage investment in culture and creativity, which can create long-term initiatives.
in writing. − the european capitals of culture programme is one of the most recognised milestones in the european union's history of integration successes and initiatives. i welcome the adoption today of the legal basis that sets out the framework for the six years of preparation leading up to the title and ensures a smooth transition to the implementation of the programme beyond 2020. in the current complex crisis system, it is essential that long-term and well-managed cultural initiatives take place in the european union, despite economic difficulties. in principle, the winner of the european capitals of culture programme (and, indirectly, its neighbourhood) enriches and promotes the living heritage of the community by emphasising the european dimension, the values of the union, in addition to a strong national identity, with a positive attitude, in the spirit of unifying diversity. let's face it, in practice, it's also a reputation and a traffic. it is a value-creating, socially and socially cohesive force that stimulates the development of local sustainable development strategies by mobilising and coordinating the activities of citizens, local authorities and ngos. the concept of common european roots raises cultural awareness and responsibly mobilises the whole of society: it seeks to involve everyone in cultural activities. the 28 years since the creation of the european capitals of culture programme have shown that the title has a strong incentive to strengthen competitiveness in europe's cultural and creative sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to establish a union action in favour of the 'european capital of culture' event for the years 2020 2033. the 'european capital of culture' competition is open exclusively to cities, which may also involve surrounding regions. the maximum number of european capitals of culture in a year shall be three. it is important that the cities holding the title develop links between their cultural and creative sectors on the one hand and sectors such as education, research, the environment, urban development or cultural tourism on the other. it is also important that cities holding the title promote social inclusion and equal opportunities and involve as much as possible all parts of civil society in the preparation and implementation of the cultural programme, paying particular attention to marginalised and disadvantaged groups. the selection criteria should be formulated more explicitly to provide candidate cities with better guidance on the objectives and requirements they need to fulfil in order to obtain the title of 'european capital of culture'. candidate cities should explore the possibility, where appropriate, of having recourse to financial support from union programmes and funds. according to the schedule in the annex, romania will be able to participate in the selection in 2021.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, under the new legal status of mayotte, it is important to harmonise the legislative framework. as regards fisheries, the rules applicable in the region must take account of the objectives of the new common fisheries policy, namely sustainable exploitation, which allows for the sustainable and intelligent use of resources. in this regard, the prohibition of the use of purse seine nets for bluefin tuna and similar species within the 24 mile zone from the island baselines is a necessary measure to protect the sensitive ecological and biological situation in the waters surrounding mayotte. transitional arrangements should also be applied to allow the population to adapt to the new rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations in the field of fisheries and animal health as a result of the change in mayotte's status with regard to the european union. since mayotte will become an outermost region as from 1 january 2014, union law applies to mayotte as from that date. it is therefore necessary to provide for certain specific measures justified by the special structural, social and economic situation of mayotte, characterised by its isolation, insularity, small size, difficult topographical and climatic conditions. it is appropriate to provide for a temporary derogation from the rules on the labelling of fishery products offered for retail sale to the final consumer in mayotte. as regards the regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy, specific measures should be introduced as regards the vessel register and the access regime. in order to protect the sensitive ecological and biological situation in the waters surrounding mayotte and to protect the local economy of mayotte, given its structural, social and economic situation, it is necessary that certain fishing activities in those waters be limited to vessels registered in the ports of that island.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft recommendation because i believe that the application of the generalised system of tariff preferences to certain countries will encourage their economic development on the one hand and stimulate democratic reforms where they are needed on the other. in the context of globalisation, trade relations between the world's states have developed greatly and the union has become one of the world's major players. that is why i support the continuation of the generalised system of preferences for deepening relations with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision of 12 december 2013 not to raise objections to the commission delegated regulation of 30 october 2013 amending annexes i, ii and iv to regulation (eu) no 978/2012 applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences. by offering preferential access to the eu market, the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp) has, since 1971, supported developing countries in their efforts to reduce poverty and promote good governance and sustainable development, helping them to generate additional revenues through international trade. the commission stressed that it is essential that parliament adopt its decision before 16 december 2013, given the need to publish the delegated regulation before 1 january 2014 in order to allow for the reintroduction of myanmar/burma and the inclusion of south sudan in the gsp.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution both as rapporteur of the socialists and democrats in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities on the own-initiative report on the establishment of a european framework for national strategies for the integration of the roma population and, implicitly, of roma women, and as a member of the european parliament who believes that the social integration of this ethnic group is extremely important, is an obligation of all member states facing this problem and can only be achieved through close cooperation and collaboration between the authorities and the roma population. the motion raises a number of important issues and welcomes the commission's initiative to develop an online tool to enable local authorities to understand and enforce the free movement rights of eu citizens; it condemns, however, any attempt to unlawfully restrict the free movement rights of roma and calls on member states to put an end to illegal expulsions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the progress made in the deployment of national roma integration strategies. the situation remains worrying: social and regional inequalities have led to a deterioration in the quality of life for rural communities, and urban poverty has worsened. the commission and the member states must deal firmly and seriously with the high levels of unemployment among the roma and ensure that all obstacles to access to employment are removed. this resolution strongly condemns discrimination against the roma, which undermines the economic and social dynamism of our societies. european roma integration strategies should also include consultation mechanisms to include the voice of local administrations. to have a real impact, they should be implemented with the direct participation of roma. finally, i welcome the fact that this resolution calls on the commission to carry out a necessary periodic external evaluation of the impact of eu funding on roma social inclusion, and to identify good practices and projects implemented with the help of eu funds and to ensure their long-term sustainability.
in writing. − i do not think that anyone at political level is disputing the need for the socio-economic integration of roma, i.e. the need to combat any kind of prejudice towards the roma population, which leads to discriminatory treatment. unfortunately, as has been repeatedly demonstrated, the results of national roma integration policies have not lived up to expectations, and this is reflected in this resolution. the resolution refers to the issue of birth registration for roma. i think this is one of the key points, because it is extremely difficult to work with people who are not administrative. also, to make progress, we need the involvement of everyone, politics, civil society and especially roma representatives, because without the active collaboration of roma integration is difficult, if not impossible. the latter must be made aware of the importance of the integration process and of the opportunities for funding of the different initiatives, either at european level through funds dedicated to roma integration or at national level. i regret that member states are not making the best use of the european funds available at the moment, and therefore i believe that it is useful for the commission to identify good practices, which are then shared with the member states where performance is weakest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 12 december 2013 on the progress made in implementing the national roma integration strategies (nirs). we condemn any kind of discriminatory attitude towards roma, especially incitement to hatred in public and political discourse. we call on the commission and the member states to address the high levels of roma unemployment and to remove all barriers to access to the labour market, including through the use of existing mechanisms such as the youth guarantee and the flagship initiatives under the europe 2020 strategy. we also call on member states to set up anti-discrimination mechanisms, specialised training programmes and programmes to facilitate access to the labour market, including the proportionate representation of roma in public services. we support encouraging self-employment, mobilising assets to create more jobs in sectors with the highest employment potential, such as the inclusive green economy, social and health services and the digital economy, and creating partnerships between public authorities and employers. we call on the commission to establish a timetable and clear and measurable indicators and targets for the implementation of the snir.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution and consider the initialling of the association agreement by the republic of moldova to be a success of the vilnius summit. unfortunately ukraine has taken a step back from the european path due to the irresponsibility of president yanukovych. i want to condemn the use of violence against the protesters in kiev. after all, ukrainian citizens are just asking for the state leaders to listen to them. and their desire is to join the european union and not to go back to russia. i think we need to look at the future of the eastern partnership. there are countries like the republic of moldova, which also want to join the eu politically, but have not yet received a clear prospect of membership.
in writing. − i want to welcome the initialling of association agreements with georgia and moldova, which sets a clear european agenda for these two countries. the commission has to offer the necessary assistance to moldova and georgia in order to help them complete the reform process and sign the association agreements as soon as possible. the eu institutions and member states have to further open up to ukrainian society, which is not responsible for its authorities’ actions. the both sides have to fulfil the conditions to swiftly reach a visa-free movement agreement, strengthen research cooperation, expand youth exchanges and increase the number of scholarships available. the eu should continue its involvement in the energy community, which should result in the full inclusion of ukraine in the eu internal energy market. i strongly condemn the use of brutal force against peaceful demonstrations as well as the alleged threats to introduce a state of emergency and such measures clearly stand against the fundamental principles of freedom of assembly and expression, and are therefore in breach of universal and european values.
in writing. − the vilnius summit gives us at least one reason for optimism, namely the initialling of the eu-republic of moldova and eu-georgia association agreements. these are the result of intense efforts in recent years by both moldova and georgia, which must be recognised as such. i am firmly convinced that the forthcoming signing of the association agreement will strengthen relations between our countries and will have positive effects for the people of both countries and for the eu. unfortunately, the summit was overshadowed by the failure of the ukrainian president to pursue the path of eu association. however, the significant number of ukrainians who have participated and continue to participate in euromaidan demonstrates the aspiration of this people to the eu. for this reason, despite the diplomatic failure, i believe that the eu must continue to be open to ukraine and to put pressure on the kiev authorities through diplomatic channels to respect the freedom of protesters to express their views through peaceful demonstrations. at this moment, ukraine's stability is a priority, and for this it is absolutely essential that the authorities initiate a dialogue with the protesters and do not resort to violence, which does not solve the underlying problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the outcome of the vilnius summit and the future of the eastern partnership, in particular as regards ukraine. we welcome the initialling of the association agreements with georgia and the republic of moldova, which set out clear european agendas for these two countries, and invite the commission to facilitate the implementation of these agreements and to support the authorities of the two countries so that the positive effects and concrete benefits provided for in the agreements can be delivered to citizens as soon as possible. we believe that the outcome and the general context of the vilnius summit underline the need for the eu to develop a more strategic and flexible policy to support the european option of its eastern partners, using all the instruments at its disposal, such as macroeconomic assistance, trade relaxation, projects to strengthen energy security and economic modernisation, and the swift implementation of visa liberalisation, in line with european values and interests. i support the commission's legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 539/2001 with a view to a visa-free travel regime in the schengen area for moldovan citizens holding a biometric passport. i believe that this important measure will facilitate people-to-people contacts and bring moldovan citizens closer to the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution and i would like to welcome the progress made by albania, especially at political level. it is the first time in recent years that a change of government and parliamentary majority has taken place in a quiet manner and in accordance with european standards. i would stress that both in romania and in the other states that have recently joined the union, european integration has enjoyed national political consensus. on the other hand, i encourage albania to continue the fight against corruption and to strengthen the rule of law - absolutely necessary conditions for european integration. more efforts are also needed to strengthen minority rights. i support granting candidate status to albania, but i call on the authorities to recognise the aromani minority as a national minority in order to move forward in the dialogue with the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 progress report on albania. albania has made progress in meeting the 12 key priorities set out in the 2010 commission opinion and the reform process is continuing satisfactorily. we welcome and support the recommendations of the 2013 albania progress report and call on the council to recognise the progress made and to grant albania candidate status. we also call on the albanian authorities and all political forces to consolidate the progress made so far. the albanian government needs to improve its administrative capacity by continuing the reform of the public administration, and the albanian justice system should be fully independent, more predictable, efficient and fair, so that citizens and businesses can have confidence in the judiciary. we stress that special attention should be paid to the protection of children's rights and call for investment in early learning, especially for children from minority or marginalised groups, to prevent exclusion, and for targeted measures to guarantee childcare, nutrition and family support, so as to avoid the transmission of poverty from one generation to the next. we urge the government to develop policies on renewable energy, to deal more effectively with the problem of waste management and to develop environmentally sustainable tourism.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that solving the problems facing the european defence industry must start at the highest level. and the european council can provide the political guidance for greater cooperation in this area. however, one aspect that i consider essential in this policy should not be overlooked, namely the development of the union's defence capabilities. romania has a very important role to play in achieving this goal, following the inauguration of the deveselu missile shield on 28 october. this is a concrete result of the strategic partnership between my country and the united states. the project will provide protection for romania and other countries in the region against possible ballistic missile attacks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparations for the european council meeting (19-20 december 2013). they argue that the intensification of economic cooperation should be accompanied by a mechanism based on incentive measures. we believe that any additional funding or instruments, such as a solidarity mechanism, should be an integral part of the eu budget, but remain outside the ceilings agreed in the multiannual financial framework (mff). i believe that member states should commit to supporting a european defence industrial and technological base (edtib). closer coordination of national defence budget planning (possibly through the establishment of a 'european semester' devoted to defence issues) and closer cooperation across industrial sectors (harmonisation of standards and certification of defence equipment) could lead to a robust edtib. , able to overcome fragmentation and increase the creativity and capacity of european industry sectors. we call for new incentives and support measures for the defence industry, alongside a commitment to the development of key defence technologies and systems (fiscal incentives, financial support for research and development and the institutionalisation of synergies between civilian and military capabilities).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i would like to point out that multilevel governance is not differentiated governance. but the two concepts are often confused, and countries like romania suffer the most. i am in favour of deeper integration, but it must be for all countries and not create a two-speed europe. as regards the possibility of creating an unemployment insurance fund for the euro area countries, i must say that a two-speed europe could be envisaged. basically it would provide a safety net in addition to some states. i know that such a measure can only be implemented after the treaties have been amended, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that these proposals discriminate against the states which have not yet adopted the euro.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the multi-level governance of the european union as it provides a welcome orientation for the union's activities. i believe that the eu must move towards full employment. it will also have to be endowed with a minister of finance and with its own resources. at the same time, the troika must be subject to democratic control.
in writing. − throughout the process of european integration it has been found that differentiated integration is sometimes a necessity for overcoming crises. the recent economic and financial crisis confirms this, and this report could not be more timely. economic and monetary union needs ambitious initiatives, such as banking union or fiscal and budgetary coordination, to work properly. however, it seems to me particularly important that initiatives for deeper integration should be taken within the existing institutional framework and based on the community method. the use of intergovernmental agreements to resolve possible crises is an outdated method that bypasses the democratic control of parliament. differentiated integration can also bring problems for eu unity. this is also reflected at ep level in decisions on the euro area. the creation of a subcommittee on such issues is inappropriate as it would exclude meps from the countries that will join the euro, who represent the general european interest as much as other meps. unfortunately, both opt-outs and differentiated membership of the euro and the schengen area complicate things for citizens, and sometimes differentiation is an obstacle to their rights. if we want citizens to embrace and identify with the european project, it is essential to maintain its coherence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the constitutional problems of a multi-level administration of the european union. we believe that a strengthened budgetary capacity is needed, based on specific own resources and supporting growth and social cohesion in the union budget, aiming at correcting imbalances, structural divergences and financial emergencies that are directly linked to monetary union, without undermining the traditional functions of the union budget to finance common policies. i believe that a balance between employment policy and economic policy is necessary for a positive development of the eu, in accordance with articles 121 and 148 tfeu. the treaties also provide that the promotion of employment and the guarantee of adequate social protection must be taken into account when defining and implementing the union's policies and activities. we call for the establishment of employment and social indicators to complement fiscal and macroeconomic indicators, and for the preparation of reports on the state of structural reforms, in order to ensure an adequate and efficient level of social investment and, therefore, the sustainability of the european social model of a european social union in the long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i too agree that there is sometimes a need for more transparency in the european decision-making process. indeed, the adoption of the 2014-2020 budget was a difficult process and has brought to light various problems in relations between the european institutions. on the one hand, the european council provides the union's general guidelines and plays a very important role in adopting the multiannual budget. on the other hand, parliament represents the will of the citizens and therefore has democratic legitimacy. and with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, parliament's role in adopting the budget has increased greatly. in future, a balance will have to be found that does not delay the adoption of such important acts as the union budget.
in writing. − i believe that the president of the european council and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy should be invited, together with the president of the commission, to participate once a year in a general debate on the internal and external situation of the union.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the european parliament's relations with the institutions representing national governments. we believe that, in the light of the experience gained over these four years, there is a need to improve the working relationship between the european council and the parliament. this could take the form of either a joint statement, an interinstitutional agreement or an exchange of letters. we call for parliament to be involved in good time whenever the european council initiates an action plan or a procedure likely to include a legislative dimension, in order to decide in cooperation with parliament in a form appropriate to each case. i argue that the president of parliament should participate fully in european council meetings when interinstitutional matters are being discussed. the european parliament and the european council would adapt their rules of procedure accordingly, to specify the election of their representatives and the manner in which they obtain a negotiating mandate and report on the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because we are all witnessing the dramatic change in the european landscape. whether we're talking about intensive land use and urban development or road and energy infrastructure, natural habitats and biodiversity are inevitably suffering. that is why i believe that green infrastructure is a potential solution to these problems. moreover, we're talking about investments that benefit the environment, the economy, and create new jobs. green infrastructure is also a desirable for romania which has a rich heritage of rare habitats and species that need adequate protection. that's why i think it's essential to provide solutions that work for nature, not to support initiatives that work against it. this will help to reduce the negative impact of grey infrastructure development on biodiversity.
in writing. − i believe that the development of eco-infrastructures must be supported by sound data and in-depth knowledge, and i encourage the commission, in collaboration with the european environment agency, member states and other stakeholders, to ensure that the union strengthens its capacity for mapping and evaluating ecosystems and associated ecosystem services and that this information and knowledge is taken into account appropriately, including in the planning and implementation of eu co-funded projects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on green infrastructure exploiting europe's natural capital. green infrastructure can play a particularly important role in cities, where an increasing proportion of the population now lives. they can provide services such as air filtration, temperature control and mitigation of 'heat island' effects, recreation areas, flood protection, rainwater collection and flood prevention, groundwater repair, restoring or halting biodiversity loss, mitigating extreme weather events and their effects, improving citizens' health and improving the overall quality of life, including by providing accessible and affordable areas for physical activities. i believe that investing in green infrastructure is also an investment in public health. also, reducing risks associated with natural disasters such as floods or forest fires is a positive outcome of creating or rebuilding ecological infrastructures, such as natural floodplains, forested areas, wetlands, etc., which can increase resilience to disasters and contribute to adaptation to climate change, significantly reducing the costs imposed on society. i support the development of a strategy to set priorities for green infrastructure projects in europe and believe that more cross-border interregional strategies and projects are needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and believe that a low inflation environment is the best contribution monetary policy can make to creating favourable conditions for growth. that is why i welcome the decisions taken by the european central bank in 2012. they have been instrumental in stabilising the banking sector and breaking the link between banks and the public sector. i cannot fail to note, however, that the effects of the crisis and unfavourable economic conditions are still problems with serious repercussions on eu growth and recovery. in addition, the demand for liquidity from the banking system has increased, which means that the degree of dependence of the banking system on the intervention of the central bank is increasing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the work of the european central bank because i believe that the ecb must use direct measures, such as capital injections or spending programmes, to stimulate economic growth in the european union. the bank should also consider supporting small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report of the european central bank for 2012. i believe that in order to reduce risks, improve the stability of the banking system and avoid the emergence of 'too big to fail' institutions, the possibility of a complete separation of investment banks from deposit banks could be considered. i believe that the 'troika' should be replaced by a system in which the commission, accountable to the european parliament, is placed at the centre of the mechanism with the programme countries, the eurogroup is included in the decision-making process, the ecb provides expertise and the imf makes recommendations when necessary. the european parliament is concerned about the transfer of risk from distressed banks and governments to the ecb's balance sheet as a result of the ecb's decision to buy 'unlimited' amounts of short-term government debt. the long-term refinancing operations (ltros) do not provide a fundamental solution to the crisis. we consider that, while they have ensured a healthy easing of tensions in distressed financial markets, the monetary policy instruments used by the ecb since the beginning of the crisis have demonstrated their limits in terms of their ability to stimulate growth and improve the labour market situation. we ask the ecb to consider other measures.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because the union continues to lose €1 trillion a year to tax fraud. we are talking about a fight that must be waged first at national level, and then consolidated at european level. romania loses 54 million euros every day because of tax evasion. moreover, the underground economy accounts for almost 30% of gdp. if my country were to collect all its taxes and duties, it would have a budget revenue as a percentage of gdp above the european average. but the ponta government's fiscal policies are paradoxical: taxes and fees are rising while budget revenues are falling. furthermore, i wonder what we can expect from a prime minister who declares that a fundamental institution of the rule of law, the constitutional court, supports tax evasion.
in writing. − fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance at european level is undoubtedly and rightfully among parliamentʼs top priorities. in the last few months, we have adopted several reports on this issue, including the report on the fight against fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, the report on a common system of value added tax and a quick reaction mechanism against vat fraud or even the report on the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation adopted yesterday. tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance cost european taxpayers around eur 1 trillion every year and this is only an estimate. it is time to act and tackle this issue in a comprehensive, consistent and concerted manner. tax base harmonisation between member states is the best way to avoid tax avoidance. however until this is achieved and implemented in practice, better coordination and cooperation among member states would already produce substantial improvements. in this respect, a commission study developing indicators for measuring tax fraud and tax avoidance would be a good basis for further strengthening coordination and cooperation between all 28 member states. at the end of the day, no member state can benefit from fiscal dumping.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 12 december 2013 on a call for a measurable and binding commitment to combat tax fraud and tax evasion in the eu. an estimated eur 1 trillion of potential tax revenues is lost annually to tax fraud and evasion in the eu. the scale of tax fraud and evasion undermines citizens' confidence in the fairness and legitimacy of public administrations and their tax systems. i believe that any revenue gains would give member states a better chance to balance their budgets and increase their disposable income to promote investment, growth and employment, which are crucial factors in a sustainable eu exit strategy. we call on the commission to introduce a set of concrete targets for reducing tax harm at european and national level, with the main objective of reducing tax harm by 2020. we propose that these objectives be included in the europe 2020 strategy, where appropriate, and we invite the commission to examine whether they could be given a clear role in the european semester.
author. - mr president, this is the third time this year that we have discussed the central african republic. this time it is in response to the new dynamic of violence and religious clashes, which are now commonplace. i would also like to stress that, as we all know, france is here - it is not europe, as some people say, but france. europe has certainly given its support in recent days, because 50 million euros have been allocated to support operation misma and the union is also supporting the creation of a humanitarian airlift between douala and bangui. my colleague, véronique de keyser, is right to point out that commissioner georgieva has been raising the issue for a long time. i think it will have to act now because we are clearly heading towards a serious humanitarian crisis, worse than we could have imagined a few weeks ago.
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs vergiat, i understand that you do not agree with the intervention. but what's your alternative? if the intervention is not good, what is your very concrete alternative to it? what would you have done in those circumstances?
finally, after an inexplicable delay of eight months, the un security council unanimously adopted the resolution legitimizing international involvement to prevent the destruction of the central african state and the worsening of the humanitarian crisis. over 1.3 million people, including hundreds of thousands of refugees, suffer from insecurity and hunger. therefore, the highest priorities are the protection of civilians and emergency food aid. we regret the loss of life and believe that the european union must contribute to ensuring the protection and security of the population. for international intervention to have the desired effect, the mandate of the peace operation needs to be strengthened with a political component, in order to ensure a peaceful transition and the holding of free elections. the commission has also been informed that the séléka have been involved in the illegal 'crime against humanity' in the country since the beginning of the year. is there a possibility of repeating ... (the president interrupted the speaker.)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in china the removal of organs from donors without prior and free consent is happening today in front of our eyes. chinese doctors have testified in this parliament and before the us congress that they have harvested organs from live people. international reports show that, of 100 000 organ transplants in china in the last 10 years, more than half have come from falun gong. since 1999 the chinese government party has sent hundreds of thousands of practitioners to their death. the government launched a nationwide persecution to eradicate the traditional and peaceful spiritual practice of falun gong. this follows the principles of truth, compassion and tolerance. in china, organ harvesting has become basically a booming business. for kidney and liver transplants, the waiting time in europe is several years. in china it is one to four weeks. this shows that china has a huge bank of living people from whom organs can be removed at any time. we must save innocent people from being killed in china at any time for their organs. the eu must impose sanctions on … (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – i want to support the need for full reconciliation in sri lanka and i believe the european union is fully behind the government of that country when it wants to bring its citizens back together. i welcome the efforts made on reconstruction and the commission established in august this year, as well as the successful first round of elections taking place in the northern provinces. i believe the resolution by the alde group should be seen as a step forward and as support for the post-conflict reconstruction phase. no one has the right to give any ultimatums or warnings to a government that is trying its best to get a war-torn country back on track, but we appreciate the need for actions being undertaken to address many of the issues left behind by the war. either way, the way forward for a prosperous and peaceful sri lanka is through fully implementing reconciliatory measures, promoting human rights and personal liberties and ensuring there are no further recriminations and tensions within the various ethnicities and religious minorities in the country.
in writing. – the current rsp on the situation in sri lanka proves once more the double standards of developed states towards the less developed ones. it is a demonstration of the prevalence of concealed interests, a rush to forward hidden political agendas rather than to offer support to a country in difficulty. by scolding sri lanka for not completely eradicating its historical problems and by setting impending deadlines for it to do so, we are condemning its efforts and we are undermining its ability to ever surpass its difficulties. by pressurising sri lanka, we oversimplify and even disrupt the process of post-conflict reconciliation (which is in fact a lengthy procedure that could last over several generations) and we send misleading messages which delay the already ongoing developments in the country. we must acknowledge the progress accomplished so far, as this represents essential proof that sri lanka is striving to improve the human rights situation, freedom of press, the integration of idps and the overall welfare of its population, among other matters. all these reforms must be further encouraged and the eu must offer support and not criticism.
