i am very pleased that we are discussing the situation of young people in europe again today. unfortunately, we're having this discussion because she's still the way she is, and it's a big problem. i am very pleased that commissioner andor has presented the commission's proposal for a youth guarantee or youth guarantee strategy. i am personally pleased that it was the initiative of the socialists and the party of european socialists that led, perhaps, to the commission taking inspiration from it, and i think that it is precisely the provision of support for young people, which commissioner andor has presented and which this proposal actually presents, to obtain further education or to obtain some kind of training, some kind of experience, or perhaps a job, that is certainly the way out of the problem we have today. we must realise as the european union that really investing in young people is an investment in the future, and such a programme at european level really provides us with funding that the member states unfortunately do not have. we know from our calculations that it would take eur 10 billion to provide 2 million jobs, which is, given the unemployment of the young people in question, which is about 5 and a half million, so we would need some eur 30 billion to provide jobs for these young people. and i think that when we invest in young people, they really pay us back, and i hope, and i think that the european parliament will certainly help the european commission in presenting these further proposals.
i do not want to question the european commission's initiative to promote job creation for young people. however, from my own experience in my own country, i would like to point out one particular aspect which also leads to youth unemployment. despite the difficult times, my country is experiencing some economic growth. several automotive and electronics companies are looking for workers to expand production. our young people, despite being about 25% unemployed, are not applying for this job. they cannot apply for this job because they have chosen the wrong education. most young people choose to study humanities, which really doesn't allow them to be employed in industrial production. the problem may also be that the supply of study courses in a country does not correspond to the needs of the labour market.
for the efd group. i would like to begin by welcoming the fact that, after extensive discussions on support for regions, rural areas, islands and sparsely populated areas, the european parliament is now finally tackling the issue of supporting the development of cities, which represent the greatest potential for employment, production and economic growth in europe. in the past, our cities have been established and developed as either administrative or commercial or industrial centers of their immediate surroundings. however, today, dynamic technological and social developments are fundamentally changing the requirements of the population for the functioning of cities and urban agglomerations. it is therefore necessary to create the organisational and material conditions for the effective reorganisation and revitalisation of the urban environment in order to meet the current needs of the population. this means counting on functional conversions of buildings, improvements in their energy efficiency, improvements in the transport services of cities and investments in the elimination of pollution and noise. the urban policy, if properly implemented, will benefit some 80% of the union's population and therefore i think this area should be treated very seriously.
in writing. other territorial cohesion is recognised by the treaty of lisbon as one of the fundamental objectives of the european union. cohesion policy aims to reduce disparities between eu regions by strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. it has so far been successful in promoting european integration through social and economic development. despite progress towards convergence, there are still increasing disparities between eu regions. the territorial dimension gives regions the chance to use their own territorial competences in their work towards the objectives of cohesion policy. there are several possible ways of strengthening the role of territorial development. effective cooperation is needed at all stages of the planning, development and implementation of european support programmes, including at european, national, regional and local level. in order to increase efficiency, enhanced coordination between support programmes should be encouraged. a framework for integrated local development should be provided for community-led local development, joint action plans and integrated territorial investments. it is positive that the rapporteur has given examples of the successful use of the instruments in the previous aid period. the proposals set out the means by which european support can be integrated, with the european commission determining the way in which it is implemented. it is important to maintain a balance between control and efficiency of the use of funds and to reduce the administrative burden of implementation.
in writing. european energy policy is one of the key sectors of the european economy. the structural funds and the cohesion fund are of particular importance in relation to the achievement of short-term and long-term objectives. this is in line with the principle of solidarity between member states, as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and in line with the policy to combat energy poverty in the less developed regions of the european union and in the most vulnerable households. the funding of the above funds has never been easy. it is therefore necessary to simplify those rules and procedures, to remove red tape and to increase the flexibility in allocating those funds at both union and national level. simplification will contribute to more efficient allocation of funds, fewer errors and shorter payment times and will enable poorer member states and regions to make full use of these financial instruments. a distinction should be made between the cohesion policy objectives contributing to the europe 2020 strategy and the broader eu energy policy objectives. i agree with my colleagues that the specific interests of member states or regions should be taken into account, but this should be in line with our strategies and our ability to meet current and future challenges.
plant varieties bred by generations of indigenous communities, as well as traditional knowledge of the action and effects of substances, become the objects of patent protection of intellectual property of companies in the pharmaceutical, cosmetics and agricultural sectors. for example, bio-pirates patent genetic resources, such as medicinal plants obtained from indigenous people in developing countries, or alleged discoveries based on generational traditions. the huge profits from the exploitation of these genetic resources and patented traditional knowledge remain in the hands of the biopirates, and their originators have no benefit from the industrial exploitation of these things. therefore, i think it is right to demand that the agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights be adapted to comply with the convention on biological diversity and the nagoya protocol. only then can we prevent the rampant speculative exploitation of genetic resources and traditional knowledge for the generation of illicit profits.
in writing. cyprus took over the presidency at a difficult time, not only in view of the ongoing crisis and unfavourable situation, but also in the context of strained relations with ankara. the lack of respect for the cypriot presidency by turkey was disappointing. if turkey does not respect eu decisions, it cannot expect any compromises. cyprus has suffered recently not only from the eurozone crisis but also from greece. cyprus has thus not only had to take responsibility for the resolution of the euro area crisis, but is itself facing a very difficult economic situation. the difficult asylum situation should not be forgotten, in the context of the events in north africa and the subsequent large-scale wave of immigration to europe. despite the obvious difficulties, cyprus wanted to help the union achieve its most important objectives. his presidential agenda was rather modest, even given the small size and complex diplomatic situation. the island focused on a limited number of priorities, but those that were more relevant. the biggest of these was progress in the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, the eu's long-term budget for 2014-2020. the budget is at the heart of the eu's medium-term priorities of accelerating economic growth, creating jobs and improving competitiveness, so it was the highlight of the agenda. however, the expectation of a final agreement on the new budget during his term of office was unrealistic.
i supported the report, although i regret that it does not mention the most important reason for the restoration of cities, which is family and intergenerational justice. housing policy is an important part of family policy. for families with children, larger housing units in city centres are often too expensive. urban development and family policy thus meet in a political vision oriented towards the future. unfortunately, sometimes that's not enough. however, support for urban centres should not lead to the neglect of rural areas. rural families are already suffering from the unbalanced reforms of the european union's agricultural policy. in many regions of europe, entire villages are dying. this should not be the aim or the result of a cohesion policy geared to cities.
cities have historically been the driving forces of the economy, production and employment. they offer excellent conditions for education, science and technology, culture and innovation. alongside the positive aspects of the city, they are agglomerations where problems such as unemployment, crime, discrimination and poverty are concentrated. i therefore support the report and expect its implementation to contribute to the rehabilitation of cities and economies and of the entire infrastructure in them. the creation of an attractive urban location can stimulate the economy, mobilise cultural and infrastructure resources, but above all contribute to urban solidarity, social inclusion and the integration of vulnerable and marginalised groups in urban areas. in urban areas, i therefore stress the imperative to involve rural areas in this process and to link them to the needs of urban areas in order to promote a non-conflict synergistic relationship.
in writing. − more than two thirds of europe's population live in urban areas. the urban environment provides excellent conditions for science and technology, culture and innovation. on the other hand, it is cities that are also the focus of aggravated problems such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty. the european institutions must therefore provide new incentives and appropriate tools to help design the cities of the future. at the same time, cities must play an active role in the formulation and implementation of european policies and measures that have an immediate impact on the development of their territories. it will be the development of our cities that will determine the future of economic, social and territorial development.
in writing. − european cities, where about 80% of europe's citizens now live, have become economic centres where production, employment, technological development and innovation are concentrated. population concentration brings with it specific economic, social and environmental challenges, which we can respond to with appropriate cohesion policy instruments, thus contributing to a faster resolution of the most pressing problems of cities and their inhabitants. such problems clearly include social exclusion, environmental pollution, energy inefficiency, unemployment and the management of migration flows. i believe that a new approach to urban development based on a better understanding of the economic, social and environmental needs of the population is needed, and this should be reflected in spatial planning and subsequent project adoption. from a long-term health and environmental perspective, cities clearly need sufficient green public spaces for sport and leisure activities, while also combating excessive traffic pollution and noise. i also agree with the idea that rural areas should be included in the comprehensive solution and that their needs should be linked to those of urban areas in order to create a mutually beneficial synergy.
in writing. − as also mentioned in mr vaughn's report, it is important to strengthen existing urban-rural links and to encourage the creation of new ones. more than two thirds of the european union's population live in urban areas. cities are places where problems arise, but also places where solutions can be found. the urban environment provides excellent conditions for science and technology, culture and innovation. the european institutions must therefore provide new incentives and appropriate tools to help design the cities of the future. promoting the regeneration and regeneration of cities, which are sources of wealth and opportunity, is one of the main challenges the european union must address by strengthening the link between cities and development and between urban centres and the surrounding area. the european model of sustainable urban development is under threat. demographic changes are often the cause of serious problems such as population ageing, population decline or a significant outflow of people to the suburbs, which manifests itself differently in different cities. the effectiveness of the eu's most important policies therefore depends on the effectiveness of urban development policy and its contribution to growth.
for countries like slovakia, cohesion policy is key. however, we are also facing problems in the use of the resources allocated. the need to increase efficiency in the use of these resources often results in a further increase in bureaucracy, which further hinders the absorption of funds. my country needs these funds for its development. i am very pleased that the report by mr vaughan mentions these problems and seeks to find solutions. i think the positive examples he mentions should inspire reflection on how cohesion policy can be made more effective. true european unity is possible only if we eliminate the often profound differences between the new and the old member states.
in the current economic and financial crisis, funding for cohesion policy for european regions is even more important. the differences between eu regions still exist and continue to widen. the cohesion policy budget must therefore also bring about economic and social recovery in all regions of the european union. cohesion policy funding must be simplified, made more efficient, so that citizens can benefit from european funding. the involvement of local and regional authorities in every phase of the planning, development and implementation of european programmes for regional needs must be a priority. the territorial dimension must bring more cooperation for regional authorities, business entities, educational institutions, the third sector, but also cross-border cooperation. cohesion policy in the context of territorial development will also contribute to the creation of new job opportunities. that is why i support the report.
in writing. − this own-initiative report aims to find effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between the european funding programmes included in the commission's common strategic framework. the integration of the implementation of funding programmes will increase the efficiency of european funding at local and regional level. this document provides examples of mechanisms currently in place or under consideration for use in european regions. employment and social policies are important for sustainable and socially balanced territorial development and make a significant contribution to reducing regional disparities and improving the well-being of all citizens, while providing equal opportunities for all citizens.
in writing. − there is a need to establish effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between the european funding programmes included in the commission's common strategic framework. the integration of funding programmes can increase the efficiency of funding at local and regional level. the cohesion policy package for 2014-2020 includes 5 funds. regional development, the social fund, the cohesion fund, the agricultural fund for rural development and the fisheries fund. if territorial cohesion is linked to economic and social cohesion through these funds, there is an increasing need for greater involvement of the regions and a bottom-up approach to mobilising the potential of local and regional development. i supported that line.
in writing. − the eu's territorial diversity brings many benefits to the development of the union as a whole, as long as it is carried out in the spirit of territorial cohesion, which is recognised in the lisbon treaty as one of the eu's fundamental objectives. however, despite the progress made in convergence, the differences between eu regions persist and even widen. regions need to invest in economic and social recovery in response to the economic crisis now more than ever. a strong and adequately funded cohesion policy remains a prerequisite for the economic strengthening of the union. i therefore join the call for the budget for cohesion policy in the next multiannual financial framework to be maintained at at least the current level. the available resources must, of course, be effectively linked to sectoral policies in accordance with the principle of synergy. the development of cooperation between urban and rural areas will, for example, lead to the creation of integrated geographical aggregates that will respond comprehensively to social challenges such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, but also to many environmental challenges. i would like to highlight the european grouping of territorial cooperation as one of the tools with a high potential to increase the effectiveness of territorial strategies of several regions and, moreover, to contribute to the exchange of best practices.
in writing. − mr vaughan's report focuses on finding effective mechanisms to create synergies between the european funding programmes included in the commission's common strategic framework. the integration of the implementation of funding programmes will increase the efficiency of european funding at local and regional level. the cohesion policy package 2014-2020, presented by the commission in october last year, includes common provisions for all five funds included in the common provisions regulation: the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. i agree with the rapporteur and also welcome the new tools to improve the local dimension of cohesion policy. this update will be able to present a better coordinated approach at all levels of government. it is also necessary to highlight the joint action plans which ensure that groups of projects can be financed by several operational programmes. they can also effectively help to achieve a balanced integration of young people into the labour market.
slovakia has applied for assistance from the solidarity fund twice so far. the first case concerned the liquidation of the consequences of a windstorm in the high tatras, which had caused enormous damage to the territory of a protected nature park. the second time was a joint request from several countries in relation to the floods in 2010. based on this experience, i also share the view that the conditions for activating the solidarity fund need to be revised. the effectiveness of aid depends directly on the ability to react quickly, clearly and targeted. this is a lesson europe has learned in providing humanitarian aid in crisis areas of the world, and it would be good if we applied it at home.
it is positive that the principle of solidarity has been successfully applied for ten years through the solidarity fund. each of us has experienced in our own country a situation where natural disasters have affected a large area and the feelings of helplessness of the people living in the affected areas cannot be described. after devastating fires, earthquakes, or floods, people look to the rescue services. speed of response is paramount to people in such distressing situations. i therefore support the commission's view that the fund should be made more effective by reducing the time between the disaster and the granting of aid. it is also necessary to remove the complex administration and to establish clear criteria for the allocation of the solidarity fund. the solidarity fund should remain outside the union budget in the future as natural disasters cannot be foreseen in advance and the possibility of paying advances to the most affected regions should also be considered.
in writing. − disasters are occurring more frequently and with greater severity in european regions. they have a huge impact on the way of life and socioeconomic conditions in the affected regions. the european union solidarity fund has proven to be one of the union's most successful and well-received instruments, as it is one of the few instruments we have at our disposal to show our solidarity and closeness to european citizens. however, since its inception, no changes have been made to the regulation governing this issue. however, the current rules are not sufficiently clear. doubts prevail as to the possible eligibility in the case of disasters for which applications are submitted, in particular of a regional type. the current wording of the regulation is ambiguous and thus gives false hopes to citizens in the member states who request assistance. our citizens rightly expect decisive action from the union.
in writing. − if you have following the devastating floods in central europe in 2002, the union set up a new facility solidarity fund to provide rapid aid. since its creation until september 2012, the solidarity fund has provided compensation for 49 natural disasters. during the existence of the fund, no changes were made to its rules to respond to specific experience of its application. the number of applications is constantly increasing, expectations are high, the resources of the fund are insufficient and the wording of the rules is proving to be ambiguous. it is therefore necessary to review the current fund-bound regulation in the context of the new financial period 2014 to 2020. the aim will be to simplify procedures and to define clearer, more precise and more transparent rules. i supported that intention.
in writing. − the european union created the european union solidarity fund in response to the devastating floods in central europe in 2002 in order to provide the population affected by the disaster with the necessary assistance. since then, the european union solidarity fund has been the main instrument for demonstrating the union's solidarity by providing significant financial support to member states or regions affected by a major natural or man-made disaster. the aid granted allows public financing to be facilitated in emergency situations. however, the solidarity fund can work better and more efficiently, and i therefore agree with the proposal to review the existing solidarity fund regulation. however, i consider the damage threshold of 1,5% of regional gdp for the purpose of determining the eligibility of a regional disaster to be very high and i call for it to be reassessed in order to avoid serious disappointment for the victims of the disaster if the union were to have to reject the aid out of an insensitive administrative sense.
in writing. − the working document proposes the possibility of drawing up a legislative initiative on the basis of article 298 tfeu to create a single general rule on administrative law, binding on the union institutions, bodies, agencies and offices, focusing on administrative procedure and providing a minimum set of guarantees for citizens and businesses in their dealings with the union administration. this is an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the union while providing citizens and legal entities with clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their dealings with the union administration. in particular, these rules should promote transparency and accountability and increase citizens' trust in the eu administration.
in writing. − the european union's rules and principles on good administration are found in various sources of primary law, case law and secondary legislation. union citizens are thus left in a non-transparent situation which prevents them from exercising their rights effectively and swiftly. the right to good administration is enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and as such has acquired legal binding force as primary legislation. i therefore support the proposal that the commission ensure the consistent protection of this right in the draft regulation on european legislation on administrative procedures in accordance with article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i believe that this regulation, which applies to the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union in their relations with the public, will contribute to guaranteeing the right to good administration through transparent, accountable and independent administration on the basis of european administrative procedural law.
in writing. − restructuring becomes a problem for stakeholders especially at a later stage, most often only when they are considering redundancies. the number of job losses in the third quarter of 2011 was almost double the number of jobs created, and this trend is likely to be further strengthened by the announced major restructuring in strategic areas. for example, in the construction and manufacturing sectors, 6.4 million jobs were lost between 2008 and 2011. restructuring is a europe-wide problem and therefore needs a europe-wide response. national governments are not able to respond adequately. we need european legislation to ensure that if restructuring takes place, it is carried out in a balanced, transparent and fair manner. in times of crisis, we need to provide european citizens and investors with certainty and transparency.
in writing. − restructuring has affected some 4 million workers in the european union over the last decade as a result of economic challenges. in recent years it has become a frequent phenomenon, taking different forms depending on the sector of the economy. restructuring often has unpredictable consequences in the social sphere of the member states, to which we are obliged to respond politically and legally. first of all, i would like to stress that restructuring must not only be economically successful but also socially responsible. the focus must be on addressing the issue of so-called human resources, which are none other than real working and feeling human beings with family and other commitments. as redundancies are closely linked to restructuring, it is necessary to involve employees in the discussion at an early stage so that they can prepare for its consequences. companies should only resort to mass redundancies as a last resort to avoid the degradation of conditions and the decline of entire regions. i believe it is most desirable that companies, in their medium and long-term strategies, focus on promoting new skills and thus facilitate the transition to a more efficient economy. as regards redundancies, we must pay particular attention to vulnerable categories of workers, such as older workers, who often experience age discrimination in practice.
i congratulate my colleague charles tannock on his report. the european union contributes to security and political stability in the horn of africa. we are a major provider of international and humanitarian aid. a sustainable solution to the region's many conflicts can only succeed if it is based on mutual respect. good neighbourly relations must overcome rivalry and traditional feuds. it is also important to start cooperation between states for sustainable development. i was happy to support the report, but at the same time i would like to call on the commission and other institutions to respect the sovereignty of african peoples in cultural and ethical matters. if we do not want our aid to be seen as an attempt at neo-colonization, we must not misuse it to suppress the fundamental values of african cultures.
in writing. − the horn of africa is one of the most food insecure regions in the world, and millions of people living in the area are undernourished and at risk of famine. this geographical area includes countries with the lowest levels of health standards in the world and is also one of the poorest regions in the world with the greatest lack of government. human security and food insecurity are contributing to the urgent humanitarian crises in the region. it is a region where criminal activity, in particular terrorism and piracy, is rife as a result of extreme poverty and poor or inadequate governance. focus on local populations, humanitarian aid and socio-economic development. however, without a responsible and democratic public administration based on the principles of respect for human rights and the rule of law, all efforts are futile.
the more advanced biotechnologies are, the more difficult it is to strike a balance between protecting intellectual property and securing the right to use natural genetic material. if we do not ensure that the work of thousands of scientists and innovators is adequately protected, progress in many key areas, such as the production of medicines, food and new materials, will be slowed down. but if this protection is too extensive, the very existence of people in developing lands will be threatened. progress will be held back by the holders of patents on trivial practices that were used by generations of people before they became intellectual property. what we're trying to do here today is find a middle ground. i would therefore caution against a one-sided approach. if we don't allow for a return on investment in research and development, it hurts everyone.
i supported the report on the development aspects of intellectual property rights in relation to genetic resources because i believe that the protection and preservation of genetic diversity should not be a luxury for any country in the european union, but must be part of every policy. however, the reality is that less developed countries have not yet developed detailed national rules on access to genetic resources and sharing of benefits important to food and agriculture. i therefore support the eu's call to help these countries build the legal and institutional capacity to tackle the issue. i also support the need to clarify and consolidate the legal terminology of intellectual property in relation to genetic resources within a comprehensive system of global governance and to explore the possibilities of broader cooperation between international institutions dealing with intellectual property rights, genetic resources and poverty alleviation.
in writing. − genetic diversity is being lost at an alarming rate, despite its vital importance for human survival. the protection and conservation of genetic diversity is a key element in achieving the millennium development goals. genetic resources are of particular importance for sustainable agriculture and food security. genetic diversity is also one of the most important conditions for the survival of species and the resilience of ecosystems. the loss of genetic diversity, which occurs as part of the process of biodiversity degradation, is therefore a key challenge for humanity. in addition, genetic resources from countries with a high biodiversity contribute significantly to pharmaceutical research and development. however, intellectual property rights have proven to be a major problem in poor countries in terms of access to medicines. intellectual property rights should therefore not prevent their inhabitants from having access to affordable medicines, in particular where those rights relate to genetic resources originating in developing countries.
in writing. − as bio-piracy is not yet legally defined and thus properly repressed, it is very popular in international industrial practice as a highly profitable practice of commercial exploitation of indigenous traditional knowledge and genetic resources without obtaining permission and providing compensation to source countries and their populations. available statistics show that up to three quarters of the world's population use or directly depend on natural traditional medicines. and for the sake of fairness, it should be added that about 50% of synthetic drugs are based on a natural base. moreover, genetic resources are used in various forms in the pharmaceutical industry for research and development, which demonstrates their economic value and their profitability. i would therefore like to stress that intellectual property rights must not prevent patients, especially in developing countries, from accessing medicines. in order to protect biodiversity and intellectual property in relation to genetic resources, i consider it a priority to define the concept of biopiracy clearly and on the basis of comprehensive analyses, so that we can proceed to suppress it. the introduction of mandatory disclosure of the origin of genetic resources during patent proceedings, which would make it possible to verify whether the conditions of informed consent have been met, etc., would also contribute to strengthening protection.
the activities of credit rating agencies have a far-reaching impact on the behaviour of economic and financial operators as well as on the functioning of public institutions, and their regulation may even have a positive impact on the functioning of financial markets. i would just like to recall that in the european parliament we called for a stricter regulatory framework back in 2011 and we pointed out the need to reduce over-reliance on credit rating agencies. ratings should be considered as information to be taken into account, but agencies should not have a special status nor should they automatically influence the activities of economic and financial operators and public institutions. it is unacceptable that the timing and form of the publication of credit ratings should result from unilateral decisions of credit rating agencies. member states must be freed from the dependence on credit ratings. the evaluation shall be linked to clear criteria and methodology. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise the fact that this is the first time that we have a plan to create a european public rating agency. we expect a commission proposal by 2016, commissioner. independent public authorities should also be involved in the rating process. we can no longer continue to delegate this task to the private sector.
in writing. our goal must be to put the credit rating agencies back where they rightfully belong. this means that their ratings should be considered as information to be taken into account. however, the agencies cannot have a special status, nor can they automatically influence the activities of economic and financial operators and public institutions through pro-cyclical effects. the timing and form of the publication of credit ratings must no longer be the result of unilateral decisions by credit rating agencies, even if the information published is neither new nor original, and even less so if it concerns the state and prospects of the public administration.
i would like to start by reminding you that the mutualisation of the debts of the euro area countries will not solve the european union's fundamental problem of loss of competitiveness. the restoration of the union's financial credibility requires, in particular, the achievement of a sustainable balance of payments, sound public finances in its member states and the restoration of economic growth. the continuing pressure from the commission and some member states to push for the issuance of common european stabilisation bonds is seen as an attempt to avoid the consistent implementation of the necessary structural reforms and to continue the policy of moral hazard with the resources of the healthier member states until the complete economic bankruptcy of the entire european union. i am not saying that we should abandon the policy of solidarity and mutual assistance, but we must choose the form so that it is consistent with the legal framework of the european union and does not involve those member states of the union which, by their well-considered economic policies, have a high credit rating and, in the meantime, protect the good name of the union.
the european parliament's draft resolution on public finances in the monetary union for 2011-2012 confirms the deepening economic problems and growing indebtedness of the euro area. however, achieving a sustainable balance of payments, sound public finances and a return to economic growth are the only way out of this situation. expenditure-saving measures are needed to restore financial stability, such as limiting low or questionable return investments, simplifying public administration and reducing its operating costs, and reforming and modernising pension systems to achieve their financial sustainability. on the other hand, measures need to be taken to improve government revenues, preferably by promoting entrepreneurship and employment, such as simplifying rules for setting up new firms, removing unjustified restrictions on regulated professions, improving labour market flexibility, liberalising employment rules, reasonably reducing labour taxation or adapting education to labour market needs. but we must act quickly, because today our citizens are paying a high price for indecision and delay in the necessary reforms, in economic decline and needless political instability.
there is no doubt that it is appropriate to adapt legal standards to the needs of everyday life where necessary. in this respect, the commission's initiative to issue two regulations implementing the state aid modernisation programme is acceptable. the problem, however, is the choice of legal basis that the commission has chosen when it has bypassed the european parliament in preparing these proposals. the amendment of the 1999 procedural regulation no 659 also concerns the conditions for the review of the decisions of elected local and national authorities and, under article 15 of the framework agreement between parliament and the commission, the european parliament should also be involved in the preparation of that text. therefore, the procedure chosen by the commission seems to me to be incorrect and i would recommend that in the future, in order to achieve a better result, the commission should opt for the co-decision method with the european parliament in such cases.
this parliament has already taken some major steps to reduce public sector debt and we talk a lot about the need to kick-start economic growth and reduce unemployment. the irish experience of recent years can play an important and above all positive role in this. one dimension of this experience must not be overlooked. since the crisis erupted, maternity wards in ireland have been bursting at the seams. in 2009, the country recorded its highest birth rate in 118 years. eurostat forecasts that ireland's population will increase by a quarter over the next 25 years, while the average population growth for the european union as a whole is expected to be 4%. ireland is a country of trust and hope, mr president-in-office. the irish presidency can offer more than just effective coordination of a complex european decision-making process. it can offer a vision of how to use the crisis to overcome or at least delay the demographic winter. because history and the present give ireland the right to promote a family perspective in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending the calendar of parliamentary sittings for 2013. but i personally think that if all the countries are saving and the people of the eu are having to cut back day by day, the council should consider allowing the ep to meet in one place only for a transitional period. but at the same time, we must not forget the historical fact that france and the city of strasbourg is the seat of the ep. just a month ago, the eu received the nobel peace prize. strasbourg is a symbol of peace and reconciliation between states. we must preserve this idea for future generations.
in writing. − the general government debt-to-gdp ratio increased in the euro area from 86.2% in the first quarter of 2011 to 88.2% in the first quarter of 2012. the economic, financial and banking crises persist and highlight the fact that public finance issues have a negative impact on social and economic development and political stability. the recent reforms of the framework for the management of the european union's economic and budgetary affairs cannot, by themselves, solve the crisis. comprehensive measures are necessary to redress excessive macroeconomic imbalances in a symmetrical manner and to increase the level of overall social and economic convergence and solidarity within the framework of economic and monetary union. while significant steps have already been taken in individual eu member states to consolidate public finances, many other challenges still need to be addressed in order to improve the situation.
in writing. − the economic, financial and banking crisis is not abating, despite the fact that significant steps have been taken in eu countries to consolidate public finances. the implementation of growth-enhancing strategies often runs counter to real possibilities, focusing on the need to save by cutting jobs, reducing wages, social security pensions and so on. this is underscored by the fact that today 7.5 million young people under 25 start their day without the possibility of going to work. it is necessary to consider raising the actual retirement age, because the social resources that would have been theirs as pensioners are now being paid to young people in unemployment, with young people losing their work habits completely until they are in a position to apply themselves in life. so we should be fully committed and use all our resources to tackle tax discipline, tax evasion in tax havens and tackle the grey economy at every turn, while not forgetting the other resources that are in capital gains, excise duties, pollution taxes and property taxes.
experience has shown how damaging the faulty rating of agencies can be if it becomes the sole basis for investment decisions. the proposal for this regulation does not aim to protect private investors, because in an economy based on free choice, there is a need to leave room for actors to make good and bad decisions. however, i must say that the rapporteur's proposal to ban unsolicited sovereign ratings goes beyond this objective. independent sovereign ratings are necessary, otherwise sovereign debt risks becoming a problem only at the moment of imminent bankruptcy.
in writing. − if you have the activities of credit rating agencies have a far-reaching impact on the behaviour of economic and financial operators and on the functioning of public institutions. their regulation will have a significant impact on the functioning of financial markets. the proposal imposes new transparency obligations on credit rating agencies, in particular with regard to the human resources used in issuing credit ratings. it is necessary to ensure a proper balance between the parties involved and to respect the fundamental legal principles. member states must be freed from their reliance on credit ratings. the evaluation must necessarily be linked to clear criteria and methodology.
in writing. − the proposal is part of a package to review eu legislation on credit rating agencies. the directive aims to reduce the reliance on external ratings. credit rating agencies provide outlooks and carry out credit risk research and play an important role in financial markets by providing guidance that is well understood by market participants such as undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and alternative investment funds (aifs). however, ucits and aifs should assess the credit rating agencies' opinions and credit risk separately, thereby indicating their agreement or disagreement with the agencies' opinions. a rating is important for markets but should not be considered as the sole indicator of credit risk.
in writing. − the proposal aims to align regulation no 1098/2007 with the treaty of lisbon. the proposal establishes a multiannual plan for the cod stock in the baltic sea. the technical purpose of this report is important while allowing for changes to the content of the measures.
in writing. − technical conservation measures for fisheries resources are among the most important elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management. the current commission proposal seeks to extend the rules to technical measures for a further transitional period until a regionalised framework for technical measures in line with the common fisheries policy is adopted. in addition to the extension of the current technical measures, the proposed text contains an update of the existing measures based on the stecf advice and the neafc recommendations, as well as measures to reduce discards in the north-east atlantic as agreed with norway and the faroe islands in 2010, which have not yet been transposed into eu legislation. i recognise the need for these measures, which are designed to ensure that fish stocks are fished in a sustainable way and that their ecosystems are preserved. however, these measures must be formulated and designed in the light of the evolving nature of fisheries and scientific advice.
in writing. − according to the interpretation of rule 13 (1) of the rules of procedure provided by the afco committee, where the number of candidates equals the number of vacancies, the president may proceed to the election by acclamation or, alternatively, to the election by secret ballot as provided for in rule 169. in the event of an election by acclamation, the president shall also decide on the order of precedence of the vice-presidents (second subparagraph of rule 15 (2)). concern was expressed that the appointment of this order by the chair might not always receive unanimous support. this situation could be remedied by the possibility for a number of members or a political group to challenge the order of precedence proposed by the president or by the removal of the president's power to determine the order of precedence, which would necessitate a vote.
i support all proposals that lead to improvements in youth employment and education services. i see the council recommendation as a call for the member states to make all the existing instruments that can help young people, and not just in their job search, more effective. but the word "guarantee" makes me feel uncomfortable. it is not right to give the impression that the state can guarantee employment. and perhaps it would not hurt to ask ourselves, instead of 'what can europe do for young people?', the opposite question and ask the younger generation what can it do for europe.
i voted against this report. i consider the introduction of such measures to be ineffective and i think it may even be harmful. i believe that the european union must support young people and their employment. however, it should do so in particular by opening up young people to better education and removing barriers to their application within the union labour market. on the contrary, i regard investing in guarantee schemes such as the youth guarantee as creating the illusion that young people are being helped. such illusions, however, may ultimately prove inadequately expensive. i don't think that's the right course of action that we can afford.
in writing. − in the current economic and employment crisis, the issue of the youth guarantee must be a priority for us. the guarantee should cover all young people under 25 who have been unemployed for four months and recent graduates under 30. it should include a high-quality offer of employment and training. the social partners should also be involved in the process of designing the youth guarantee programmes.
in writing. − as vice-president of the pes, my priority is to work towards the introduction of the youth guarantee. i believe that investing in our youth is investing in our own future. i believe that tackling unemployment through the youth guarantee will guarantee young people a quality job offer, further education or traineeship within 4 months of leaving formal education, which will guarantee the younger generation easier entry into the labour market and better prospects for the future. we must realise that investing in any youth employment programme is clearly more financially beneficial for europe and its member states. each worker contributes to the state budget by paying taxes, and the state is able to save on social benefits. on the other hand, it is clear that in times of crisis individual member states cannot afford to introduce a youth guarantee without the help of the european union. we cannot therefore afford to continue to delay funding growth and jobs in our countries. i therefore hope that the european countries will set clear priorities when they approve the budget for the coming years, and that the fight against youth unemployment will be clearly at the top of their agenda. i welcome the initiative of the european commission to propose a council recommendation on the youth guarantee and i believe that stimulating cooperation between the commission, the member states, the social partners, educational institutions and other actors will ensure the successful implementation of this scheme in the individual member states.
in writing. - i welcome the ep resolution on the youth guarantee scheme, because in my country, slovakia, too, youth unemployment is climbing to 30%. however, i see the easing of the funds as an operational solution to the consequences of the economic crisis. i personally see safeguards for young people in society-wide systemic measures that take into account national requirements. we see that the market cannot solve this, so it is the state that has to guarantee the efficiency of the resources spent by spending on education. we need to go back to models where the requirements of the departments are linked to the resources of public education. active entrepreneurship, microfinance and small employers should be encouraged. in particular, it is necessary to take measures to convert unemployment benefits into remuneration for work performed.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. i think that it is important that the cohesion policy supports the new eu energy priorities in regions. it is also my opinion that such energy projects would greatly contribute to regional development and to the creation of more jobs. in this respect, it is important that more investment goes not just to the centralised energy sources but also to other forms of energy efficiency and energy infrastructure. in order to support such decentralisation, it is crucial that regional authorities play an active role in the development of such projects.
in writing. − i attach great importance to the european union's energy policy. we need to link cohesion policy with the europe 2020 objectives and flagship initiatives in order to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to support the shift towards a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy in all sectors. in order to achieve these short- and long-term objectives, the structural funds and the cohesion fund must not be forgotten, in line with the principle of solidarity between member states enshrined in the treaty of lisbon and in the fight against energy poverty in the eu's less developed regions and in the most vulnerable households.
in writing. − electricity prices have risen sharply in recent years, causing considerable problems for european industry. it is very difficult to say in the context of the report and experience when the condition for our entry into the eu was to close two nuclear power plants in a country which at that time was 50% of the eu average gdp. the power plants have been audited and meet all safety standards, which have been confirmed by an international agency. immediately afterwards, privatisation raised prices by 36% compared to today. there is no report in which we in the ep do not talk about reconciling differences, cohesion policy, solidarity. if the blocks and energy resources remained in the hands of the state, the 36% cheaper electricity would be the brightest stimulus for employment growth and job creation. i want us to be fair here in the ep, and that is why i am pushing for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth that takes into account local specificities and conditions that are best suited to local and regional conditions and resources. and that such decisions by the european authorities are not repeated when a self-sufficient state that could help others is suddenly dependent on imports and the high price of electricity.
mr president, i voted against the report on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds. i think that at this moment it gives too much support to stability bonds, which could put us on the wrong track. i am convinced that it is important to stabilise the european economies, help them to grow and establish guarantees to ensure we do not fall into the same or similar traps as we had before and during the crisis. i think the report, which goes in the direction of stability bonds and mutalisation of debt, can in certain ways lead us back to this trap.
slovakia is one of the poorest countries in the european union. we try to manage our affairs so as not to get too much into debt. we have nevertheless shown solidarity with richer member states that have had fiscal problems. it's costing us billions of euros that we've had to borrow. but we did it because the situation demanded it. but eurobonds are something else. it's a signal to those who are living in debt prosperity that they can continue to do so because others will also be guaranteed for their future debts. it's a tool of irresponsibility and a way to go where there's only weeping and gnashing of teeth. until european countries feel the same responsibility for public budgets and until the standard of living is the same throughout the european union, i cannot and will not vote for the introduction of eurobonds.
in writing. − we need to create effective instruments to combat speculation in public debt. i support the process of strengthening mutual fiscal surveillance and macroeconomic convergence. however, fiscal discipline and austerity measures must in any event be accompanied by a greater degree of solidarity at eu level.
in writing. my fellow citizens, syria is becoming a nightmare of world politics. we can clearly see the strategic error of not intervening when we need to. of course, it's russia and china's fault, and russia will feel the most pain from this mistake. in the chaos that ensues, no russian strategic, tactical or commercial interests will prevail. syria will be in chaos very similar to somalia, and for many years. syria is becoming and will remain a battleground for regional powers and sectarian ideologies. it is and will be the victim of the geopolitics of regional powers, iran, saudi arabia, egypt or turkey. if we do not want this legacy to remain on the eu's shoulders in the future, we must address the situation today. sure, along with the us, but it's an area whose geopolitics directly affect europe, and the consequences of wars in this region have an immediate impact on us. along with the u.s. and on u.n. soil, but with far more energy and ingenuity, as well as deals with russia. it's the only way, and i think russia understands that without it, its interests in the region are not going to be served.
mr president, the partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq, the first contractual relations agreement with this country, is an important step in eu-iraq relations. such an agreement is needed. the recent situation in iraq however shows that certain difficulties might cause it to fail. the stability of the country and the respect and guarantee of fundamental human rights appear to be the major ones. maliki’s government has been heavily criticised, especially over issues related to democracy, respect for human rights and taking institutional control of the country. this has been echoed by rallies and demonstrations. moreover some extreme incidents taking place in the country, which were mentioned here in this debate, provide insight into deeper problems. i would like to mention a particular point, despite opposing views expressed by previous speakers: i think it is completely legitimate for us, the european union, to call on the iraqi government to improve the living conditions of the people who stay in camp liberty by converting it into a fully-fledged refugee camp with all related necessities and also to call on the government to allow the people to use their property. bearing this in mind, i am concerned about signing the agreement at this time. nevertheless, i think that we should be engaged with iraq and have instruments at hand in order to develop relations with the country. at the same time i am glad that the main elements of the agreement include clauses on political dialogue and human rights and also clauses on combating terrorism.
iraq is a country that today seems to have gone through a brutal war, totally decimated by international intervention forces, because of faulty intelligence. some of our member states have had a small part in the destruction of this country. it is therefore a moral duty of the union to help stabilise and develop the economy of iraq today. i therefore expect that the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and iraq will also open up new possibilities for the intervention of union support programmes so that we can participate more effectively in the democratization of that country. promoting the consistent application of human rights, in particular women's rights or the right to freedom of religion, is an important challenge for our greater engagement in a still newly formed, not very stable democratic environment. supporting the development of education as well as the development of health care is a meaningful objective. objectively, however, we must admit that the conditions for the absorption of our initiatives are very difficult in a country which is still rather divided.
in writing. data from the commission on the extent and scale of corruption and the taking of action on the misuse of eu funds are very slow to arrive. if it is true that the estimated 120 billion in losses per year is very alarming. in times of crisis, it's a double whammy. how many investment projects and different types of support at a time of high unemployment could be done for this? let us be clear and do whatever is necessary to eliminate corruption not only from european funds. my government in slovakia is passing a law that will allow public and transparent monitoring of public contracts from inception through execution, payment and quality assessment. this improvement is also a way to look for ways to eliminate corruption.
while i am very sympathetic to the efforts of the european administration to continue its activities to create a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east, i am convinced that the path to this goal will be very difficult. first of all, we would have to work in the middle east towards a lasting peace settlement in that part of the world respected by all the states concerned. we would then have to be able to guarantee the stability of this territorial and political arrangement and to create an atmosphere of cooperation, understanding and trust between countries. i agree that to be passive and resigned to the effort to create such a zone in the most explosive region of the world would be a grave mistake, but to make a realistic assessment of our options and to define incremental partial steps that we could safely take forward would help us to put this effort in a better pragmatic framework. the international conference can certainly be such a step forward, but it must be in the interest not only of us but of all those who will be directly involved in the creation of such a zone.
the south american countries associated to the mercosur customs union are a major trading partner of the european union. as early as 2009, brazilian president josé alencar gomes da silva expressed an interest in formalising significant trade relations with the union through a wider trade agreement. although negotiations on an association agreement between mercosur and the european union have been ongoing since 2010, many areas of mutual cooperation remain unresolved. the aim of our discussions today should therefore be to declare a strong interest in making progress in these negotiations as an impetus for the forthcoming meeting of the ministers of the european union and mercosur in santiago, chile. increasing trade between the 500 million european market and the 300 million mercosur market would certainly help us to eliminate the adverse effects of economic stagnation in europe. the mercosur countries would also benefit from more open and well-regulated cooperation with the union. i hope that our south american friends will eventually adopt a rational and pragmatic approach to the possible improvement of economic cooperation.
in writing. − since 2005, the republic of iraq has held three multiparty elections, adopted a constitution in a referendum, laid the foundations of a federal state, and made efforts to build democratic institutions and achieve reconstruction and normalisation. europe and iraq are linked by thousands of years of mutual cultural influences and shared history. on 21 december 2010, all political forces in iraq agreed to form a government of national unity that would meet the expectations of the iraqi people expressed in the elections held on 7 march 2010. however, this agreement has not yet been implemented by the iraqi government and its insufficient implementation contributes to the instability and fragmentation of iraq. among other things, in order to promote stability in the region, the european union should assume its share of responsibility for building a new, democratic iraq, and the eu's policy towards iraq should take into account the broader context of the union's strategic partnership with the countries of the southern neighbourhood and the middle east. i believe that it is the pca, through its political and trade provisions, that lays the foundations for a regular closer political dialogue on issues of bilateral, regional and global importance, seeking to improve the regimes governing trade between iraq and the eu by supporting iraq's development and reform efforts in order to facilitate its integration into the world economy.
in writing. − if you have on 23 march 2006, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a trade and cooperation agreement with iraq. in the seventh round of eu-iraq negotiations, the two sides agreed to upgrade the draft agreement to a 'partnership and cooperation agreement' by establishing a cooperation council, which meets regularly at ministerial level. it represents the first ever contractual relationship between the eu and iraq and aims to create a solid foundation for strengthening relations between iraq and the eu. it is timely to accompany iraq's transition to democracy in the years ahead, as it is aimed at fulfilling the major tasks of reconstruction and development, restoring the sovereignty of the state and normalising its relations within the international community. a democratic, stable and pluralistic iraq with strong democratic institutions, committed to the socio-economic development of its citizens, will play a major role in the development of the stability of the region, which is crucial for international security. it is therefore necessary to develop a long-term strategic vision that would guide the union's policy towards iraq in the years ahead. i am convinced that the partnership and cooperation agreement clearly demonstrates the eu's commitment to play a significant role in iraq during the transition period, but it is necessary that the union's commitments lead to the mobilisation of human and financial resources that are consistent with political ambition and relevant strategic interests.
in writing. − respect for human rights is a key element of the eu-acp development cooperation agreement. madagascar, mauritius, seychelles and zimbabwe shall provisionally apply the interim agreement from may 2012. the commission sees this interim epa as a prerequisite for a full-fledged epa, which will remain open to other countries wishing to join later. it is important that the european union applies policy coherence across all policy areas, including consistency between trade policy and respect for human rights. indeed, it is hardly right to agree with the eu's policy of signing trade liberalization agreements with zimbabwe and madagascar, despite the eu's sanctions against both countries for human rights violations. i consider it justified to speak out strongly against the aggressive and continuous pressure from the eu and the uncompromising approach towards the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement, which is taking place despite the legitimate concerns of the acp countries and civil society organisations. i believe that this interim agreement does not address the development needs of the countries concerned. it is necessary to revise the economic partnership agreements in such a way that all stakeholders, including trade unions and civil society organisations, are involved in the process as equal partners.
in writing. − if you have in 2000, the acp countries and the eu agreed to conclude new trade agreements compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation in order to replace the unilateral trade preferences regime that the eu applied at that time to imports from the acp countries. these new agreements would build on eu development cooperation to strengthen the institutional and productive capacities of the acp countries and to enhance support for the necessary adaptation processes. as it became clear during 2007 that comprehensive mas would not be concluded with all regions, several temporary mas were concluded in order to minimise any possible disruption to trade with acp partners resulting from the end of the cotonou agreement trade regime, while efforts to achieve comprehensive regional mas continued. while temporary agreements were approved at national level, countries gained duty-free and quota-free access for goods to eu markets through the market access regulation of 1 january 2008. i am convinced that the signing of the interim epa is a necessary step towards achieving sustainable growth in the region and underlines the importance of continuing negotiations with a view to achieving a full-fledged agreement that promotes trade and investment growth and regional integration in the southern and eastern africa region.
i supported the motion for a resolution on the modernisation of state aid because it is essential in order to stimulate economic growth in times of financial and economic crisis. at a time when there are more than 23 million unemployed in the european union and regional disparities are widening, state aid must be geared to supporting job creation. at the same time, it must not distort competition but encourage the transition to a knowledge-based economy. state aid must not be discriminatory towards smes. it must be an element for the modernisation and development of services, knowledge and infrastructure. state aid must have clear rules and block exemptions should no longer be allowed in the new period.
in writing. − the commission has presented proposals for two regulations implementing the state aid modernisation programme, the legal basis of which is article 109 tfeu. however, this legal basis only allows for consultation with parliament, not co-decision. the proposals submitted aim to channel resources to the assessment of more significant aid cases rather than to deal with less serious cases and negligible complaints which do not affect trade between member states. the proposals, and in particular the amendment to procedural regulation (ec) no 659/1999, concern the conditions for commission control of decisions taken by elected national and local authorities. i am of the opinion that state aid must be designed to promote the development of services, knowledge and infrastructure itself, rather than to support specific undertakings. it is important to highlight the importance of the role played by state aid in resolving the crisis through the specific crisis regime. also, the appropriate use and control of state aid will play an important role in meeting the objectives of the eu 2020 growth strategy. these objectives have been set on several occasions in the past and have been the basis for past revisions of state aid legislation, but given that these new proposals are now needed, they do not appear to have been fully met. i therefore hope that we will be able to achieve them in the near future.
in writing. − the use of public funds to support domestic industry and individual companies gives an unfair advantage to the supported enterprises and thus harms competition between enterprises in the internal market of the european union. such adverse effects must be prevented and i therefore welcome the commission's communication on the modernisation of state aid. in my view, state aid must take into account the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and should be directed primarily at strengthening employment and infrastructure. the priority remains to stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the transition to a knowledge-based and greener economy without distorting fair competition between individual businesses in different member states. particular attention should be paid to aligning competition policy with the policy of transforming european agriculture, especially in the field of renewable resources and innovative green solutions. finally, i am disappointed that the treaty of lisbon does not allow the european parliament to take part in the decision-making process on state aid, since this important area affecting the economic interests of the member states should be regulated by law with the active participation of the directly and democratically elected european parliament.
in writing. - bangladesh has some 4 000 textile factories employing over 2 million people, making it the second largest exporter of garments in the world after china. at least 112 people died in the tazreen factory fire in ashulia district, dhaka, bangladesh on 24 november 2012 and 289 people died in a fire in karachi, pakistan in september 2012. an initial investigation at the tazreen factory found that factory managers prevented workers from escaping, and a recommendation was issued to take action against the factory owner for negligence. the chain of intermediaries between the consumer market and the workers is often opaque and does not provide an overview of the chain of responsibility, as large orders of clothing and textile goods are supplied by subcontracting from many producers. many factory owners went unpunished and therefore did little to improve working conditions. i consider it essential that the governments of bangladesh and pakistan continue to thoroughly investigate recent events and bring those responsible for the criminal activity to justice. it is important that these authorities put measures in place to prevent a repeat of the tragedy. i also consider it justified and important that the commission cooperates with local authorities and all stakeholders in the textile supply chains to improve working conditions.
in writing. − the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security, and the most urgent security priorities are to prevent further states from acquiring or using nuclear weapons, to reduce the world stockpile of nuclear weapons and to advance the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones, especially in regions of tension such as the middle east, would strengthen international peace and security and contribute to strengthening the international non-proliferation regime. it is important that this idea be promoted as a priority. the european union, together with all the members of the euro-mediterranean partnership, has committed itself, through the barcelona declaration of 1995, to the objective of promoting the establishment of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the middle east. i express the hope that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone would significantly enhance international peace and stability. at the same time, negotiations on nuclear, chemical and biological weapons should be conducted in parallel with a view to achieving parallel progress in substance and timing in the process leading to the complete elimination of weapons of mass destruction, as called for in the statement of the review conference on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in the middle east. it is therefore important that all countries in the region ratify the chemical weapons convention, the biological weapons convention and the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty.
in writing. − on 21 october 2010, parliament adopted its position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries (hereinafter the 'made in' regulation) at first reading, with 525 votes in favour, 49 against and 44 abstentions. although more than two years have passed, the council has still not adopted a common position. moreover, the commission indicates in its 2013 work programme that, in addition to the council not reaching an agreement, the proposal has become obsolete in view of recent developments in the legal interpretation of wto rules by the appellate body of the organisation. common provisions are necessary to enhance competitiveness among wto member states and to ensure a level playing field with producers in the eu's main partner countries that have introduced designation of origin. the success of the european union's open and fair trade with third countries is linked to compliance with wto rules. for this reason, i believe it is important that the application of a level playing field between eu businesses and their third-country competitors in multilateral trade is maintained and that a uniform approach is applied to ensure consumer protection.
in writing. − the volume of trade between the eu and mercosur is almost the same as the eu's trade with the rest of latin america combined. the union is mercosur's largest trading partner and its largest investor. the eu and mercosur are complementary economies (the eu is the leading market for agricultural exports to mercosur, while exports from the eu to mercosur countries are mainly focused on industrial products and services). these two regions share common values and principles, such as a commitment to respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and democratic principles, as well as common languages. trade is one of the main tools available to politicians to support economic growth and job creation. i consider it necessary to make appropriate efforts to resume the 2010 eu-mercosur trade negotiations and to seek a balanced, fair, ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial agreement in all sectors covered by the agreement. closer cooperation between the eu and mercosur is both justified and important, and i am convinced that a deeper integration of the eu and mercosur economies will be beneficial for both parties.
the appalling cases of gang rape in recent days confirm the thomson reuters foundation's finding that india has the worst conditions for women. the great tolerance of such practices in advanced governments, high governmental judicial, and especially police organizations, probably stems from the fact that many of their representatives, coming mostly from the ruling castes, are not entirely innocent of such behavior either. it would therefore be fair to point out to our indian partners that the country's highest executive and legislative bodies bear a significant part of the responsibility for the continued failure of the repressive and judicial authorities in this matter. they are, after all, fully responsible for setting the rules for the functioning of the company and for the functioning of its management mechanisms. the estimate by indian sociologists that tolerance of violent and discriminatory practices in india results in the deaths of some two million women and girls a year is also a hallmark of their way of governing the country. i'm convinced that if india were to introduce for...
mr president, the gang rape of a 23-year-old student in new delhi last december caused an eruption of rage and demonstrations in india, nepal, sri lanka, pakistan and bangladesh and as far away as canada. the eu and parliament cannot remain silent. india must act now. its justice system against such heinous crimes is toothless. why? for many social, cultural and historic reasons they turn a blind eye towards such crimes. india takes pride in being a fast-growing emerging economy, but it must also deter such crimes through effective justice and severe punishments. otherwise they could become even more widespread, with tragic consequences. with 635 rape cases in delhi alone and only one conviction, india is beginning to resemble mahmoud ahmadinejad’s iran, where the leader publicly denies the presence of gays and lesbians in his country. india can and must do better than that.
in writing. violence against women is most often understood as domestic violence or sexual violence. unfortunately, violence is all-consuming, ranging from harassment to forced marriage. one of the most dramatic forms of violence against women is trafficking in human beings, and let us not be deluded, in europe it is estimated that 600,000 women are trafficked every year. it is important to note that victims are trafficked mainly in sex-parties, but are also trafficked for forced labour, forced marriage, forced begging and even illegal adoption. what is worrying is that the proportion of children, especially girls, is showing an increasing trend. in dealing with this subject, it is striking how often victims are subjected to further victimization, how often they are condemned even by the justice system, because it is easier to condemn than to find and bring to justice the real perpetrator. violence against women not only destroys lives, but also has a huge negative economic impact. the un's efforts to end violence against women are welcome, but it is also expected that member states will ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence and that existing eu legislation will be transposed into domestic law as soon as possible so that perpetrators do not go unpunished.
in writing. i am pleased that this parliament is actively highlighting the need to speak out about violence against women and girls. i strongly support the fight against this type of violence, whether in the form of strengthening criminal laws, improving protection for victims or prevention. i also agree with the rapporteur, mr gustafsson, that european diplomacy should also support those who defend women's rights abroad. i just don't understand why this resolution requires the eu to support lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights defenders too. we're talking about violence against women and girls. and i don't understand what lgbt rights or so-called reproductive rights have to do with it. the only explanation is that it's ideological demagoguery. such a narrow and one-sided view prevents us from recognizing and addressing the real causes of the problem of violence against women.
rapporteur of the committee on regional development, requested for an opinion. − the biggest challenge and the key to success in business is for a business entity to be able to find enough customers. the second most pressing issue in business is access to finance. only four per cent of smes have the resources to run their own business. 56% of enterprises are purely external, twice as many as in 2009, before the crisis hit. if you ask entrepreneurs, they will tell you that to grow a business, profits are essential. but they'll tell you that it's more important that the business has the necessary cash flow, otherwise the for-profit entity may not survive. economic growth, job creation and labour productivity depend on timely funding. in a time of crisis, budgetary constraints and reduced capacity to provide credit in the private sector, cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support for smes. it is the main investment instrument for the convergence and sustainable development of the european union. many member states finance almost 80% of their public investments simply because they can draw on the european union budget. without the cohesion policy of the european union, the engines that help fight the crisis and unemployment would have stopped in many countries. for us, this means: securing the necessary financial resources in the european union budget for cohesion policy, which helps the weakest and least developed regions to survive and to get closer to the stronger ones; continuing to support the simplification of administrative procedures at european, national, regional, local and cross-border level. the aim is to create a simple legal framework and remove obstacles for beneficiaries, in particular smes, when applying for european union funds.
the fact that we all recognise the important role of smes in the economic structure of the european union is also demonstrated by the fact that we periodically return to discussions on how to address the existential problems of smes. while i do not wish to question the importance of the new union support programmes aimed at providing material support to small and medium-sized enterprises, i consider it important to recall less financially costly measures by which we can convince our citizens that small businesses can also be a meaningful way of making a living. i mean, simplified rules for this kind of business, simplified accounting rules, and tax and investment incentive systems that only big companies benefit from. if we create a good and healthy business environment in the union, where even small businesses can generate stable returns, then financial institutions will not be afraid to lend their money to such entrepreneurs.
in writing. 99% of european companies are smes which account for 85% of employment. smes are the driving force of the european economy. however, after the crisis it became clear that smes had become vulnerable. some lenders are too cautious when lending to smes. this varies from one member state to another. new and stricter rules introduced by both the union and national authorities have made it more difficult for smes to access finance. the commission's 'action plan to improve access to finance for smes' proposes good solutions, but there is no single and general solution. the possibility of using structural funds and eib financing for venture capital funds and for future funds with the potential to multiply their price/value ratio. in addition to risk capital, other alternative financing mechanisms are needed. i appreciate the commission's decision to create a wide range of new financial instruments adapted to the needs of smes in the context of the future regulatory cohesion policy. it is useful to suggest that the commission examine how the eu and the member states could promote the mobilisation of savings by the general public, for example by introducing tax incentives.
healthy aging of men and women, what could be more acute? europe is really too old, and we're going to keep moving in that direction. it's important, and i'm glad we're talking about it, to talk about equity, equal access, access to social services, but also access to health services. so it's good that we're talking about medicine and access to medicine in this plenary, and in the older generation. it's simply to add more life to the years, not just more years to the life and to prolong the life, but to make the life quality. it's good to teach people from a young age, in old age, to find, as it were, values that they can go back to and then bring people together, for example, in what we call intergenerational solidarity. it's very important that the elderly, and we have to make sure that they're not just alone, that they have their loved ones with them, but also other people of good will, volunteers, who prevent them from being lonely, because when someone is lonely, then they ask for euthanasia, when they're not lonely, they never even think about it.
the report presented objectively describes the democratic trends in europe that can be expected in the near future. although several governments are preparing or implementing measures to raise the retirement age in their countries, it cannot be expected that the proportion of the unemployed population will not increase. the high degree of urbanisation in europe means that measures for active and healthy ageing must be oriented towards the urban environment. it means for us to protect parks and green spaces in cities so that developers do not, for the sake of quick profit, destroy those spaces where the elderly and children can be stimulated outdoors in an open environment. it also means encouraging the creation of clubs where our peers can meet and actively develop common interests. it also means supporting facilities, homes for seniors who need help from others or need medical care. it also means that the union should consider whether a specific programme should be set up to support the adaptation of cities to new needs in the future.
health is one of the fundamental objectives of all union policies. access to medicines is one of the essential attributes that lead to its fulfilment, as the protection of human life must be paramount in all circumstances. it is of course important to avoid unnecessary delays, which is the key word in the decision on the price of individual medicines, in order to simply speed up the removal of barriers to trade in medicines. i agree with the introduction of minimum procedural rules governing access to medicines at a pan-european level, in order to facilitate access to up-scaling treatment for all patients in europe. this also requires compliance with them, thereby ensuring transparency and legal certainty. i am of course in favour of and insist on subsidiarity in this area too and that health care is a matter for the sovereignty of the member states, but it is unacceptable that the prices of medicines in the european union should vary so much from one country to another.
a public debate is underway in slovakia on the registration of abortion pills. we have seen how the state authorities first failed to inform the public and then deliberately provided and still provide incorrect and false information. the public is also not informed of any potential conflict of interest among those who make decisions about medicines. i therefore support measures that will lead to greater transparency. member states have the right and the duty to ensure that their citizens have access to quality medicines at a price which takes account of their purchasing power. the new directive will shed more light on the decision-making of regulatory bodies deciding on the marketing of medicines, their price and the level of public funding. this is important not only from the point of view of the single european market, but above all in the interests of citizens.
the price of a medicine, as well as the amount of the health insurance payment or the amount of the patient's allowance, is a very important process. the competent authorities decide on the availability of the medicine in the country concerned and thus on the health, quality or life expectancy of the people concerned. experience from the pharmaceutical market shows that deadlines for the pricing of medicinal products and for reimbursement are not always respected in practice and that actual market access varies considerably not only between member states but even within a single state. this signals the need not only to set objective, fair and equitable criteria for the marketing of medicinal products, but also to put in place effective control mechanisms. the introduction of greater transparency in the procedures and criteria for the registration, categorisation and reimbursement of medicinal products must be implemented in such a way that all manufacturers have the same conditions for the inclusion of their medicinal products in the relevant health insurance scheme. only by having an open and fair pharmaceutical policy can we improve the availability of the medicines our citizens need.
the eu is the world's leading economic power. but that's not what we've been doing in our industrial performance in recent years. the main reasons are the absence of a common industrial policy and the contradictions in the functioning of the single market. the research and innovation industry has a problem with the triangle. here we can count on the completion of horizon 2020 and the introduction of unitary eu patent protection to help us a lot. in addition to the keywords mentioned by mr tajani, namely competitiveness, growth and job creation, two other aspects should be highlighted: environmental protection and climate change. while the industries of the world's major countries, including america, are technology-oriented, the eu's industry is environmentally-oriented. and that's a costly attitude, especially in times of crisis. this is where we need to find the right compromise, because our biggest industrial competitors are not going to take on our mission commitments, and that will make them more competitive against us.
the european union's economy is stagnating, and many major companies are closing their factories and their long-time workers are losing their jobs. the more people in europe who are unemployed, the more money the states spend on social support. but strong european companies, which have grown on the hard work and skills of europe's population, are thriving and building new factories all over the world. volkswagen in china and russia, fiat, i think, in brazil. so they give jobs to chinese, brazilians, russians. the work that our fellow europeans could do. so if we want to revive our european industry, we should probably ask our big manufacturers, mr commissioner, why they are closing their factories here and going to other territories. in the past, europe's wealth was created by producing products here, exporting them and selling them to the rest of the world.
the slovak constitution states that no one can be deprived of his citizenship against his will. however, according to the 2010 amendment to the citizenship act, slovak authorities harass citizens who acquire citizenship of other eu member states in addition to slovak citizenship, such as the hungarian minority in slovakia or hungarians. this is unconstitutional, as the petition submitted by the persons concerned to the european parliament's peti committee in september points out. it is unfortunate that the slovak constitutional court, for political reasons in particular, has been hesitant to take a decision to this day. how can we talk about extending freedoms in 2013, the year of eu citizens, if we are watching such deprivation of rights unchecked in brussels? for the eu, the german solution on citizenship is an example to follow, where dual citizenship is generally not accepted, but citizenship of another eu member state is allowed. this would be the right path for the other member states.
i would like to draw attention to the problem of consumer protection in my contribution. consumers in the new member states are often victims of unfair practices. the same brand products sold in the new member states are often of lower quality than the same brands sold in the old member states, with the same or even higher prices. for example, in the case of meat products, it is a lower meat content, in the case of laundry powders and cleaning products, a lower quality, in the case of services of some mobile operators or even banks, a smaller range of services at higher prices. it's not about adjusting to lower purchasing power of the population, higher prices buy a lower quality product, less service in countries with significantly lower incomes. the commission's opinion sent to ms sehnalow's question justifies these differences by tradition and custom. this simply cannot stand, and consumer protection should not tolerate such significant discrimination.
madam president, commissioner, the full application of the effects of legal statutes in the member states cannot ignore european law. when changing a legal status, such as marriage, it is necessary to anticipate the inevitable domino effects that arise from european institutional mechanisms. if a member state undertakes to help infertile married couples to start a family by means of artificial or medically assisted procreation, it will be very difficult in practice to refuse this to same-sex married couples. the extensibility of the principle of non-discrimination serves as a legal gateway until medicine has evolved beyond its therapeutic purpose. european mechanisms to enforce assisted reproduction and surrogacy are in place. men will remember it too.
i supported the report because i believe that all the regulations adopted so far and their gradual implementation in practice have revealed to us facts which create the scope and possibilities for specific measures in the field of agriculture for the benefit of the smaller aegean islands. i also agree that there is no need to change the legislation on agriculture more significantly, but that it needs to be updated in the light of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. i welcome all the procedures that have been put in place so far in the framework of support for the aegean regions, but i expect that the reformulation of the implementation objectives will not only be implemented from the european parliament's point of view, but also that the local and regional authorities in the aegean region will play a significant role in implementing these measures more effectively and in particular in line with current agricultural requirements.
in writing. − if you have pursuant to article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the strengthening of the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union is essential to promote its harmonious and balanced development. community support for the 'smaller aegean islands' includes specific measures to promote the production, processing and marketing of certain agricultural products and to supply the islands with raw materials. since the aegean islands were not recognised as outermost regions under the treaties, special measures were adopted under a separate regulatory measure, drawing on the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development respectively. the draft regulation under examination is a further adaptation of the measures introduced in 1993 and subsequently amended several times, most recently in 2006. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, the commission has adopted a proposal which seeks to promote participation in decision-making on the adoption and implementation of measures. accordingly, the greek authorities are responsible for drawing up the support programme and submitting it to the commission for approval. in addition, they may also propose amendments in accordance with the current requirements of the islands. the gradual changes to the existing regulation, the evolution of eu law, the experience gained in applying it in practice and the new regulatory framework established after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty are all factors which, i believe, require the reformulation of some provisions and the restructuring of the proposal.
in view of their remoteness, insularity and in order to preserve the stability of agricultural production and industry in the outermost regions of the union, programmes of specific solutions play an important role. these regions are currently facing very serious economic problems and the development of agricultural production is at risk, which is why i supported the report presented and welcome all the proposals for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the benefit of the outermost regions of the union presented in the resolution. i consider that the strengthening of border controls on imports of products from third countries, especially in relation to agricultural and industrial production at local level, is an essential part of the specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions. the aim is to avoid distortion of competition or discrimination between economic operators. at the same time, however, i expect greater involvement of local and regional authorities in addressing the existing problems, which will create better conditions for the implementation of these programmes.
in writing. - the programmes of specific solutions for remoteness and insularity (posei) were introduced in 1991 to support the french overseas departments and extended a year later to the outermost regions of portugal and spain. nine regions currently benefit from this measure: guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, réunion, saint-barthélemy and saint-martin belonging to france; the azores and madeira belonging to portugal and the canary islands belonging to spain. a tenth region, namely the french department of mayotte, should be added. these programmes are essential for the maintenance and development of agricultural production and the processing sector in the regions. without the existence of the posei programmes, the visibility of the sectors covered would be at risk today, given the economic difficulties faced by these regions, resulting from their geographical location, and the very limited possibilities for diversifying their activities. the commission proposal amends regulation (ec) no 247/2006 on aid to the outermost regions, in particular to take account of the various legislative revisions that have taken place in recent years. the proposal aims in particular to adapt the regulation to the new provisions on delegated and implementing acts provided for by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the programmes of specific solutions to the remoteness and insularity of posei were introduced in 1991 to support the french overseas departments and extended a year later to the outermost regions of portugal and spain. nine regions currently benefit from this measure: guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, réunion, saint-barthélemy and saint-martin belonging to france; the azores and madeira belonging to portugal and the canary islands belonging to spain. the posei programme is based on two separate components. on the one hand, there is a specific supply regime which is aimed at supplying these areas with fodder for livestock, for the processing industry and for direct consumption. the aid granted under this scheme is limited to a ceiling set for each country in order to avoid any unfair competition with production on the islands. on the other hand, the second component of posei, which is the most consistent and draws on around 80% of the total amount of aid, concerns measures to support local agricultural production, which is crucial for the maintenance and viability of these activities.
i supported the report on improving access to finance for smes, because they are an important part of the whole european economy and, even with a little support, they are able to respond very flexibly to the market and create new jobs. the strict criteria of banks for granting loans often prevent smes from applying for a bank loan, as they do not have the core capital to guarantee the loans. increasing the capacity of loan guarantee schemes and micro-credit schemes for smes is a way to help maintain employment and viability for smes. however, the new measures require stricter and more rigorous control of compliance with the current directives, which are designed to create conditions for the stabilisation and growth of smes. because there is no point in adopting new measures if the ones already adopted are not applied and the cash flows in commercial transactions are very long, even liquidating for smes.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are of great importance to the european union. they are a pillar of the european economy and an important driver of economic growth. they contribute significantly to job creation in the 27 member states of the union. at the same time, however, the fact remains that smes are vulnerable, as is evident in the post-crisis period. as a result of the crisis, some lenders are more cautious in lending to smes. in addition, new and strict rules, for example for financial institutions, and capital requirements applied by both eu and national authorities have made it more difficult for smes to access finance. the lack of transparency, for example in early repayment of loans, is also a problem for smes. financial losses and additional charges are not always properly defined in advance. in some cases, the total cost of early repayment of a loan is even so high that smes are unable to pay it, making it impossible to reconsider their investment and lending decisions. as a result of stricter capital requirements, creditors often require additional personal guarantees in addition to the usual bank guarantees. this may constitute an additional obstacle for entrepreneurs to start a new business or to further invest in their sme. in the action plan to improve access to finance for smes, the commission puts forward a number of good proposals and solutions.
in writing. − smes are a pillar of the european economy, but their role is also to preserve european traditions, as small family businesses have always been part of the european space. it is our duty to protect this cultural heritage. there's a theory that small businesses don't make a huge contribution to the economy, but because there are so many small businesses, they're very important to the economy. we live in a time also marked by the strong influence of large enterprises, but these, although they appear to be independent, are dependent on small and medium-sized enterprises, which create networks of suppliers and subcontractors for them. the cooperation of large enterprises with small and medium-sized enterprises is essential for the smooth functioning of the economy. for these reasons, i welcome the new funding programmes, but i would like to remind you that smes are burdened with too much red tape and bureaucracy, which makes their business life difficult. it is also necessary to ensure the transparency of lending, to improve the information of entrepreneurs on financing options and to increase their legal awareness, which will enable them to better assess business opportunities.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are a pillar of the european economy and an important driver of economic growth in the european union. smes make a significant contribution to job creation in all 27 eu member states. for example, in slovakia, the sme sector accounts for 99.9% of the total number of enterprises and provides employment for 72.2% of the active labour force in the business economy. access to financial resources is a key prerequisite for the development of the sme sector in slovakia as in other eu countries. smes have different financial needs compared to large enterprises due to their characteristics. the lack of transparency, for example in early repayment of loans, is also a problem for smes. in some cases, the total cost of early repayment of a loan is even so high that smes are unable to pay it, making it impossible to reconsider their investment and lending decisions. however, there is no sme prototype and therefore no one-size-fits-all solution, and different types of smes have different needs.
in a time of continuing economic stagnation, the debate on the effective use and rigorous implementation of single market legislation is certainly justified. in particular, with regard to the employment and social aspects forecast in the 2013 annual growth survey, it may be necessary to react more quickly to the sharp decline in industrial production in europe and to consider whether some poorly estimated decisions of the european institutions are behind the large-scale loss of production capacity in the automotive, shipbuilding or steel industries. only the ability to react quickly and appropriately to a changing economic situation will enable us to return to gradual economic growth. if we understand the reasons why major employers are moving their production capacity from europe to other parts of the world, and if we look for smart solutions to stop this destructive trend for our economy. in many cases, it may be that only minor administrative changes in the definition of limits or quotas would be sufficient to enable our producers to maintain the profitability of their production even in our european legislative environment.
i would like to express my appreciation to veronika lope fontagne, who has managed to compromise on this very sensitive subject. i would like to make three comments on your report. firstly, in the member states of the union, although to varying degrees, job creation is one of the most important tasks. fiscal consolidation is therefore not really successful, and cannot be successful, where work and employment are burdened by the government with new and direct taxes. the best way to encourage young people to work is to better align tax policy with employment policy. second, much of the tension in the labour market is due to structural divergence between demand and supply. it is an illusion to think that the labour market can be adjusted to supply. quality career guidance, training based on labour market forecasts can be much more effective than so-called second chance provision, although this is also needed when the labour market service is looking for a job or a new form of education for new entrants. thirdly, with its 7% of the population, europe produces 25% of the world's total output, but pays 50% of global social spending. this is a very serious situation. it is clearly an incentive to develop new strategic ideas, since social welfare can often be demoralizing in terms of some of its benefits, especially when there is no or very little difference between a low or minimum wage and social benefits. the idea that the obligation to work cannot be linked to social benefits also needs to be reviewed. i believe that, in the context of fiscal reform, a better alignment between economic, employment and social policies is inevitable.
the economic crisis has had a strong impact on the economies of all the countries of the european union. the solutions to this complex situation are very difficult to find, and i see a great contribution in the european semester, which has brought a sort of overview of the main shortcomings in the management of economic affairs. increasing poverty leads to increasing social inequalities. this state of society requires an urgent solution to avoid a deepening of the economic problems. despite this, i consider youth unemployment to be the most serious problem in this context. young people have always made up a significant proportion of the workforce. their potential, strength, health and optimism must not remain untapped today. europe is providing jobs, but these jobs must also be given a certain amount of respect, because their place in society is irreplaceable and they will give young people the opportunity to use their knowledge and skills. the unemployed young people should have the opportunity to access training, courses, the free movement of labour and all other available means.
in writing. in its annual growth survey, the commission sets out what it considers to be the eu's essential priorities for the next 12 months in the areas of budgetary, economic, social and employment policies and reforms. the employment and social situation has deteriorated over the past year and the outlook for 2013 is pessimistic. the high debt and long-term challenges for public finances force continued fiscal consolidation. net fiscal consolidation has a negative impact on growth and employment, especially in countries in recession or with minimal growth rates. this jeopardises the potential for future growth and job creation. a balance needs to be struck between fiscal consolidation and measures to promote growth and job creation. the pace of consolidation must be adapted to each country according to its fiscal space in order to balance potential negative impacts on growth and employment and risks to debt sustainability, and must be conducted in a growth-friendly manner. for 2013, national and european efforts should focus on five priorities:- fiscal consolidation to support growth- restoring normal lending to the economy- promoting growth and competitiveness- tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis- modernising public administration
today we are talking about corporate social responsibility, about their transparent behaviour, and about the path to sustainable and inclusive regeneration. but the reality outside the gates of parliament is that small and medium-sized businesses are closing their businesses, small businesses are closing their businesses and, along with other citizens who have lost their jobs, are applying for aid at the employment offices. large employers, wishing to survive and maintain their production, are gradually moving production capacity from europe to other countries of the world. europe has already lost many glass factories, sugar factories, shipyards, ironworks, car factories and our citizens have lost their jobs. we are perhaps the most creative community in the world in creating new rules, implementing and prescribing new administrative procedures, and in our over-concentration we somehow miss the fact that even our stable employers are not willing to stay in such an environment any longer and are gradually shifting their capacities to asia, south america and russia.
according to environmental experts, noise levels in cities, where up to 80 percent of our population live, are unsustainably high. our efforts to reduce motor vehicle noise gradually are therefore justified and motor vehicle manufacturers generally accept this trend. however, with the advent of new technologies in the automotive production of electrically powered vehicles, a new problem has emerged. the quiet operation of these cars has become dangerous for the inattentive or the blind. the fact that sound signalling is an effective, widely accepted aid in organising transport is also demonstrated by its widespread use on railway crossings or pedestrian crossings. i therefore think that amendment no 66 to the proposed regulation should be taken seriously, as it could contribute to better protecting blind and partially sighted pedestrians, as well as people who may inadvertently step onto the road without looking around first. the appropriate use of an acoustic system in the operation of quiet vehicles can help to prevent traffic accidents.
in writing. − with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. consequently, the eu was obliged under wto rules (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994 agreement) to enter into negotiations with wto members, who are entitled to negotiate within the framework of the accession members' schedules of commitments, with a view to agreeing on a mutually acceptable compensatory arrangement to offset the increase in duties and the resulting significant losses. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the countries eligible for compensation. the negotiations with the united states of america have resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, which was initialled by the european union on 21 december 2011 and by the united states of america on 17 february 2012. in the eu-us compensation agreement, the agreement itself mainly covers poultry and pork meat as well as food preparations. the agreement on new tariff quotas for agricultural products will be implemented by means of an implementing regulation adopted by the commission. the european union has so far concluded similar compensation agreements with cuba, brazil and (with parliament's consent) also with australia, new zealand and argentina. the next draft agreement with china was initialled on may 31.
in writing. − with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged its customs union. as a result, the eu was obliged under wto rules to enter into negotiations with wto members, who are entitled to negotiate within the framework of the commitments schedules of the acceding members, with a view to agreeing on a mutually acceptable compensatory arrangement to offset the increase in duties and the resulting significant losses. in order to meet wto requirements, these agreements address two issues. the first is the compensation of higher duties, which is most often achieved by introducing tariff quotas against specific countries or by increasing existing quotas. secondly, the fact that the pre-accession tariff quota of bulgaria and romania applied to all is also to be added to the existing eu tariff quota applied to all. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the countries eligible for compensation. for example, in the eu-us compensation agreement, this applies in particular to poultry and pork meat as well as food preparations. i agree with the rapporteur, mr moreir, that the commission was right to choose tariff rate quotas as a compensation instrument for the american products concerned, as tariff rate quotas are the most targeted way of compensating for losses.
in writing. − if you have article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the union are to work towards developing a coordinated strategy for employment, and in particular to promote a skilled, trained and flexible workforce and labour markets responsive to economic change, with a view to achieving the objectives set out in article 3 of the treaty on european union. the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the european commission will enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the five headline targets set out in the relevant guidelines represent common objectives guiding the action of member states, taking into account their initial situation and national circumstances as well as the situation and circumstances common to the union as a whole. the european employment strategy is taking the lead in delivering the objectives of the new strategy on employment and the labour market. i consider it important and highly justified that the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 remain unchanged until 2014, in order to ensure their smooth implementation.
in writing. − the european employment strategy is the most important reference point for the new strategy on employment and the labour market. it is therefore essential that the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 remain unchanged until 2014. it is equally important to ensure their smooth implementation. our task is not just to develop a coordinated employment strategy that focuses on promoting a skilled, trained and flexible workforce and on supporting labour markets that respond to economic change. greater attention should also be paid to the priority areas, in particular increasing labour market participation, reducing unemployment, developing a skilled workforce in line with labour market needs and promoting quality jobs and lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. for these reasons, i believe it is extremely important that the ep is informed if the council intends to depart from the original text.
in writing. − union legislation provides a harmonised framework for the authorisation of medicinal products for human use. in accordance with directive 2001/83/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 6 november 2001 on the community code relating to medicinal products for human use, medicinal products may be placed on the union market only after obtaining a marketing authorisation based on an assessment of their quality, safety and efficacy. member states have recently been confronted with a steady increase in expenditure on medicines, which has led to the introduction of increasingly complex policies to manage the consumption of medicines within national health insurance systems. in particular, the competent authorities of the member states have introduced a series of measures to control the prescription of medicinal products, to regulate their prices and to determine the conditions for their public funding. these measures shall aim in particular at promoting public health by ensuring adequate availability of medicines at reasonable costs, while ensuring the financial stability of public health insurance systems. however, differences between national measures can impede or distort trade in medicinal products within the union, distort competition and thus directly affect the functioning of the internal market in medicinal products. i consider it justified to amend the commission proposal accordingly in order to guarantee the practical and effective implementation of the envisaged provisions and to give the competent national authorities the necessary degree of flexibility and autonomy to meet the requirements of the directive in question.
in writing. − a public debate on the registration of abortion pills is currently underway in slovakia. we have seen how the state authorities first failed to inform the public and then deliberately provided and still provide incorrect and false information. the public is also not informed of any potential conflict of interest among those who make decisions about medicines. i therefore support measures that will lead to greater transparency. member states have the right and the duty to ensure that their citizens have access to quality medicines at a price which takes account of their purchasing power. the new directive will shed more light on the decision-making of regulatory bodies that decide on the marketing of medicines, their price and the level of public funding. this is important not only from the point of view of the european single market. it is primarily in the interest of the citizens.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 established a community system for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. the common fisheries policy should ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities contribute to sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions in the long term. at the 2002 world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the union and its member states committed themselves to act to prevent the continued decline of many fish stocks. the union should therefore improve its common fisheries policy to ensure that, as a matter of priority, the levels of exploitation of marine biological resources are restored and maintained at levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield from the stocks fished by 2015. it is important that the management of the common fisheries policy be guided by the principles of good governance. this includes, for example, decision-making based on the best available scientific advice, broad stakeholder participation and a long-term perspective. i am of the opinion that the successful management of the cfp depends to a large extent on a clear definition of responsibilities at union, national, regional and local level and on the mutual compatibility and consistency of the measures taken with other union policies.
in writing. − the existing common fisheries policy is no longer sustainable. in recent years, we have depleted our seas, leaving many fishermen without jobs or dependent on subsidies. europe is 66% dependent on fish imports. i therefore firmly believe that by reforming the common fisheries policy and establishing certain common principles not only within europe but also outside eu waters, we will ensure that overfishing is stopped, fish stocks are restored and the negative impacts on the marine environment are minimised. overfishing damages the marine environment and threatens the viability of communities dependent on fishing. we should therefore encourage small-scale coastal fishermen to engage in activities with a low impact on catches, establish long-term management plans and, in particular, avoid wasting fish caught, which in practice means recording all catches. on the other hand, all planned measures should aim at making the fisheries sector more attractive and creating new jobs in this area. at a time when we are fighting against a steadily rising unemployment rate, we must take advantage of all the opportunities to bring people into the labour market. the attractiveness of the fisheries sector will ensure the long-term viability of coastal communities, also by supporting economic growth and employment.
the protection of public health, the environment and the treaty on the functioning of the european union enshrine the protection of human health, which applies to everyone without exception and allows both noise levels and the impact on human health to be reduced. it is very good that we have also adopted amendment no 66, which talks about introducing noise levels in a positive way for electric and hybrid cars, because people with visual impairments or totally blind people or children and cyclists need to hear the basal noise of an approaching vehicle. i think that's how we've treated the other side of the coin. i am of course speaking for and voting for this regulation, which also limits the noise of large lorries, and i am glad that we have adopted this amendment by a large majority.
in writing. − the increasing number of cars is one of the most common sources of noise pollution. prolonged exposure to noise can increase the incidence of cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment, sleep disturbance, and hearing loss. the report, which aims to reduce the occurrence of environmental noise and harmonise maximum european limits, will bring about positive changes in the protection of citizens' health and the environment. different approval requirements exist for co2 and pollutant emissions from vehicles, which in many cases conflict with measures taken to reduce noise levels. this may result in an increase in the weight of the vehicles, which may result in higher co2 emissions. however, these measures must not be at the expense of road safety. the introduction of long-term noise emission limits, reflecting differences in the development and production of passenger cars and trucks, will help to adapt to the new requirements. the new regulation balances road safety, environmental protection and, not least, car-friendly provisions. the new regulation should not place an unmanageable burden on car manufacturers, as this would have a negative impact on our competitiveness. i also supported the people's party's proposals on the minimum noise level for electric and hybrid electric vehicles, which is an important consideration for all pedestrians, regardless of disability.
in writing. − these days, as members of the european parliament, we have a unique opportunity to improve the quality of life of european citizens by expressing our support for new rules regulating the amount of noise emitted by motor vehicles. in addition to traffic management, the reduction of car noise and the quiet and undamaged surfaces of the roads are important steps towards reducing the level of traffic noise in european cities. the tightening of the limits mainly concerns noise from tyres, engine and exhaust system. over the last 40 years, motor vehicle noise has had an increasingly negative impact on the health and well-being of european citizens as a result of the growth of transport. noise emission standards for vehicles have not been specified since the early 1990s. scientific research has shown that traffic noise causes approximately 50 000 fatal heart attacks per year and more than 250 000 cases of cardiovascular disease in europe. but let us also ensure that this european union regulation takes realistic account of the technical and physical possibilities. when reducing vehicle noise, factors such as vehicle safety should also be taken into account quieter cars are less recognisable to visually impaired pedestrians, harder tyres have longer braking distances, etc. let us be the ones to give our voice not only to a healthier environment, but also to a longer and more meaningful life for the people of europe.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has had a serious impact on public finances in many member states. while most member states have had to take extensive measures to reduce debt and budget deficits to achieve sustainable public finances, some have been hit so severely that they have had to seek assistance under eu financial support mechanisms. due to serious economic problems, these member states have encountered difficulties in meeting the co-financing requirements resulting from eu funding. these problems are evident, even when it comes to funding under the general solidarity programme and the management of migration flows. in this context, the commission proposed the possibility of increasing the co-financing rate for member states benefiting from financial support mechanisms. the proposal aims to allow an increase of 20 percentage points in the union's co-financing rate, thereby reducing the co-financing of some of these member states. the effective management of migration flows is of great importance to the european union as a whole. the failure of one member state to ensure effective management of migration flows does not only affect that one member state but also affects a number of other member states. for this reason too, it is in the interest of all member states that economic difficulties in some member states do not undermine their migration commitments.
in writing. − a temporary increase in the funding rate is an appropriate means of ensuring a positive migration policy not only for the member state receiving the funding but for the union as a whole. the supply of the ideal workforce has an impact on society and the economy and represents an opportunity for rapid development, which is currently one of the solutions to the economic crisis. for the reasons stated above, i emphasise the motion adopted. the economic crisis is one of those times when the european union must show its ability to stand up against poverty and the economic slowdown. this requires our active participation, coordination of the national authorities' approach and support for measures that will have a demonstrably positive impact on addressing this economically complex situation.
in writing. − the effects of the economic and financial crisis have not disappeared. they're here, and they have a permanent impact on public finances. these difficulties are also evident in relation to funds under the general programme solidarity and the management of migration flows. i therefore welcome and support the commission's proposal to increase the co-financing rates by 20 percentage points, or in the case of the cohesion fund, up to 95%. however, it should be recalled that some member states have entered into a state of mismanagement of public finances on their own initiative and therefore the rate increase should only be applied to specific priorities and should be limited in time. at the same time, an effective system of control over the use of these financial resources will need to be established.
in writing. − the impact of the economic and financial crisis on public finances has been severe and felt in several member states. most member states have been forced to take far-reaching measures to reduce debt levels and budget deficits in order to put public finances back on a sustainable path, but some countries have been hit by the crisis to the extent that they have had to turn to eu financial support mechanisms for assistance. these member states have encountered difficulties in meeting the co-financing requirements related to eu funding due to severe economic difficulties. the commission has therefore proposed the possibility of increasing the co-financing rates for member states benefiting from the financial support mechanism. the proposal is intended to allow an increase of 20 percentage points in the union co-financing rate, thereby reducing the co-financing needs of some of the member states mentioned. the effective management of migration flows is of great importance to the european union as a whole. the failure of one member state to ensure the effective management of migration flows does not only affect the country concerned, but also affects many other member states. it is therefore in the interest of all member states that commitments made in relation to migration do not suffer the consequences of economic difficulties in some member states. i consider it very important that member states with major economic problems can still carry out responsibly the tasks related to the management of migration flows.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has forced most member states to take significant measures to reduce debt levels and budget deficits. some countries have resorted to eu financial support mechanisms. these member states have encountered problems in meeting the co-financing requirements. this is also the case for the funds under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. i agree with the commission's proposal to allow an increase of 20 percentage points in the union co-financing rate, thereby reducing the need for co-financing for the member states concerned. this would change the co-financing rate to 70%. the annual amount of the funds to be allocated to each country under the basic acts will remain unchanged, while the national co-financing will be reduced accordingly. since similar changes in co-financing requirements have already been approved for the structural and other funds, i consider it reasonable to introduce similar changes for the funds relating to migration flows. i believe it is important that member states with significant economic challenges can continue to cope with the challenges of migration flows, which is why i supported the report.
in writing. − technical conservation measures for fisheries resources are among the most important elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management and are at the forefront of decisions on fishing opportunities. they set out rules for fishing zones and the fishing gear used as opposed to the quantities allowed (fishing effort) or the catches (tac and quotas). technical protection measures are the rules that fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when they go on a fishing expedition to ensure that the way and place of fishing is carried out in a sustainable manner. the measures relate to minimum landings, minimum mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, by-catch limits, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment and therefore have a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy. i consider that in order to ensure the continuity of the proper protection and management of marine biological resources, it is necessary to update the regulation in question accordingly and also to make efforts to reach a political agreement on the issue.
the european union's efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls must be clearly presented at the un commission on the status of women in march this year. that is why i supported the motion for a resolution, because only coordinated action at all national and transnational levels and a global campaign can contribute to the respect of the human rights of women and girls worldwide. one of the key priorities in addressing violence against women and girls must be to eliminate discriminatory socioeconomic and cultural attitudes that place women in a subordinate position in society and lead to the toleration of violence against women and girls in both the private and public spheres, at home and in the workplace. local and international ngos have a great deal of credit in promoting the prevention of violence against women and girls, and their support from the european union must be unequivocal.
everyone has the right to decide freely about his or her own life, with respect for the freedom of others. violence against women is contrary to this right because women who are physically, mentally, socially or economically limited are not allowed to make decisions according to their will. it is an ethical and moral problem because it violates fundamental human rights and human dignity. i would like to say that my voting machine showed some malfunction and i wanted to vote against this resolution in conclusion because it also contains a blanket reference to stereotypes such as sexual and reproductive rights, which establish a kind of right to abortion. as a doctor, i can't agree with that at all, there are already two human beings in there. so i voted against it in the end, and against recital d, in part three, i voted against it.
in writing. − violence against women and girls remains one of the most serious human rights violations, with a global and structural dimension, and is a phenomenon that affects both victims and perpetrators, regardless of their age, education, income and social status. this form of violence persists in all countries of the world, constitutes a serious violation of human rights and remains a major obstacle to achieving gender equality and the empowerment of women. harassment and violence against women encompasses a number of forms of human rights violations, including sexual abuse, rape, domestic violence, sexual assault and harassment, prostitution, and trafficking of women and girls. i consider it essential that the 2013 commission on the status of women agrees to the development of a general implementation plan to end violence against women and girls, with a particular focus on the prevention of violence and the provision of monitoring and practical advice in relation to existing international commitments (cedaw and the beijing platform for action), to be endorsed by all un member states and to be implemented in 2015.
mr president, i would like to welcome and appreciate this opportunity to discuss the kurdish issue today. it is important to support fully all the initiatives which lead to the reopening of dialogue and a possible road to a peaceful solution for the kurds in the region. the latest steps taken by the turkish ruling party aiming to resume talks with öcalan in promoting peace dialogue could be a good start on this road. it is true that the kurdish issue has been misunderstood in turkey. therefore, i hope that it will be possible to sustain a general consensus among leading parties on the dialogue and possibly get other political forces involved. there is a very similar challenge for the other side as well. in order to build trust in the process, the kurdish parties and groups should come on board and lay down arms. moreover, with the latest developments in syria and escalating political tensions in arbil province in northern iraq, it is vital that turkey seeks a political solution. it is important to stop any violence, especially against civilians; this is our most important goal at the moment. syria and iran in particular may not be comfortable with a stronger turkey in the region. these two countries have in the past used the pkk to destabilise turkey. i believe a peaceful solution to the kurdish issue could make turkey only more powerful in the region; this is in the interest of the european union too.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the kurdish problem is an explosive throughout the region. it is a remnant of the colonial partition of the world and today turkey has to deal with it. yes, if we succeed, it will be a definitive affirmation of turkey's european path. however, this requires that turkey, in particular, accept the language rights of the kurds in its new constitution, remove all discriminatory provisions based on ethnicity and, above all, ensure full civil rights. the granting of generous cultural and educational autonomy is a condition for the kurds' satisfaction with life in turkey. this includes political representation in the turkish institutions, in particular the reduction of the threshold for entry to parliament from the current 10% to the traditional 5%. there is no doubt that the kurds must definitively abandon the pkk's practices and any terrorist activities. it's not that hard, as long as both parties are willing. the eu must help this will.
mr president, i fully support parliament’s resolution on the upcoming session of the un human rights council. it is going to be important in relation to the critical situation of human rights in some countries. we have to pay permanent attention to the challenges faced in syria, where two and a half million people lack food and the civil population is exposed to violence by the regime and also by opposition groups. northern mali has witnessed human rights abuses and the whole region was at risk of turning into an extremist-run state. we should appreciate the engagement of france and also the logistical support given by several member states. i also welcome the appointment of new special rapporteurs on the situation of human rights in belarus and eritrea. what is most important, i think, is that we must be united, act collectively, and be more coordinated and more ambitious in all international human rights fora.
bulgaria is a young member of the union and we all realise that civilized democratic governance takes time to be adopted by both the population and the political elite. the bitter conflicts between the ruling faction and the opposition forces suggest that the substantive, cultivated dialogue on constructive solutions to society's problems has been replaced in this country by a ruthless struggle for money and power. i am not sure that we can determine from brussels the extent of the responsibility of individual political leaders for this state of affairs, but i am convinced that the bulgarian citizens deserve an honest, fair and dignified administration of public affairs. political pluralism, freedom of the media, independence of the judiciary are essential attributes of a democratic rule of law. if political nervousness escalates into physical attacks on party leaders in the run-up to elections, i think it is our responsibility to appeal to our political partners in bulgaria to return to honest and substantive political dialogue and to create space for the peaceful and free decision-making of their voters.
at the upcoming negotiations of the conference of the parties to the un framework convention on climate change later this year, we should strive to move forward with the implementation of our modest targets. experience in coordinating our position with member states' policies in preparing the european union's position at the doha conference in qatar could help us to present the european union's representatives at the warsaw conference with a unified view to achieving the most significant progress. it is therefore necessary for the european commission to negotiate with the member states in good time on common positions on the specific issues and to inform them of the objectives it wants to achieve in warsaw. in order to realistically set our objectives and expectations from the warsaw conference and the subsequent paris conference, it might also be useful to know in advance certain shifts in the positions of other countries, in particular china and the united states of america, which would allow us to concentrate on those areas where the participants in the conference will be willing to support more significant progress.
in an open european area, where we guarantee the free movement of citizens and a single market area, we must also expect that misunderstandings and disputes will arise in both civil and commercial matters. our member states have diverse legal systems based on different traditions. in order to resolve cross-border disputes in a fair and effective manner within the framework of different legal systems covered by the common law of the union, it is necessary to create conditions for our judges to be able to broaden their professional competence so that they can deal more effectively with complex disputes where the rules of several legal systems overlap. the instrument to help widen access to training in european union law within the member states' judicial systems was a pilot project to be carried out from 2012. we therefore remind the commission that it is in our common interest to make the most significant progress in this training of judges.
the collection of taxes is one of the most important revenues of the public treasury, and it is therefore important that the mechanisms for their collection are simple, transparent and well protected against fraud. the commission's proposed rapid reaction mechanism to eliminate carousel vat fraud appears to be a specific measure to address one of the many problems of our imperfect tax systems. i am convinced that the principle of passing on the tax liability from the supplier of goods or services to the recipient should be allowed only exceptionally, in justified cases where it is shown that there is a likelihood of fraudulent conduct. in such a case, the commission's proposed rapid reaction mechanism, which replaces the current formal exemption procedure with a simpler temporary exemption procedure, may also be useful. and the sooner the mechanism is put into action, the sooner we can be convinced of its effectiveness. therefore, it is also necessary to focus on his early appointment to the council.
in writing. it is very good that after the report on how to combat vat fraud, we are discussing the annual report of the european investment bank. in this context, the eib is also called upon to continue to strive to avoid using tax havens or non-cooperative jurisdictions to finance its operations. the eib's mandate for operations outside the union is also to be revised. in addition, the bank should have better access to union grants and improved interoperability with eu instruments. it should make greater use of its lending capacity in line with eu priorities in creating growth and jobs, and in providing credit to smes. at a time when member states are restructuring public finances, the eib must continue to support the social economy sector and young entrepreneurs through various initiatives such as tailor-made loans and guarantee schemes.
i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her work and expressing my full support for her. last year we had the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. on this occasion, i organised two major conferences in my country, slovakia, and a number of meetings with older people and young people. my experience with these events has been very positive. older people are interested in being very active in economic, social, cultural and political life. they want to pass on their lifelong experience to the younger generation, but to do so, they need to have a health and social background in place so that their retirement is not a stressor, as their standard of living is reduced and they fall into the social network of poverty. in this respect, such a reform of the pension system is necessary so that a pensioner who has worked actively for society all his life can live out his autumn in an active and dignified way.
in writing. − if you have the european union's population is currently ageing at a relatively rapid rate, with the number of people aged over 65 almost doubling from 85 to 151 million between 2008 and 2060. in addition, the proportion of the population over 60 years of age in the total population will increase from 20% in 2010 to at least 35% by 2050. more or less simultaneously with these significant population changes, the european union is currently experiencing a spatial change: it is becoming truly highly urbanised, and very rapidly. in the 1970s, 60% of the population lived in urban areas; today, 80% of the total population is urbanised. a further increase of 5% is expected by 2030. population ageing and urbanisation are interrelated: national demographic trends are reflected at the urban level. the increase in the proportion of older people in urban areas is generally and in the long term in line with national patterns of ageing. and so urban areas are also facing an ageing population. however, research results indicate that most 'cities' are not sufficiently prepared for demographic and spatial change. i therefore believe that a strategy is urgently needed to make these places age-friendly.
in writing. - we have long denied not only the value of the work of women mothers, but also the very existence of this work. we keep going around in circles. we want to mitigate the effects of the demographic crisis, so we force women to spend more time earning money. but since there are only twenty-four hours in a day, this means that women will no longer have the capacity to care for a household with more than two children. the reproductive index in our countries will thus remain below the magic limit of 2.1. europe's ageing and gradual extinction will continue. the policies the commission is proposing do not address the demographic crisis any more than panadol does the flu. they may relieve symptoms for a short time, but they do not heal a sick society. only when the commission overcomes ideological prejudices and begins to apply the family perspective consistently can europe begin to recover.
in writing. − cites is the most comprehensive global agreement on the protection of wildlife, aimed at preventing the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora in international trade, and has 177 parties, including the 27 member states of the european union. the objective of the convention is to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of these species in the wild. over-exploitation of wild species, illegal trade in wild animals and plants, destruction of habitats, climate change and human consumption of natural resources are the main causes of biodiversity loss. in this context, i also consider it important that the parties to cites consider further ways to enhance cooperation, coordination and synergies within the conventions related to the protection of biodiversity at all relevant levels. it is essential to make the necessary efforts to put long-term prosperity ahead of short-term economic interests.
in writing. − if you have in the context of the high burden of public debt and the constraints in time of ongoing national efforts to consolidate the budget, the european parliament and all other eu institutions should continue to exercise a high degree of budgetary responsibility, control and restraint. some investments may have a lasting impact on the budget of the institutions and should therefore be considered despite the limited room for manoeuvre. the institutions should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets in a spirit of solidarity with member states in difficult economic and budgetary situations, without compromising the quality of the institutions' core activities, compliance with legal obligations and the need to invest in development. i am of the opinion that the amount of the 2014 appropriations should be determined on the basis of a thorough analysis of the implementation of the appropriations in 2012 and 2013 in order to achieve savings on the budget lines where implementation problems have arisen. it is important that the institutions strengthen their cooperation with each other in order to exchange best practices, where possible and justified, and to identify potential savings through pooling and sharing of technical resources, for example in the field of information technology systems, translation, interpretation and transport services, or in various other areas.
i supported the report and would like to thank the commission for proposing, in the context of the new strategy, to reformulate a number of concepts and to put forward a series of concrete measures aimed at further strengthening the impact of csr policies. in addition to all the benefits that corporate social responsibility brings, it is also necessary to talk about the shortcomings that occur when practicing responsible business. it is often the case that top management does not understand or has insufficient knowledge of the field, and this hinders the implementation of csr in the company's strategy. the long time horizon of return of this policy and its difficult measurability are also a significant problem of csr. i therefore consider it an important part of the report that the proposals advocate the recognition of corporate social responsibility at european level.
in writing. − the european commission previously defined corporate social responsibility (csr) as 'a concept whereby enterprises voluntarily integrate social and environmental aspects into their business activities and interactions with stakeholders'. corporate social responsibility concerns the activities of companies, both within and outside the framework of their legal obligations towards society and the environment. however, certain regulatory measures create an environment that contributes more strongly to the voluntary fulfilment of social responsibility by enterprises. the strategic approach to the cap is increasingly important for the competitiveness of enterprises. it can bring benefits in the areas of risk management, cost savings, access to capital, customer relations, human resource management and innovation capacity. i am convinced that in this way it can support the development of new markets and create growth opportunities. by addressing their social responsibility, businesses will be able to gain the long-term trust of employees, consumers and citizens, which creates sustainable business models. in turn, a higher level of public trust in businesses will help create an environment in which businesses can innovate and grow. equally gratifying is the fact that businesses can make a significant contribution to the treaty objectives of sustainable development and a highly competitive social market economy through the cap.
in writing. − the economic crisis has affected all sections of the population and its impact has also been felt strongly in the business environment. nevertheless, it is businesses that can help the economies of the european union countries to move forward again, including through a responsible approach to their social orientation. the idea of social responsibility is seen as a burden by many businesses because they see no profit in social policy. smes need to change their attitude and adopt the idea of social responsibility as a normal part of business life, through which they can build their competitiveness based on ethics, protection of human rights, respect for the law, good relations with trade unions, environmental protection, support of the region and so on. i appreciate those entrepreneurs who do this because they set a good example for others and help to revive economic growth. the adoption of simple rules to frame corporate social responsibility would help to spread these ideas. however, it must not create an additional administrative burden for entrepreneurs in the performance of their activities and thus contribute to the development of a responsible market economy.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility can only work where society is a community of values and responsibility is part of every claim. but in europe today, comfort is more important than responsibility. we fund abortions in africa with development aid, we give grants to scientifically kill unborn children, and we force our women to put paid work before caring for their own children. if we want socially responsible business, we have to abandon the comfortable position of moral relativism. otherwise, we're just producing another bureaucratic burden for the corporate administration. businesses are run by people, they are run by people, they are bought by people - and all these people have a stake in how businesses do business, how they treat their employees and the environment.
i supported the report because i believe that corporate social responsibility can restore confidence in businesses and increase their competitiveness. at the same time, it is necessary to point out the risks of introducing the concept of corporate social responsibility, in particular in view of the lack of knowledge of this area among the general public. people who are responsible for the business of others do not show support for responsible companies by preferring their products over others. therefore, there is a need to organise more awareness-raising activities in this area at all levels of the member states and the eu. i support many other measures of the administration and expect in particular improvements in the eu in the areas of human rights violations, labour exploitation, job creation, health at work and so on.
in writing. −the commission's latest communication on corporate social responsibility brings this concept into the european mindset, in a policy area in which the european parliament plays a decisive role. it also represents a significant step forward in responding to the dialogue with parliament and stakeholders involved in the csr debate. the report submitted, inter alia, states that the commission must play a much more active role in implementing the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and must include them in trade and investment agreements, provide financial support for capacity building, assist in resolving complaints in cases of alleged breach of obligations, make financial support to enterprises conditional on compliance with the guidelines and assist new signatories worldwide. the report also highlights the importance of transparency and integrated sustainability reporting as the main driver of corporate social responsibility. i share the view that corporate social responsibility must move from process to outcome. in this context, i also consider it important that more and more companies actually recognise their corporate social responsibility.
we need to improve the fight against tax fraud and evasion across the european union. the establishment of minimum penalties for tax crimes, a cross-border tax identification number, an eu taxpayers' charter and stronger common measures against tax havens are just a few examples of the ways in which tax fraud and evasion can be tackled in the eu. although the eu's measures to tackle tax evasion are very effective, the current situation cannot be satisfactory. this is evidenced by the published losses due to vat fraud which form part of the report. i agree that the fight against fraud is a long-term strategy that requires more structural changes in vat. however, the union must find a way to join forces and strengthen the various instruments in the fight against tax fraud within the member states. such instruments could include a proposal for a rapid reaction mechanism to allow member states to respond more quickly and efficiently to vat fraud.
in writing. − on 31 july 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a rapid reaction mechanism to enable member states to respond more quickly and efficiently to vat fraud. a member state facing widespread vat fraud could introduce certain exceptional measures under the rapid reaction mechanism in a way that is not possible under current vat legislation. under the conditions currently in place, if a member state wishes to combat vat fraud by means of measures not provided for in eu vat legislation, it must formally request a derogation. the commission shall then draw up a proposal to that end and submit it to the council for unanimous adoption before the measures concerned can be implemented. however, i believe that this process can be lengthy and cumbersome and that the member state concerned may be reluctant to take the necessary measures to stop the fraud. however, with a rapid reaction mechanism, member states would no longer have to wait for the completion of this formal process before applying concrete anti-fraud measures. the rapid response mechanism was envisaged in the new vat strategy and the anti-fraud and tax evasion communication as a means of strengthening the fight against tax fraud in the eu and protecting public revenues.
in writing. − if a member state currently wants to fight vat fraud, it must formally request a derogation from eu vat legislation. the commission then draws up a proposal, which must be approved unanimously by the council. this process can be lengthy and cumbersome and the member state concerned may be reluctant to take the necessary measures to stop the fraud. a rapid reaction mechanism would allow member states to respond more quickly and efficiently to vat fraud. member states could apply this mechanism within a month. it transfers the obligation to pay vat from the supplier of goods or services to the recipient. however, tax authorities should also take into account the administrative burden on taxpayers. the rapid reaction mechanism shall only be applied in serious cases of fraud. i therefore expect a long-term anti-fraud strategy to be developed, as the complexity of vat legislation across the eu is an opportunity for fraudsters. at the same time, the member states must retain the competence to determine their own vat rate.
in writing. − the euro area as a whole is experiencing a deep recession due to excessive debt and the financial crisis. it has had devastating consequences for the lives of millions of europeans, as documented by official employment statistics: in the european union, more than 8 million people have already lost their jobs since 2008, more than 25 million europeans are currently unemployed, with almost 11 million of them unemployed for more than a year. unemployment now affects nearly 10 million young people, with 2 million people losing their jobs in the past year alone. i believe that growth and job creation must be the absolute top priority of all our priorities. in particular, in order to improve the current critical situation, member states simply have to accept, but above all actually implement, the necessary commitments in their national reform programmes.
in writing. − the commission presented the annual growth survey back in november 2012. the results are critical, particularly in the employment and social fields. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. over the last 12 months, the number of unemployed has increased by 2 million, reaching 25 million unemployed in the eu, 10.5% of the population even in working age. the segmentation of the labour market continued to increase and long-term unemployment reached alarming levels. in many member states, average household incomes are falling and indicators point to deeper forms of poverty and social exclusion as well as to employed poverty. progress towards the europe 2020 targets is minimal. member states simply do not follow the political guidelines and do not fulfil their obligations. the crisis has hit young people particularly hard. across the eu, more than one in five young people is unemployed (22%) and youth unemployment rates in some member states are as high as 50%. growth and job creation must be the absolute top priority of all our priorities! i am convinced that in order to improve the current critical situation, member states must simply accept, but above all actually implement, the necessary commitments, in particular in the framework of their national reform programmes.
in writing. − i supported the report and the motion for a resolution because it identifies real problems and proposes solutions. we have to admit that we in the ep have been a little too emphatic and have become statistical about how the economic crisis is affecting young people's employment. we must admit that it took us a long time to tell the council and the commission that it was time to open up the funds for the employment of young people. today, long-term unemployment has reached alarming levels. unemployment, poverty, social exclusion, these are also fundamental aspects of other social problems. i therefore welcome calls for the council to make youth unemployment a priority in the political guidelines and support the commission's proposals to create a youth guarantee scheme with requirements for its rapid implementation and sufficient funding.
in writing. − i supported the report because it warns of the deepening poverty that particularly affects women. and i also supported it because it openly speaks about its inability to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i warned this parliament when this strategy was being drawn up that i remember similar plans for economic development and welfare from the days of the communist regime. such plans have always ended in failure or have been successful only on paper and in the documents of bureaucrats. the european semester was introduced as a tool for fiscal consolidation, as a measure to prevent member states from becoming overly indebted. but as soon as the first wave of panic in the financial markets had passed, the resolve of governments to save began to wane. and every euro that government takes from citizens and businesses reduces the chance of a european economic recovery.
in writing. − the crisis has shown that the european union must act if it is to improve its economic model and restore competitiveness. these actions require, in particular, sound public finances, in-depth structural reforms and targeted investments. europe 2020 is the eu's strategy to boost sustainable growth and job creation, and the single market plays a key role in it. although the commission has been working with the member states to achieve this objective for a long time, the current situation shows that efforts to improve are needed. although the rules are transposed correctly, they often do not work well in practice. businesses and citizens often do not understand what their rights are and face many difficulties in trying to enforce them. taking advantage of what we have and making it work better in practice is a fast track to growth and jobs. the march 2012 european council concluded that the governance of the single market needs to be strengthened and its implementation and enforcement improved. the european parliament has called for similar action. i believe that it is justified and important to make efforts to renew the commitment to a single market that will effectively ensure growth.
in writing. − if you have respect for, promotion of, protection of, the universality and indivisibility of human rights is part of the eu's ethical and legal acquis and one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. the european union should make efforts to uphold human rights by standing up against their violation. it should seek to pool the common efforts of individual member states in order to achieve the best possible results and, in this regard, should further strengthen cooperation and increase organisational measures between individual member states. the council of the european union adopted a strategic framework for human rights and democracy and an action plan for its implementation, with a view to achieving more effective, visible and consistent eu policies in this area. the protection of human rights is one of the union's key priorities. repressions and intimidation of human rights defenders who work with the un on human rights could jeopardise these efforts. i therefore consider that the financial support allocated to the urgent protection and support of human rights defenders under the european instrument for democracy and human rights is necessary and justified.
in writing. - the rule of law is what we have in common from the perspective of the european union as a whole. what we need to improve is a holistic approach to the law as such - both from the practical and the judicial point of view. there is no justification for ignorance of european law on the part of national judges, who are and must be european judges. the excessive burden and the number of actions brought before the court of justice seem to indicate that the individual national courts are not working sufficiently. however, it is also for the national courts to use all the means at their disposal to facilitate effective and rapid access to justice. i think it is a desirable cost-effective means of improving the education of judges and their access to the law. this can also be another aspect of building a european judicial culture.
in writing. − the role of the european investment bank is becoming crucial for the future of the eu in order to achieve the european union's objectives of growth and jobs. the union has already taken several measures to improve the discipline and supervision of public debts and national budgets. however, it also needs to take active measures to improve inclusive growth and opportunities, strengthen its innovation capacity and knowledge-based industries, increase investment in infrastructure, develop networks and strengthen social and environmental policies. it also needs high-quality employment opportunities, increased employment rates and better productivity. in order to achieve these objectives, i consider it important to strengthen and improve the cooperation between the eib and the european commission. i believe that it is the eib that should use its capacity to finance projects and its expertise to contribute to external action, in close partnership with the eeas, the european commission and the other institutions. at the same time, it is right to focus our attention both now and in the future, so that the eib can help europe overcome the current crisis.
we all condemn the inaction of the lao government in the case of the disappearance of the acclaimed and awarded sombath somphone, an activist in the field of community development and promotion of education on sustainable development and civic participation. since his disappearance on 15 december 2012, despite pressure from the international community, the country has not provided clear information from the investigation to clarify these events. it is necessary to create pressure to make his investigation transparent, to demand that the government take immediate and consistent action in the investigation in accordance with their obligations under international conventions, and to ensure his immediate and safe return to his family.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the elections in zimbabwe are approaching and robert mugabe is at it again. he is targeting high-profile members of the opposition and ngos. they are increasingly facing intimidation, arbitrary arrests, judicial harassment and even disappearances. their offices and headquarters are being raided by the police. these witchhunts are tailored to mask poor economic results in the country and paint the dictator mugabe to be a saviour and protector against fabricated enemies. international democratic and human rights organisations must continue to pressure zimbabwe and shine a light on these oppressive practices. the citizens of this beautiful country certainly deserve better.
for the efd group. first, i want to pay tribute to the doctors and medical staff who have taken the initiative to ensure that children are vaccinated against polio in such a dangerous environment as the taliban-controlled areas of pakistan. i think we all know that the pakistani government does not have sufficient control over the whole territory of their country and that we must nevertheless try to create the conditions for polio vaccination to be able to resume as soon as possible. i have no illusions that the taliban fighters will be able to access our reasonable arguments about the need to provide health care to children in taliban-controlled areas. nor do i have any illusions that the pakistani government is capable of providing adequate protection for medical personnel, especially since the taliban believe that the vaccine causes sterility in their children and the medical personnel work for the intelligence services. but i am aware of the significant authority of islamic clerics who could use their considerable influence in the islamic world to protect the health of islamic children and eliminate the xenophobic prejudices of taliban fighters. we should, i think, find a way to reach out to the spiritual authorities of the islamic world, who are also recognized by the taliban fighters, and seek their involvement in solving this problem. in order to protect the health of young children, we should also try to use this route for revaccination.
the taliban's excuse that there has been a past acquisition of classified information by medics for the media is unacceptable. the murderous attacks are motivated by rumors that polio vaccines are a western conspiracy to sterilize muslims. volunteers, especially women, who continue their work deserve our admiration. the neutrality of humanitarian work should be maintained in all countries of the world. i call for the vaccination program to be re-launched, as pakistan is one of the last three countries in the world where this disease is endemic. the eeas, who and the media must continue to support this programme. democratic and transparent elections will also help to resolve the situation.
the situation of women in north africa is not easy. what we hoped for two years ago has not come to pass. mrs costa has tried to reflect this situation in her report. in tunisia, egypt and libya, dictatorships lost power. the situation in all north african states is politically unstable and the european union, together with national governments, is not doing very well in the region. we saw this for example when we failed to foresee the muslim brotherhood's takeover in egypt. i am pleased that the report emphasises the political and economic empowerment of women and their contribution to building national reconciliation and prosperity. i fully support in particular the rapporteur's request that the commission support projects in these countries aimed at educating women, developing their creative potential, but also entrepreneurial activities. experience in these countries shows that such practical assistance and support is often key to building long-term stability. but at the same time, we are adopting a specifically european view, which sees women in isolation and ignores their ties to a cultural environment that is very different from ours. the demand for equality between women and men must be expressed in an approach that does not pit women and men against each other. only an integrated approach to equality can bring positive results for both men and women in north african countries.
mr president, i'm sure you are. recently, at a conference on the state of europe, a spanish legal philosopher made a startling statement. he said that in europe, class struggle had been replaced by new electoral lines. the key factors are the differences between parents who have children and those who do not. this is what i thought when i read the results of the latest eurobarometer report. one of the questions asked was what was the decisive criterion for the job interview in the case of recruitment. for women, the first criterion is whether they have children. the second is that he's available outside of work hours. the third is how it looks. and the fourth is age. for men, the situation is quite different, because here the first place is occupied by professional skills, and only the last - the tenth - by the question of whether or not to have children. i think this is a very worrying european... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. the eu is not only in an economic crisis, but also in a social crisis. it is this that is often underestimated. in the whirlwind of anti-crisis measures and senseless cuts, the social crisis is forgotten. but it is getting worse, and it affects women in particular. women in the eu have been hit by a silent crisis. although its effects have been slower and less intense than for men, male employment will recover more quickly, and the austerity measures introduced in the public service will affect women's work in a much more lasting way. women working in the public sector, where they represent on average 70% of the workforce, are the main victims of budgetary cuts by national governments. the reduction in the number of public sector employees reached up to 25% in some member states! in the public sector, wages are reduced or frozen. in 2011, 31.6% of women were in part-time employment. the european commission is no longer talking about parttime work, but about parttime unemployment! even if a woman is normally employed, her employment is often at a lower level of qualification than her educational attainment. measures to end the crisis must necessarily include a gender dimension! the european commission has a crucial role to play in this respect and must take a responsible stance on the issue!
between 2000 and 2010, european countries paid an average of about usd 200 billion annually for oil imports. in 2011, this account for oil imports reached usd 488 billion. despite the extensive structure of the european union's measures to permanently improve energy efficiency in the manufacturing sector, as well as in household consumption and transport, our energy procurement costs are rising. the union's heavy dependence on imported energy commodities should lead us to manage energy resources in a highly efficient, economical and sophisticated way. while accepting the commission's proposed target of increasing the share of renewable energy to 55% by 2050, i consider it important to point out that renewable energy production often does not guarantee the necessary stability of supply. therefore, i think that we will have to count on sufficient capacity, mainly from our own fuel sources, in the long-term forecasts for the time being.
for the efd group. in the european union, we operate some 130 nuclear reactors, which account for about 34% of the union's electricity production. france has the largest share of electricity from nuclear, up to 75% of its electricity production. slovakia is second with 54% and belgium third. when we consider that up to one third of the electricity in the european union comes from nuclear reactors, we also have to think about what needs to be done to prevent serious failures of these facilities. although the results of the stress tests showed that none of our nuclear power plants needed to be shut down for safety reasons, they did indicate that more could be done to keep them operating safely. it would therefore be appropriate for the commission to inform us of the measures it intends to take to contribute to the security of this energy sector.
one of the most important messages from japan is that we need to regularly check the actual safety status of our nuclear facilities. we must dispel the misconception that only an external crisis can lead us to the significance of the matter. the nuclear safety of the european union is a continuous process, which is why we need a comprehensive risk and safety assessment of european nuclear power plants. the stress tests have shown that there are no nuclear power plants in the eu that need to be shut down for technical reasons, but that all nuclear power plants need to be upgraded in terms of safety. these developments must be made as soon as possible, as the closure of more nuclear facilities would have a significant impact on europe's energy supply. to meet our energy needs, we certainly need nuclear energy. the slovak authorities have also provided the commission with information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. it would be an unsolvable problem if the nuclear power plants were to shut down.
i welcome the new proposal for a regulation on the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions, as timely and accurate data contribute to monitoring compliance with emission reduction rules. this approach is conducive to the objectives of the kyoto protocol, but also to the european union's higher-level objectives, which aim to make a significant contribution to environmental protection. in the context of the regulation, i particularly appreciate the effort to monitor the impact of maritime transport on greenhouse gas emissions, which we have not done so much in the past. this area will certainly require even more attention in the future. it is therefore essential that we ensure transparent monitoring, which will enable us to compare data from different member states without any doubt. the resulting picture will then help us to take concrete action to reduce emissions.
in order to continue to work towards the reduction and ultimately the eradication of poverty in the african, caribbean and pacific states, it is essential to respect development objectives when using the european development fund. i consider it most urgent to improve the conditions of women, who are among the most vulnerable. i believe that if we tackle this most pressing problem without delay, we will find it much easier to get out of the other problems and gradually achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. these objectives will be more easily achieved if the european development fund is included in the budget. i therefore consider that a reduction in the amount allocated to the development fund is unacceptable. but i want to highlight one big and important thing. under no circumstances may european aid be used to finance abortions in developing countries. this is certainly not a good presentation of the european union.
no one can avoid a problem with a good or service, but most of us are not strong enough to enforce our rights in a conventional court case, the cost of which can far exceed the value of the good or service provided. alternative dispute resolution is a simpler way of enforcing a right or otherwise resolving a dispute in a short period of time, without unnecessary costs. it is incumbent upon the union to take such measures as to ensure equal access to alternative dispute resolution and, in particular, to inform the public and businesses of this possibility. i agree with the argument that traders from member states where alternative dispute resolution is not sufficient are at a disadvantage compared to traders who can resolve disputes faster and easier because they are not as trustworthy. this imbalance is indeed an unnecessary obstacle to the single market.
the distinction between people on the basis of outward appearance, skin color, facial features, and so forth, has its roots in a history of ethnic and racial clashes over economic control of territory. differences in religious and cultural-civilizational customs have also contributed to the creation of national, ethnic, and racial aversions. we know from history many cases where a certain nation or cultural-civilization group claimed to be the chosen ones and shamelessly enslaved, decimated all the people who did not fit their characteristics of the chosen nation. the civilized world today rejects such a classification of people as good and bad by outward appearance or by cultural or religious practices. since historically long-established prejudices against races are still deeply rooted in society, we must expect that much more effort will be needed to create an environment of mutual respect and esteem among all people. and certainly not just in europe.
in writing. the european union is built on respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law, yet there is no clear consistent recognition of these principles in the member states. in fact, the recent economic crisis shows that we still face many shortcomings in respect for human rights. discrimination against minority groups is a persistent and unresolved problem at eu level. that is why i am missing from parliament's resolution on strengthening the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crime a specific reference to indigenous national minorities. the ep is not doing enough to tackle the problem of intolerance, incitement to hatred and intimidation against indigenous national minorities, who constitute a significant proportion of eu citizens. the recent statements by the slovak prime minister, which were directed not only against the hungarian community, the largest minority in the country, which accounts for 10% of the population, but also against slovak citizens belonging to all minorities, are far from european values and are unacceptable. this is unacceptable and condemnable for any eu member state or leader.
in writing. racism is the most dangerous division of mankind into mortal enemies. it takes many forms. today, the most dangerous are nationalism, anti-semitism, but also all phobias against immigrants or ethnic groups, such as the roma. all these forms of intolerance now share a common denominator, which is nationalism and anti-europeanism. it is only in the hysterical struggle against the project of european integration that there is a hidden celebration, even a worship, of national exclusivity. today it seems to be directed not against another nation but against the brussels bureaucracy. this is because the deepening of european integration is the definitive end of national animosity, but also the desire for national superiority, exceptionalism or superiority over other nations. european integration is a strong response to nationalism precisely because it ensures that each nation is on an equal footing and does not allow one to dominate the other. it's what's holding a lot of people back from their dream of being chosen. one of the reasons why we slovaks, by a large majority, support european integration is precisely the historical experience of our own nationalism, which led us to collaborate with hitler. but also from the experience of the expansive nationalism of our hungarian neighbour, which threatens our integrity, civil cohesion and european values. the fight for a united europe is crucial today because it forms a barrier against hateful racism and expansionist nationalism. it is a pity that many anti-europeans do not realize this.
in writing. − if you have sustainable, safe, reliable and affordable energy is one of the main challenges that unites europeans, from civil society to politicians, industry and environmentalists. although the european commission has defined ambitious energy policy objectives of competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and reduction of carbon emissions, we still face challenges such as a lack of integration in the internal energy market, the significant energy isolation of certain geographical areas, the lack of access to diversified energy sources that contribute to energy security, and the lack of concrete benefits for consumers and businesses in terms of prices and sustainability. this overall situation and the considerable degree of interdependence between individual member states require an approach at european level. more rapid, decisive and coordinated action is desirable and it is equally justified for europe to play a greater role in coordinating and integrating national efforts.
in writing. − since 1999, infrastructure has been improved and extended at vienna airport through a series of construction projects approved by the austrian federal ministry of transport, innovation and technology. in 2006, the complainants first submitted a complaint to the european commission, which concluded that an environmental impact assessment under directive 85/337/eec was warranted. the complainants were critical of the way the commission had handled the case and lodged a complaint with the european ombudsman. in assessing the arguments of the parties received after the draft recommendation, the ombudsman recalls that he had already stated that the commission's decision to invite austria to carry out an ex post environmental impact assessment was appropriate and reasonable in principle in the circumstances. it therefore remains to be examined whether the commission ensured that this ex post environmental impact assessment was carried out correctly.
in writing. − land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) accounting is a key element of climate change policy, with the potential to contribute to, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of natural resources. it is necessary and justified to introduce firm rules for the accounting of emissions and removals arising from the implementation of lulucf activities. the obligation to identify and account for emissions and removals from the full range of emission-related land-related activity categories is an important step towards integrating these sectors into the union's emission reduction efforts. in this context, the accounting for drainage and re-irrigation of wetlands by some member states and not others also leads to irregularities across the union. i consider it justified for member states to review measures to reduce emissions and to maintain or increase removals from the categories of activities covered by this decision. these activities should, in particular, identify developments and also explore possibilities for further integration into other union policies. in this context, it is of the utmost importance to maintain transparency and ensure public participation.
in writing. − timely, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data are essential to make it clear whether the eu and its member states are on track to meet their targets, and also to develop new and bold policies to tackle climate change. the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions replaces the monitoring mechanism established by directive 280/2004/ec. although the provisions of the regulation on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions are similar to the requirements under decision 280/2004/ec, the commission has proposed some improvements. the proposed objectives include, inter alia, supporting member states in implementing the climate and energy package, improving the timeliness, transparency and comparability of reported data, facilitating the development of new union climate change instruments, and ensuring that the union and its member states comply with international monitoring and reporting obligations, including reporting on support to developing countries.
in writing. − if you have the commission proposal aims to establish a european platform for online dispute resolution (the 'osr platform'). it will be an interactive website offering consumers and traders a single point of access to out-of-court settlement of certain disputes contractual disputes arising from the cross-border online sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer established in another member state. the platform will be free of charge and available in all official eu languages. the proposed directive aims to improve redress possibilities for consumers by ensuring that all consumer complaints can be submitted to an adr entity (e.g. an arbitrator, conciliator, ombudsman or complaints board) for out-of-court resolution. the platform will enable the parties and the adr entity to implement the online dispute resolution procedure. the network of dsos will be established to support the resolution of disputes referred by the dsb platform.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumer disputes aims to provide a simple, efficient and low-cost means of dispute resolution involving the sale of goods or the provision of services throughout the european union. once implemented, this directive will enable all eu-based consumers to have access to a quality adr entity if they have problems with the purchase of goods or the provision of services whether at home or abroad from a trader established in an eu member state. although consumer protection has improved since the single market was established, 'gaps' still remain that make life difficult for european citizens. the proposed directive aims essentially to remove the three most serious obstacles to consumers and traders' access to a well-functioning adr entity. in the first case, we are talking about the fact that the coverage of the ars is still not uniform either at sectoral or geographical level. second, many consumers are simply not aware of or sufficiently informed about the benefits of using adr mechanisms. finally, if ars systems exist, their quality varies greatly and often does not meet the quality principles set out in the commission's recommendations. the aim is to ensure that consumers have access to high-quality and transparent adr procedures wherever they make their purchases in the union.
in writing. − if you have as promoters of european standards and values, the overseas countries and territories (octs) are europe's outpost and its asset. they are called upon to contribute to the role that europe wants to play on a global scale. given their location in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic ocean or the pacific ocean, they face new challenges that europe must also face, such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental problems and risks related to weather fluctuations. they must therefore be developed in a sustainable way. given their natural assets and the opportunities for action they offer, the octs can easily become essential elements of european union strategies and innovative contributors to international negotiations. the current overseas association decision of 2001 provides a legal framework to promote the octs' social and economic development and their economic relations with the eu. it shall expire on 31 december 2013. the renewal of the association framework is of crucial importance for the octs. from this point of view, i therefore consider the proposal for a new octs association decision adopted by the college of commissioners in july 2012 to be highly justified.
in writing. − on 3 november 1998, the council adopted directive 98/83/ec on the quality of water intended for human consumption. this new directive had to be transposed into national law by the end of 2000 and complied with by the end of 2003. contamination of drinking water with radioactive substances may occur through accidental releases of radioactivity or through the use of inappropriate disposal procedures. water systems that are at risk of such contamination shall be subject to extensive monitoring of radioactive contamination to ensure that drinking water is safe. there are many regions in europe with such geological and hydrological characteristics that they have to be considered with the worrying possibility of natural occurrence of radioactive substances. therefore, on 27 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal laying down requirements for the protection of public health with regard to radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption on the basis of article 31 of the euratom treaty. i believe that each member state should set up monitoring programmes to check that water intended for human consumption meets the requirements of this directive. at the same time, the methods used to analyse the quality of water intended for human consumption should be such as to ensure the reliability and comparability of its results.
in writing. − i appreciate the clear adoption today of the report on the safety of drinking water in relation to radioactive substances. protecting the health of our population is the most important thing we can do for our children's future. as a shadow rapporteur, i have clearly supported stricter standards for drinking water, given that infant formula is often prepared from tap water in households. similarly, we must distinguish between natural and artificial radioactivity, where the risks associated with the contamination of drinking water sources must be borne by the polluter. during the negotiations, we supported the change of legal basis from the euratom treaty to the lisbon treaty, as legal certainty and harmonisation of water quality legislation was our priority. in the situation that has arisen, the commission must therefore draw up a new proposal, which will be returned to the european parliament for approval.
in writing. − i supported the report and i agree with the measures that can contribute to the protection of europe's water resources. water is a natural renewable resource that is relatively inexhaustible, but is regionally scarce over large areas. the status of eu waters cannot be considered satisfactory in terms of their quality. the serious threats to water policy are illustrated by the fact that freshwater represents only about 2% of the planet's water and competing demands are estimated to reduce up to 40% of global water supplies by 2030. one of the eu's priority health objectives is to ensure that water in any form is in good condition in order to maximise the protection of human health. the problem that may be of greatest concern today is the pollution of water intended for human consumption and the lack of consumer awareness of water quality and the setting of mandatory standards for water intended for human consumption. the eu needs to harmonise legislation at member state level on the protection of drinking water from radioactive contamination, as well as on controls and consequences for infringements.
in writing. − if you have the safety and quality of drinking water for european citizens must be at the forefront of any policy aimed at protecting human health and the environment, alongside air quality. although drinking water quality is currently regulated by council directive 98/83/ec, including the regulation of toxic chemicals and radionuclides, monitoring of the total indicative dose is still not carried out. it is therefore necessary to incorporate the relevant requirements in the new specific legislation instead of the water quality directive.
i would like to comment on the so-called two-pack, which is the necessary strengthening of the stability and growth pact in view of dealing with the consequences of the financial crisis and public debt. the serious economic and social situations in some member states require us to take preventive measures to prevent further indebtedness. it's the same for the others. there are member states of the european union which are experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area. the two-pack is fighting the financial crisis and the public debt crisis. but it is good that there is a democratic principle involved, because the council can reject the commission's proposals by a simple majority.
in writing. − the proposed regulation on strengthening economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area is being integrated into the context of the financial and public debt crises currently facing the european union. he learns from the situation and proposes a solution. the serious economic and social consequences that some member states are currently facing could have been avoided by taking preventive and targeted measures. however, the european union did not have the necessary instruments at that time. the correction should therefore be made now, by combining the six-pack and the two new files (the two-pack) to which this proposal belongs. it is justified to make efforts to strengthen the six-pack so as to ensure financial stability and, at the same time, economic growth in the euro area.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires member states to regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern, to have their budgetary policies guided by the need for sound public finances and to ensure that their economic policies do not jeopardise the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. the amendments to the stability and growth pact have strengthened the guidelines and, for member states whose currency is the euro, the incentives to define and implement prudent fiscal policies, while avoiding excessive government deficits. at union level, these provisions have established a stronger framework for the surveillance of national economic policies. the treaty allows specific measures to be adopted in the euro area, going beyond the provisions applicable to all member states, in order to ensure the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. the establishment of a common budgetary timetable for member states whose currency is the euro should better synchronise the key steps in the preparation of national budgets, thus contributing to the effectiveness of the european semester for the coordination of budgetary policies. the adoption of a common budgetary timetable should lead to enhanced synergies by facilitating policy coordination between member states with a common european currency and ensure that the recommendations of the council and the commission are incorporated accordingly into the national budgetary adoption process.
in writing. − i supported the commission's proposals, which complement the six-pack of european economic governance legislation. the so-called six-pack was adopted by the european parliament and the council back in 2011. but time has shown that this package needs to be strengthened to ensure financial stability while creating the conditions for economic growth in the euro area. we have seen how several member states have been forced to ask for financial assistance. they were forced to do so by high budget deficits or by the problems of the banking sector caused by the crisis and the bad decisions of their managers. preventive measures are needed to avoid similar situations in the future. they are more acceptable even to the citizens of the states concerned than a drastic correction, which is sometimes late. the sensitive point of all such proposals, however, is the loss of a large part of the national sovereignty of a country in trouble. citizens of such a state may feel that their lives are being decided without them. this can lead to irrational steps of a magnitude that we cannot even imagine today.
i supported the report because i believe that the process of creating a european venture capital fund can play a very important role in widening access to finance for smes. despite the report's finding that all member states have improved their innovation performance, the growth of innovation performance in the eu is slowing down and still fails to catch up with the best countries in the world. there are several reasons for this. however, i would like to point out at least some of them, including the disparity between the rules applicable to the investor category and those applicable to venture capital funds, the tax barriers to cross-border venture capital investments, the lack of eu funding for start-up financing, and the absence of an effective venture capital sector. i therefore welcome the commission's efforts to remove the remaining regulatory barriers to crossborder capital by means of a regulation and expect that access to it by eu member states will improve.
in writing. − venture capital provides financing to companies that show strong growth and expansion potential at the early stages of their business existence. although venture capital funds often invest in start-ups, in certain cases it is appropriate to invest in the transformation of companies that have been established for less than five years. by providing finance and advice to those enterprises, the funds stimulate economic growth, contribute to job creation and capital mobilisation, foster the creation and expansion of innovative enterprises, increase their investment in research and development and support entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness in line with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and in the context of long-term challenges faced by member states, such as those identified in the european strategy and policy analysis system report on global trends to 2030. it is necessary to establish a common framework of rules concerning the use of the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund' by means of uniform rules in the union, in particular as regards the composition of the portfolio of funds operating under that designation, their eligible investment objectives, the investment instruments they may use and the categories of investors who are eligible to invest in such funds. in the absence of such a common framework, there is a risk that member states will adopt different measures at national level, which would have a direct negative impact on the proper functioning of the internal market.
social enterprises offer solutions to social problems, help address the consequences of the financial crisis and also make a valuable contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the strategy 2020. i supported the report because i believe that the regulation on european social entrepreneurship funds can create better conditions for the creation of a legal framework for the various investment funds that apply for authorisation to be designated as european social entrepreneurship funds. at the same time, i expect that the proposed regulation will not only create uniform rules for the european social entrepreneurship fund, but also ensure the harmonisation of the two previous european parliament directives containing rules governing investment funds and their management and rules applicable to investors in these funds. social entrepreneurship provides a space for the integration of various vulnerable groups and enables them to gradually lift themselves out of poverty and social exclusion and, above all, gives them a chance to apply themselves in the classical labour market.
although i supported the report, i have a few critical remarks. social enterprises have become synonymous with meaningless support from public sources in slovakia. not only are they easily abused, but checks have revealed inefficiencies in the use of this support. it has been shown that these enterprises are at best functioning as long as they receive money from the state. not a day longer. moreover, the cost of each job created is disproportionately high. i understand the commission and council's desire to have greater control over social enterprises. but i'm also very skeptical that more bureaucracy is the right answer to the waste of public resources.
in writing. − as investors increasingly seek to achieve social objectives and not just financial returns, a social investment market is emerging in the union, partly constituted by investment funds targeting social enterprises. such investment funds shall provide funding to social enterprises that act as drivers of social change by offering innovative solutions to social problems, helping to address the social consequences of the financial crisis and contributing in a valuable way to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. it is necessary to establish a common framework of rules concerning the use of the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund' by means of uniform rules in the union. in the absence of such a common framework, there is a risk that member states would adopt different measures at national level, which would have a direct negative impact on the proper functioning of the internal market and would create obstacles to the proper functioning of that market, as funds wishing to operate across the union would be subject to different rules in different member states. i consider it justified to adopt a regulation laying down uniform rules applicable to european social entrepreneurship funds and imposing corresponding obligations on their managers in all member states who wish to raise capital across the union using the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund'. those requirements should ensure the confidence of investors wishing to invest in such funds.
in writing. − the considerable impact of social enterprises is a unique tool to address the situation of disadvantaged jobseekers. the european social entrepreneurship funds that support these enterprises thus become a unique remedy for the various consequences of the financial and economic crisis. i consider it extremely important that appropriate legislation establishes the reputation of social entrepreneurship funds, ensures the credibility of the managers and removes any ambiguity in the use of the funds' resources. the funds may not use funds for any purpose other than those for which they are committed. this must be spoken and strictly observed! i support the wording of this regulation because in a time of crisis it is necessary to take measures which will lead to the elimination of its consequences at union level.
gender equality is one of the most important indicators of the level of development of any democratic society and should be taken for granted. at the level of the member states of the european union, there are still many inequalities between women and men in the exercise of social life. i am pleased and grateful to the european union for its continuous support for measures to improve the situation of women and their implementation in practice. what i regret is that all the austerity measures implemented at member state level in the framework of economic and financial policy have and will have a significant impact on women. for the sake of illustration, the employment rate of women is well below that of men. women have higher unemployment and long-term unemployment, and are disproportionately underrepresented in managerial positions. i supported the report because i think it is well-crafted and comes with concrete proposals to tackle gender equality.
we realize that we're talking about a crisis. the crisis is directly linked to the economic recession and the consequent decline in employment. often, women who would like to work have to stay at home while caring for their children because they cannot afford preschool facilities. if the state paid for their care of children, family members and household up to at least unemployment benefits and paid for them health and social insurance, this would significantly reduce the paper unemployment of women. a woman who takes care of a child is not unemployed even on holiday. such measures would not entail any additional costs for the state. women's freedom of choice and space for a genuine reconciliation of family and work life would be increased. the prestige of motherhood and access to responsible parenting would be enhanced. i congratulate my colleague tannock on his contribution.
in writing. − in 2008, at the onset of the economic crisis, the direct impact on men's work was stronger than on women's work. women were not the first victims of the crisis, but the situation has gradually worsened since 2009. women in the eu have been hit by a silent crisis. its effects were slower and less pronounced than in men. but they cannot be ignored. women in the public sector, where they represent on average 70% of the workforce, are the main victims of budgetary cuts decided by member state governments. the reduction in the number of public sector employees reached 25% in some member states. moreover, salaries in the public sector have been reduced or frozen and it is common practice that fixed-term contracts are not renewed. for women who have stayed in employment, the job is often at a lower level of qualification than they have achieved, and they keep the job at the risk of losing their qualifications. job prospects for the coming years show that 15% of low-skilled jobs will disappear, while 15% of new jobs will require high-skilled skills. i think it is very important to consider all training policies, taking into account the special position of women.
in writing. − as a result of the crisis, the position of women, their working conditions, have become much more precarious. budget cuts also have a significant impact on women. their professional advancement is precarious, and in many cases they have no formal employment contract or work part-time. as a result, they have less income, which also leads to lower pensions. with reduced social benefits, health care and sickness benefits, and reduced child care budgets, women are often forced to give up their jobs to provide for dependent family members. in other cases, they undertake additional tasks to ensure that costs are covered. single parents, most of whom are women, are at risk of poverty as a result of reductions in family allowances. i agree that negotiations with the social partners should be conducted to achieve a better balance between family and professional life and to contribute to the retention of women in the workforce by improving childcare facilities. families with women in employment have higher family incomes, and therefore higher consumption, which leads to economic growth. member states should strongly encourage women's entrepreneurship and job creation in the social and solidarity-based sectors of the economy. i believe that the report adopted can improve the situation of economically disadvantaged groups, including women, and that is why i supported it.
in writing. − the crisis is having a negative impact on labour markets across the eu. year after year, we're looking at the rising unemployment rate. another problem is the huge gender pay gap. in 2010, this difference was 16,5%. we have not made much progress on anti-discrimination measures either, and traditional gender roles persist in employment. although women are slowly but surely catching up with men in the labour markets, their position in society remains uncertain. the newly filled positions are also usually the first to be filled out of the company in the event of even the slightest problems. they are also more likely to be part-time, to take up lower starting jobs or to be over-represented in unpaid work, putting them at risk of slow career growth. i believe it is high time that we overcome the persistent stereotypes in the perception of the position of women and men in the labour market and make it easier for women to reconcile work and family life. this is the path we should take if we want to improve the living conditions not only of women but of society as a whole, which depends in large part on their work and role in the family and society.
i also supported this report because, in my view, in the more than 15 years since the adoption of the beijing declaration and platform for action on the elimination of all obstacles to women's active participation, little progress has been made in the area of gender stereotypes and gender inequalities. there are many examples within eu member states where stereotypes and gender inequality are still common problems. i therefore regard it as a priority for the individual eu member states to tackle this issue. i expect the eu to take effective measures within its competences to help reduce the risk and/or eliminate the negative consequences of gender stereotypes. this is particularly the case in the areas of legislation, social security, education, the media, employment, remuneration. i also expect the european union, in cooperation with the european institute for gender equality, to develop the necessary new indicators in the field of gender stereotypes and analytical reports for a more objective assessment of the field.
i could not support ms liotard's report on gender stereotypes, although i agree with several of the rapporteur's suggestions. i agree with the need to combat violence against women, discrimination in employment and education, and i also agree with the view that pornography is harmful. but i cannot support the radical understanding of gender stereotypes, which is now defined as everything that makes a woman a woman. motherhood, the ability to help, to care and to nurture, simply the ability to give love to every woman. the manifestations of this gift of every woman are not stereotypes but facts of human existence. those who deny these facts are building a utopia in which mothers are no longer living, but only pregnant and nursing workers. and such a utopia is doomed to a rapid extinction.
in writing. − gender equality is a fundamental human right. pursuant to article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union shall aim, in all its activities, at eliminating inequalities and at promoting equality between men and women. stereotyped perceptions of women in the labour market lead to occupational segregation and gender pay gaps. the gender pay gap of 16.4% in 2010 shows the seriousness of this problem. in addition, women are often underrepresented or ignored in the media or portrayed in roles traditionally considered female, which encourages the reinforcement of gender discrimination in different areas of society and across all age groups. the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes based on societal beliefs and attitudes affects women and limits their opportunities and options in the social, economic and political spheres. in order to address the lack of women in senior positions in economic and political decision-making, the persistence of gender stereotypes in all layers of society needs to be addressed. the report therefore aims to reduce the prevalence of negative gender stereotypes in the eu, which limit the opportunities and possibilities of men, and even more so of women. the elimination of gender stereotypes in education, media and advertising, the labour market and economic and political decision-making requires new eu policies and legislation.
in writing. − much eu legislation takes the form of directives, which set out general rules and objectives. however, the choice of means to achieve them is left to the member states and the regional and local authorities. the lack of a satisfactory level of implementation of eu environmental law is reflected in the high number of environmental infringements and complaints. there are significant differences in the implementation of legislation between member states as well as within member states, which lead to negative environmental impacts and thus to the need for a more systematic and holistic approach, which is essential to overcome these 'implementation gaps'. as recently as 2011, the environment was the area with the highest number of reported breaches of union law in the eu (299), accounting for 17% of all breaches, and 114 new infringement procedures were initiated in the same year. full compliance with eu environmental legislation is a treaty obligation and a criterion for the use of eu funds in the member states. i believe that member states should therefore implement environmental legislation in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to improve the state of the environment in the eu as a whole.
in writing. − the environment is a necessary condition for our existence and survival. it should therefore be a matter of course and a necessity for us to protect it and to create all the conditions and procedures to protect the environment and promote sustainable development. i supported the report because the commission is putting forward proposals and procedures that can significantly help member states to enhance the importance of cooperation with the eu on the environment. the need to address the environment is all the more pressing as the evidence confirms that in many cases we are moving away from sustainability rather than towards it within the eu. the current lack of enforcement of environmental legislation costs us many billions of euros a year. i therefore support all initiatives that create opportunities for improving the environmental legislation adopted so far. however, i also expect greater interest and effort from member states in implementing the rules, particularly in the area of environmental information, improving the knowledge and skills of those involved in implementing the legislation and disseminating best practice among member states.
it is logical that the preparation of the 2014 budget should follow on from the commission's management in previous years, in particular in 2013, taking into account the political priorities and financial parameters set by the council in the multiannual financial framework. although the financial framework for the years 2014-2020 has not yet been approved by parliament, we know that member states have already defined their commitments for that period, amounting to eur 960 billion. i think that is a fairly clear message from the member states to the commission and parliament that saving and using taxpayers' money more efficiently is not just about our citizens and states, but also about the european institutions and their activities. if the european commission is still unable to define the ceiling for the 2014 commitment appropriations, it should also, in relation to outstanding union commitments, initiate expert consultations with the council and parliament on the technique for settling old outstanding commitments and on the correct setting of the ceiling for 2014.
2014 will be the first year of application of the new multiannual financial framework. this is why the priority of the european budget in 2014 must be to maintain economic growth and competitiveness, but also to boost employment and combat the ever-growing unemployment. we must face the important facts. the budget of the european union represents only 1% of the union's gdp. this is an investment budget and up to 94% of its resources are returned to the member states and thus to european citizens through european policies and programmes. i can give you a specific example, since i am from slovakia. if the slovak republic did not have resources from the european union, slovakia would be in recession today, 76% of public investments would not be realized and unemployment would be significantly higher. but this also applies to other countries of the european union. let us not therefore see the european union budget as a burden, but as an effective instrument to boost investment, growth and jobs, as an effective instrument to combat the crisis. without a contribution from our european budget, public investment in the regions and member states would be minimal, if not impossible. i am therefore firmly convinced that any reduction in the european budget will lead to an increase in imbalances, will hamper growth and the competitiveness of the entire european union economy. let us not compromise our european cohesion and the principle of solidarity, which is our core value. this will ultimately have a negative impact on our citizens, those who are feeling the effects of the crisis firsthand.
i was intrigued by the demand to develop a more comprehensive method for measuring economic well-being. i regularly point out that fixation on gdp causes selective blindness, because gdp does not see the work done in households, which has a quantifiable value. "families and households are small factories", writes nobel prize-winning economist gary becker. time spent working in the household predicts that services and goods produced by the household account for a significant proportion of the economic output of nations. it is a european trend to increase the employment of women. one argument is the rise in gdp in countries like sweden. but if the number of hours women spend on childcare and household work decreases with this increase it is not an increase in well-being. only the mother's work miraculously adds to gdp after the mother pays someone to take care of her children, cook and clean.
the meaningful recording and reporting of economic data by states is a fundamental starting point for the qualified definition of their economic policy. the improvement of the european system of national and regional accounts should therefore contribute to improving quality and transparency so that the statistical monitoring, management and evaluation of the economies of countries is in line with their economic reality. with a view to a realistic assessment of the economic situation of the union, it is necessary that member states provide reliable, comparable and up-to-date statistical data on their economic activities, which are processed in accordance with a uniform methodology applicable in the european union. i therefore also consider it necessary to support the request made in the report submitted for the commission to amend the data transmission programme in annex b, which does not meet the parameters of simplicity, clarity and transparency as proposed.
the report says that endocrine disruptors have estrogenic or antiestrogenic effects. we read that there's an increase in reproductive disorders, decreased sperm quality, decreased fertility, an increase in testicular cancer, premature puberty, genital deformities, birth defects, a dramatic increase in breast cancers. i welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur. let me just make a little note. in every report where it is possible, the european parliament promotes chemical contraception as a method of family planning. however, in this report we have not had the courage to express even a suspicion that the hormones used in contraception, when they are discharged into water, should not be considered endocrine disruptors affecting the human reproductive system.
i think it is necessary to say at the outset that i have no objection to the european union reviewing and updating its migration policy. on the other hand, i cannot ignore the fact that restrictions on the european labour market still apply to labour from some of the new member states. as long as skilled professionals from romania or bulgaria are also kept out of jobs in britain or elsewhere, we will hardly be able to say that we need to source labour from third countries. perhaps if we had encouraged more labour mobility within the union, neither the spanish nor the greek governments would have had to pay unemployment benefits to up to a quarter of the working population. and perhaps if the union consistently implemented a really effective policy of promoting fertility with appropriate help for young families, the fear of further demographic developments in europe would cease to be a threat. ladies and gentlemen, the argument that we don't have enough experts is simply that our education policy is failing when, despite massive financial support, it fails to prepare enough specialists.
the less educated, the vulnerable, those at risk of exclusion, those with health problems, physical, mental, but especially combined difficulties, when they have both physical and mental handicaps, are precisely the people who are most vulnerable and who can be the first target in times of crisis when they lose their jobs or fall into poverty. even in times when there is no crisis, these people are at the very edge of the social possibilities of the system, and i am glad that parliament is discussing this important task at 11.20 p.m. tonight, despite the advanced time. i am very encouraged by the commissioner's words, which show that europe is also a signatory to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and that the european union is looking for reserves to take care of these people.
in writing. the crisis has hit the most vulnerable social groups, which are dependent on a higher degree of solidarity, otherwise they risk poverty and exclusion. one such group is disabled citizens. for people with disabilities, it is particularly important that the savings measures do not affect primary care. it is also necessary to prevent discrimination in access to employment and occupation and to promote the social inclusion of persons with disabilities. unfortunately, there remains a huge scope for improving the integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on the commission to draw up specific proposals to increase the protection of citizens with disabilities from the effects of the crisis.
the adoption of the multiannual financial framework until 2020 is not a matter of competence. even the target is clear. parliament and the council share the same wish for prosperity and well-being for every citizen of the european union. they differ in how they achieve this goal. the heads of government of the member states say that savings are needed. at the same time, however, more and more countries are saying they will exceed the 3% of gdp deficit threshold. instead, parliament's leaders want to boost investment to kick-start economic growth. but central planning has usually always ended in failure. and citizens want to save and invest at the same time. parliament is holding the council in check and if no agreement is reached, the budget will automatically increase next year. the council is stalling because it expects that a year before the elections, meps will be frightened by the bad image of the eurocrats, who citizens think earn more than chancellor merkel and spend taxpayers' money. i agree with joseph daul that we cannot be pessimistic and build a financial framework on the assumption that the crisis will be here for another seven years. let us be realistic and find a way to adopt a financial framework that can be expanded or reduced according to how we manage to overcome the crisis together and restore prosperity throughout europe without discrimination.
in the context of the european council, i think it is necessary to recall not only the importance of the issue of the multiannual financial framework. when we talk about the union's multiannual financial framework, we are only talking about the transposition of political priorities for a given period into financial terms. but there should be more to these negotiations. increasingly, our citizens are expressing concerns about their own future or legitimate questions about what we are really arguing about and what we are doing for them. the deteriorating social situation of people across the european union, the deepening of the social crisis and its effects, the enormous increase in unemployment, the declining quality of life, no prospects for young people, all this is in stark contrast to the figures in the multiannual financial framework. the citizens need to hear what concrete measures we are taking for them. the figures in the multiannual financial framework are far away from them, and we here in the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, are the ones who have been given a mandate by the people to protect their interests, not the interests of governments and institutions.
the situation in egypt is a consequence of both the revolution and democratization. it also includes the internal development of the muslim brotherhood, the adaptation of the islamic vision to democratic practices. it's not an easy process. there are opinions that it is in the interest of the european union or the united states to let morsi fall. it would, they said, avert the threat of a new autocracy, discredit the muslim brotherhood, and allow a liberal opposition or military to come to power. this course of action would be a strategic mistake. islamic politics cannot be suppressed, but it is possible to make it democratic. just as christians did after world war ii, and christian democratic parties emerged. the muslim brotherhood needs to go through a process of transformation to a more or less standard side. that requires experience with real governance and responsibility. without this transformation, egyptian democracy has no chance.
the increasing street violence with numerous victims and injured, the failure of dialogue between the government and the opposition, the rapid deterioration of the economic situation, as well as the growing number of abused women in egypt are extremely worrying. i also consider unacceptable restrictions on freedom of religion, the activities of journalists, the right to peaceful assembly and the funding of ngos. the process of transformation always requires the sustained effort and commitment of all involved. it is essential to express support for egyptian civil society, to call for respect for freedoms while adopting a legal framework to combat impunity and protect human rights, and to call on the government to immediately launch a national dialogue with stakeholders. the government must also ensure free, fair and transparent elections with the participation of all constituencies in order to continue the process of transition to genuine democracy.
the situation in egypt is becoming critical. the developments show that the ideals of the arab spring are sadly fading and egyptian society is becoming increasingly polarized. we are witnessing not only more frequent mass demonstrations, but also restrictive policies by state institutions and restrictions on political and civil rights, and what is more, in many cases human rights, minority rights and women's rights are also undermined. for the eu, egypt is a strategic country in north africa. unfortunately, it's becoming a bad example of democratic transformation. it is therefore necessary for the union to use all its means to strengthen democracy, civil society and fundamental human and civil rights. i trust that the high representative will be a strong advocate of these principles. i would like to draw mrs ashton's attention once again to the case of mrs azabova, a slovak national, who has been searching in egypt for several years for her kidnapped son, to no avail.
mr president, if the eu wants to become more directly involved in the korean stand-off, it should first of all upgrade its political presence in the east asian region. our activeness in myanmar shows that this is possible. as for the nuclear crisis, the eu can also contribute, for instance, by making use of its strategic partnership with china and russia. the chinese position vis-à-vis the north koreans will be decisive, but russia’s will be no less important. keeping both powers engaged and constructive is a huge task and one that offers ample scope for eu diplomatic action.
i too would like to express my concern and frustration with the humanitarian crisis that persists in syria. i am concerned that it will escalate further in the near future and that it may not only destabilise the region but also have a negative impact on eu countries. i also fear that even after the civil war may have ended, the humanitarian situation for syrians will not improve. syria is an example of a crumbling state, and it will take decades to stabilize and rebuild. we must therefore be realistic about our situation and look for possible solutions. i agree with the comments that a political solution to the syrian civil war is needed. we need to look for him not only inside syria, but outside of it as well. in this respect, the union should step up its political and diplomatic role. however, the humanitarian crisis needs to be addressed immediately. i believe that the european union has the means to contribute to a solution and to help mobilize aid to relieve the burden on syria's neighbors. the escalation of humanitarian problems in these countries could plunge the entire region into a deep crisis.
mr president, for nearly two years the european union pursued a policy of restraint and caution in syria. perhaps it was the right strategy at the time, but instead of getting closer to a resolution, the civil war in syria reached a stalemate that could last for years and devastate the country for decades to come. i therefore support the calls of the british and french governments to ease the conditions of the eu arms embargo so that we can provide adequate support to the opposition. however, it should be a decision taken by the eu as a whole, and of course, coordinated with the us, turkey and the arab league. maybe such action could support the arab league to intervene and help establish an interim government in syria. i am well aware of the risks of supplying lethal assistance to the rebels. however, as things stand today, and in view of the humanitarian situation in syria, the risks of inaction are higher.
i am pleased that the recent eu-ukraine summit formally confirmed the will of both sides to deepen relations. however, i cannot help feeling that ukrainian officials sometimes work more to test the union's patience than to deepen mutual relations. this is not the way. ukraine is a key player for the union in the region. its political importance is an important indicator for the establishment of mutual relations. their effective deepening can bring tangible benefits to both parties. the last summit confirmed that we want to walk the same path with ukraine. it is a european pathway towards an association agreement and a dcfta. we have clear rules. however, their implementation is entirely in the hands of ukrainian politicians. i guess it shouldn't be that hard for them, because they have the support of their own citizens, who would ultimately feel the benefits of eu membership the most. confidence in justice and the functioning of democratic institutions in ukraine must be a clear limit for the union in relation to that country. in my view, as long as problems with selective justice and doubts about the functioning of the legal system persist in ukraine, it is questionable whether the signing of the association agreement and the dcfta will bring the expected positive impact for both partners.
i am convinced that it makes sense to continue a patient and constructive dialogue with all relevant political forces in ukraine. the political culture in this country is still marked by a strong polarization between the blocs of tymoshenko and yanukovych, and both groups continue to cross the boundaries of fair political competition, but our aim should be to attract the citizens of ukraine to european culture and civilization. we must therefore continue to explain to ukraine's political leaders that political competition must not degenerate into a power struggle without any rules, which generates hostility and hatred even among the population. responsibility of politicians is crucial in this nervous environment, and therefore our demand for a more decent, constructive and responsible work must be directed towards them. the union should also play a mediator role between the hostile camps in order to bring the country out of the ongoing political war.
i see the strategic partnership with china as a test of the viability of our foreign policy. given the potential of the chinese market, several eu member states prefer bilateral relations. we have to get over it. without a common approach, each member state will be the weaker partner in relation to china. secondly, we cannot reduce our partnership with china to the economy, it's a faulty logic. china is an important geopolitical partner. without a strategic dialogue with china, the european union cannot achieve its global objectives. third, we must not view our partnership with china solely through the lens of u.s.-china relations. this offers us only two alternatives: a closer transatlantic alliance against china, or a role as a mediator between china and america a role unencumbered by direct security interests in the pacific region. it's a false dichotomy. the eu must develop relations with china as an autonomous, separate actor. to follow our interests and values and the priorities of our allies.
i would like to thank my colleague mr belder for his draft balanced report on china. i appreciate that, in addition to highlighting the importance of eu-china cooperation in the fields of economy, science and research, he also drew attention to the persistent shortcomings shortcomings in respect for human rights, in particular in the areas of freedom of thought and expression, freedom of religion or the right to a fair trial. less than a year ago, i initiated a resolution in this house that criticized the chinese government's one-child policy. i am therefore a little disappointed that the report only gives the number and date of the resolution. if we want the chinese communists to change their reprehensible population policy, we must be more consistent in reminding them of its inhuman character. it is not just the tibetan monks and the tibetan people who deserve our continued political and humanitarian support. it is also deserved by every chinese mother whose unborn child is forcibly taken away by the state and killed, severely damaging her physical and mental health in the process. it is a pity that the european commission is also supporting, from the union's general budget, ngos which support abortion clinics and forced sterilisation in china.
china's rapid economic growth is increasingly strengthening its position as an economic, military and technological power in asia. its importance as a global player is growing, and our relations with it need to be given due attention. i think that is why the factual and objective character of mr belder's report, which has been carefully prepared, on china, its internal and external policies, its economy and its economic and power manifestations, must be appreciated. although china's political scene is still based on communist foundations, its acceptance of market economy rules and perhaps a specific business environment allows it to enjoy dynamic economic growth, supported by rapidly growing domestic consumption. however, a direct society conceals many potential problems that a regime cannot deal with with dignity without granting fundamental rights to the citizens of its country.
we know that the european police agency is cooperating in an investigation into the manipulation of football match results by a singapore-based stall syndicate. according to the information available, almost 700 match fixing cases are under investigation worldwide involving more than 400 prepaid players and referees from 15 countries. the hungarian investigating authorities also obtained evidence confirming match-fixing from their country. the hungarian group was allegedly involved in influencing the results for the east asian cartel in 2010. the mafia members who bribed the referees and players then bet between eur 50 and 100 thousand on selected matches and subsequently collected almost ten times the winnings. for example, one of the investigated football matches between argentina and bolivia, which was conducted by hungarian referees in 2008, was decided by the only goal, which was scored at the end of the game in extra time, from a penalty kick. it is therefore our fundamental duty to vigorously combat such practices.
in writing. sport as such is one of the few activities that unites people around the world. it is global in nature and brings people joy, competition and competition. it is therefore very disturbing that it is in sports that corruption has recently increased. football matches became the main target of manipulation, but corruption also permeated other sports. the corruption of clubs, referees and athletes themselves has a negative impact on the regularity of sporting events. all of this is affected by criminal groups in their illegal activities of money laundering, human trafficking and drug trafficking. according to europol's discovery, this is just the tip of the iceberg and it's an illegal activity that's making a lot of money. it is therefore necessary to establish a better system of control of the financing of sports organisations and clubs in order to prevent unethical behaviour by club owners, referees and sportsmen themselves. that the sanctions for such unsportsmanlike and criminal behavior should have criminal penalties for every offender. to make sure that sports are fair play.
north africa has undergone significant changes in recent times. women have also been involved in the democratic process to a significant extent. however, it was women who suffered the most, as many violent sexual acts were committed throughout the north african region during the uprising, including rape and virginity tests as a means of political pressure on women. therefore, women's rights, the principle of equality between women and men, the prohibition of all forms of discrimination and violence against women must become part of the legal order of north african states, and traditional cultural or religious grounds cannot be an excuse for discrimination and violence against women and girls. i supported the report and the resolution that the commission should emphasise the application of gender equality in bilateral diplomatic and trade relations with north african countries and in cooperation with civil society organisations, so that north african women have the conditions for participating in the decision-making processes of their countries.
in writing. − if you have since late 2010, a wave of protests and demonstrations has swept across north africa and the middle east, changing the face and character of the region from within. women, regardless of their status in these regions, have been actively involved in demonstrating, organising and leading movements, and have thus been key agents of change alongside men. they are now fighting for representation in newly formed assemblies and governments and for equal rights to be enshrined in new constitutions. these revolutionary protests, known as the arab spring, met with varying success in different countries for many reasons. this report focuses on four countries in north africa: egypt, libya, morocco, and tunisia. despite their differences, all of them have undergone regime change, elections and constitutional reforms. the report aims in particular to highlight the achievements of women in egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia, to underline the commitment of women in civil society, ngos, the media and political parties to support the transition to democracy, to draw attention to the persistent difficulties and potential pitfalls faced by women in these countries in their fight for equality, and to highlight how eu instruments to promote women's rights and gender equality in these countries should be used in the democratic process.
in writing. − i voted against the report because i am strongly opposed to the use of girls' and women's health as a pretext for eu funding for abortion. the result of such misguided thinking is that member states contribute without distinction to the construction of abortion clinics in developing regions and there is no money left for real hospitals and medicines. responsible family planning is the exact opposite of sacrificing the life of a human fetus. the point of a plan is to think before you act. promoting abortion, on the other hand, is promoting irresponsibility and unplanning.
in writing. − the legal basis for the european development fund (edf) is the council's internal agreement. the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states (acp states), of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 (the cotonou agreement), has laid the formal foundations for eu cooperation with the acp states. the legal basis for the association agreements between the union and the overseas countries and territories (octs) is part iv of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the overseas association decision of 27 november 2001, by virtue of which certain overseas countries and territories are associated with the european union. the commission adopted a draft decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories on 16 july 2012 and it is currently being discussed in the council. the commission emphasises the reduction and ultimate eradication of poverty, which is the main objective of the european union's development cooperation. special attention must also be paid to the special protection of women and girls, and the union must also make a firm commitment under the 11th edf to improve the lives of marginalised groups (children, human rights activists, persons with disabilities and, more generally, any person or group who suffers discrimination on the grounds of their religion, political convictions or sexual orientation).
in writing. − the 11th edf report covers the period 2014-2020 for the financing of eu cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific countries and overseas countries and territories. the primary objective of union development cooperation shall remain the reduction and, subsequently, the eradication of poverty, as well as the objectives relating to the basic social sectors and to equality of opportunity between men and women. the european parliament proposes that 20% of the 11th edf be spent on basic social services, in particular health and primary education. in the draft internal agreement, the commission proposes a maximum budget of eur 30 319 000 000 for the 11th edf (2014 to 2020), representing an increase of around 13% in the volume of assistance made available to the acp states and the octs compared to the 10th edf. i believe that the new multiannual financial framework for financing eu cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific countries and overseas countries and territories will contribute to the development of the regions concerned and can improve the social and health and education networks. all of this is essential for future ascension, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european development fund is a key instrument for development aid. but in times of crisis, there is a need to talk more about how european aid is used. i therefore support many of the proposals in the report. but i also want to point out that in the field of development aid, targeted aid from the member states is often more effective than eu bombastic programmes. women in poor countries need doctors and medicine, but in the name of "reproductive rights", they get abortion clinics from us. this is why the european parliament must start respecting the declaration of the 21st acp-eu parliamentary assembly, which says: 'the eu should refrain from attempts to impose its values which are not universally accepted in the eu-acp partnership'.
in writing. − the draft budget of the european union for the next 7 years, as presented by the government of the slovak republic, is favourable to slovakia. it will bring us 10% more funding than this fiscal period. the resulting up to 25% flexibility in the common agricultural policy will increase direct payments to slovak farmers and help increase the volume of slovak food products on our market. slovakia also spent more than eur 225 million to phase out two blocks of the je bohunice. on the other hand, the budget does not cover the financial commitments that the eu has made. there's a threat of structural deficits and deformities with consequences. we need to be able to revise the seven-year budget after two or three years. we need more flexibility between categories and between years to move funds to where they are best used for growth and jobs. we want to work with the council to eliminate these and other risks. the only option for further negotiations was to support the european parliament's resolution on the multiannual financial framework. as a message to slovakia, i can say that the favorable terms that the government has negotiated are not threatened in further negotiations.
in writing. − i am of the opinion that the agreement reached in the european council on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework should be applauded. it provides a good basis for further negotiations with the european parliament and the commission to reach a final agreement on this important document. i supported the european parliament's position calling for more flexibility between the different expenditure headings, the possibility of carrying over available unused reserves to subsequent financial years, including flexibility mechanisms above the ceilings of the mff. i also supported the ep's request that the council commit itself to covering all outstanding budgetary claims for 2012 and 2013 so that they are not carried over to 2014. progress also needs to be made in the definition of eu own resources.
in writing. − the draft budget of the european union for the next 7 years, as presented by the government of the slovak republic, is favourable to slovakia. it will bring us 10% more funding than this fiscal period. the flexibility of up to 25% in the common agricultural policy will increase direct payments to slovak farmers and help increase the volume of slovak food products on our market. slovakia also spent more than eur 225 million to decommission two units of the bohunice nuclear power plant. on the other hand, the budget does not cover the financial commitments that the eu has made. there's a threat of structural deficits and deformities with consequences. we need to be able to revise the seven-year budget after two or three years. we need more flexibility between categories and between years to move funds to where they are best used for growth and jobs. we want to work with the council to eliminate these and other risks. the only option for further negotiations is to support the european parliament's resolution on the multiannual financial framework. as a message to slovakia, i can say that the favorable terms that the government has negotiated are not threatened in further negotiations.
in writing. − the regulation lays down the rules to be followed in the compilation and publication of basic macroeconomic data in the eu. the commission proposal is in fact a major revision of the european system of national and regional accounts (the european system of accounts esa), which builds on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts (sna adopted in 2008) and addresses the issue in more detail. statistics are central and one of the essential topics of public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and up-to-date data are essential for policy-makers as well as for economic operators and citizens to measure, assess and monitor economic reality and developments. every effort should be made to ensure that the revised esa provides eu citizens with macroeconomic statistics of the highest quality, based on a sound methodology and following a precise timetable. the union member states have raised concerns in particular about the administrative burden and this report therefore proposes that, where possible, automated methods of real-time data collection should be used.
in writing. − the regulation on the system of national and regional accounts sets out the rules to be followed when compiling and publishing eu basic macroeconomic data. independent, reliable, comparable and up-to-date data are essential for policy-makers as well as for economic operators and citizens to measure, assess and monitor economic reality and developments. the commission proposal is in fact a major revision of the european system of national and regional accounts, which is based on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts. given that member states point to concerns about high administrative burdens, the report suggests that, where possible, automated methods of real-time data collection should be used. i voted for the report.
in writing. − the flag state control aspects of the maritime labour convention (mlc) 2006 should be embedded in eu legislation in a more detailed and concrete way. the main advantage of incorporating the maritime labour convention into european union law is that it provides for a much stricter enforcement regime in the eu, for example through eu infringement procedures, which would further strengthen compliance. the eu provisions on flag state control should reflect much more the specific and explicit requirements contained in the convention on maritime labour standards in order to avoid divergent interpretations by member states which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. i consider it justified and important that, within the scope of eu competence, the convention on maritime labour standards be transposed as faithfully as possible into the proposed directive.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty gives the european union significant new prerogatives in areas such as external action, sport, space, climate change, energy, tourism and civil protection. the multiannual financial framework shall be adopted in the form of a council regulation, which shall be adopted by the council, acting unanimously after obtaining the consent of the european parliament, which shall be obtained by a majority of its component members. the current mff expires at the end of 2013 and 2014 should be the first year of application of the future mff. as regards the ceiling for commitment appropriations for 2014, the situation is very uncertain. the four largest political groups in the ep are calling for the seven-year budget to be revised within two to three years. it also calls for greater flexibility in the ability to move funds to where they would be most effectively used for growth and jobs. another requirement is that the european union should be able to switch to budgetary own resources as soon as possible. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, on the one hand, a consensus emerged among european political leaders in favour of increased economic, fiscal, financial and banking integration, as well as improved governance, with the need to boost growth in order to repair public finances. on the other hand, a reduced european budget would be contrary to these political objectives.
in writing. − when the next term begins in 2014, the current derogation from article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union (teu) will end and the european parliament will consist of 751 members (750 plus the president). the current number of seats is 754 736 for members elected in accordance with the treaty of nice, which was in force at the time of the 2009 elections, plus 18 members appointed under the treaty of lisbon by amending article 2 of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions, which provided for a temporary derogation from article 14 (2) teu (providing that no member state may be allocated more than 96 seats) in order to allow the 99 seats allocated to germany under the treaty of nice to be maintained until 2014. the decision establishing the composition of the new parliament may also require a wider distribution of seats to take account of possible changes in the population of the member states or to improve the interpretation and application of the principle of proportionality by descent laid down by the treaty. under article 14 (2) teu, the new composition of parliament is to be determined by the european council acting unanimously on a proposal from the european parliament and with its consent. parliament is thus responsible for submitting a proposal to the european council.
in writing. − liqueurs are classified within the categories according to the definitions set out in annex ii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008. according to recital 2 of regulation (ec) no 110/2008, the measures applicable to the spirit drinks sector should protect the reputation that spirit drinks have acquired on the european union and world markets by continuing to take into account the traditional processes used in the production of spirit drinks. absinthe, a spirit drink traditionally produced in several member states, has not been defined as a product category in annex ii to that regulation. depending on the regional occurrence of certain herbs and changing consumer preferences, traditional absinthe production practices have begun to differ to some extent in many member states, so that not all traditional recipes set a minimum anethole content and the anethole content for many products currently available on the market remains below the level of 0,5 g/l as proposed by the commission. following the entry into force of the draft regulation drawn up by the commission, producers of these variants of absinthe would be obliged, in view of this newly introduced definition of absinthe, to stop using the designation 'absint' as a sales denomination or to change their long-standing recipes, even in spite of their traditional production methods. i believe that such a change in the essential characteristics of the product may provoke a negative reaction from consumers and thus undermine their confidence.
in writing. − the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'the cap to 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future' sets out the possible tasks, objectives and objectives of the common agricultural policy (cap) after 2013. the discussions on this communication have shown that the cap should be reformed with effect from 1 january 2014. it is essential to have a strong cap supported by the budget needed to generate real growth in the period 2007 to 2013 to enable the european union to produce the necessary quantity of a variety of high-quality foodstuffs at a constant rate, and to help promote employment, preserve and produce environmental goods, combat climate change and manage land. in addition, the cap should be based on provisions which are easily understandable to farmers, other stakeholders and citizens in general, in order to ensure transparency of implementation. one of the main objectives and key requirements of the cap reform is to reduce the administrative burden. this objective should be duly taken into account when drawing up the relevant provisions of the direct support scheme. the number of support schemes should not exceed the necessary range and farmers and member states should be able to comply with the relevant requirements and obligations without excessive red tape.
in writing. − if we are to talk about a new common agricultural policy, we need to set clear priorities. i consider food safety and environmental protection to be the main ones. in future, only active farmers should be beneficiaries of direct agricultural payments. whereas land owners who use their land for various activities that are miles away from agriculture should lose their right to direct payments. the distribution of direct payments to farmers from different member states must in any case be fair. there is a need to improve transparency in the disclosure of beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies in a way that does not prejudice farmers' right to privacy. if we are to bring fresh blood into the aging agricultural sector, young farmers must be eligible for higher subsidies. however, it is true that direct payments for large farms should be gradually reduced. it is important that the eu's common agricultural policy is increasingly green, with 30% of the total funding being conditional on complying with binding environmental measures. the definition of green measures should depend on the size of the farm and the extent to which other environmental measures are applied. i am very pleased that for the first time in the history of the eu, the european parliament and the council are deciding together on the final form of the new eu agricultural policy. i believe that, by working together, we have secured a fairer distribution of payments across member states, which will help support agriculture in the eu member states in the next seven-year budget period.
in writing. − communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'the cap to 2020: meeting the food, natural resources and territorial challenges of the future' identifies the potential challenges, objectives and orientations of the common agricultural policy (cap) after 2013. on the basis of the discussion on that communication, the cap should be reformed with effect from 1 january 2014. that reform should cover all the main instruments of the cap, including council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation). given the scope of this reform, it is appropriate to repeal regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 and replace it by a new regulation on the single common organisation of the markets. the reform should also, as far as possible, harmonise, streamline and simplify the provisions, in particular those covering more than one agricultural sector, including by ensuring that non-essential elements of the measures can be adopted by the commission by means of delegated acts. moreover, the reform should continue along the same lines as previous reforms to achieve greater competitiveness and market orientation.
in writing. − in order to ensure the immediate start and effective implementation of rural development programmes, support from the eafrd should be based on the existence of good conditions for the administrative framework. each member state should prepare either a national rural development programme for its entire territory or a set of regional programmes. each programme should identify the strategy for meeting the objectives in relation to the union priorities for rural development and the selection of measures. programming should be consistent with the union priorities for rural development and adapted to national contexts and complement other union policies, in particular the agricultural market policy, cohesion policy and the common fisheries policy. member states that choose a set of regional programmes should be able to prepare at the same time a national programme for the implementation of specific measures at national level or a national framework to facilitate coordination between regions in addressing national challenges. i believe that in order to improve the economic and environmental performance of agricultural and rural businesses, to improve the efficiency of the marketing and processing of agricultural products, to provide the infrastructure needed for the development of agriculture and to support the investments needed to meet environmental objectives, support should be provided for physical investments contributing to those objectives.
in writing. - european agriculture is so badly damaged by subsidies that it is probably not possible to remove this scourge all at once. for slovakia, with a high proportion of its rural population with lower labour mobility, support for the countryside could perhaps be beneficial, particularly at a time of economic downturn and rising unemployment. not direct payments made irrespective of actual production, but flexible support for activities that would help people living in rural areas to lift up their country, to find new opportunities for its development and to realise what they are best at. i also consider that the exchange of best practices between member states is important and could be an inspiration for many people living in rural areas affected by the crisis.
in writing. − reducing red tape is one of the key objectives and main requirements of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). realistic tolerances and limits for de minimis aid should be established and an appropriate balance between trust and control should be established to ensure that the future administrative burden on member states and beneficiaries is kept at a reasonable level. in the context of the elimination of red tape, due account should be taken of the administrative and other costs of control at all levels and the use of efficient administrative and monitoring systems should be rewarded. the primary objective should be to reduce administrative costs to a reasonable level and to ensure that the administrative burden on farmers and administrative staff is brought back to a reasonable level. in order to increase the awareness of beneficiaries of the relationship between agricultural practices, farm management and risk management on the one hand and standards relating to the environment, climate change, good agricultural condition, food safety, public health, animal health, plant health and animal welfare on the other hand, it is necessary that member states set up a comprehensive farm advisory system to offer advice to beneficiaries. at the same time, i believe that member states should also ensure a clear distinction between advice and controls.
in writing. − if you have the eu's energy policy is based on security of supply (diversity of sources), competitive prices and energy efficiency, complemented by measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is necessary and important to take into account the competitiveness of european industry, through appropriate policies and instruments and by adapting to the process of reindustrialising the eu economy. it is in the interest of member states to reduce their dependence on energy imports with volatile prices and to diversify their energy supply. the commission's proposed energy roadmap 2050 provides the basis for the design of legislative and other energy initiatives in the context of the development of the 2030 policy framework including milestones and targets on greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency with a view to developing an ambitious and stable legal and regulatory framework. the scenarios proposed for 2050 are not deterministic in nature but rather serve as a starting point for a constructive dialogue on how to transform the european energy system in order to meet the long-term target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
in writing. − the eu's energy policy aims include increasing security of supply, ensuring energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in order to achieve these objectives as soon as possible, we need a strategy that allows member states to cooperate in the creation of a european energy community. increased energy efficiency and energy savings play a key role in the transformation of the energy system and member states should therefore do their utmost to implement the energy efficiency directive. low-emission energy sources are essential for the eu's future cost-effective energy supply. renewable energy will play a definite role in shaping our energy policy, but we must not forget the benefits of nuclear energy. nuclear energy is used as an important low-emission energy source in several member states. different geographical conditions make it impossible to apply a universal energy policy to all regions, and therefore all european regions should be allowed to develop the energy sources that prove most efficient for them. that is why it was important to adopt the timetable, which i supported.
in writing. − i welcome the draft energy action plan, which contains proposals to address the european energy situation. these proposals will play an important role in the environment, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i want to highlight the intention to make better use of renewable energy sources, which i see as a way of improving the environment. replacing fossil fuels with suitable renewable sources will reduce emissions of harmful substances and enhance energy security. i also see the benefit of the energy progress plan in building up the energy independence of the member states, which could reduce unemployment. i think it is important that the energy progress plan pays attention to the situation at regional level. taking account of the specificities of the regions will help to tackle real problems, thus laying a solid foundation for building the european union's competitiveness in the energy sector.
in writing. − the transformation of the energy system is necessary not only for climate and safety reasons, but also for economic reasons. the search for solutions is necessary, even though energy resources have been used at a faster rate in recent times due to economies of scale and improvements in technology. however, this should not give us a sense of satisfaction, as these savings were not always in line with european practices, which caused a certain amount of uncertainty for many investors across europe. in this context, we must not forget the current financial and economic crisis, which is causing, and i expect will continue for some time to cause, energy investors to be more cautious in investing in energy markets, especially in the renewable energy sector. in order to improve this energy process and to ensure the timely implementation of the necessary transformation, it is essential that the eu engages more actively with member states and stakeholders and prepares concrete measures and proposals for solutions in the field of energy system transformation.
in writing. − if you have the eu has 47 nuclear power plants with 111 reactors, with more than 100 000 inhabitants living within 30 km of them. comprehensive risk and safety assessments (load tests) of nuclear power plants in the european union and related activities have been carried out to examine the readiness of nuclear power plants to face a range of extreme conditions. the results of the stress tests will lead to an improvement in the nuclear safety culture in europe so that it becomes a major model on an international scale, but we must make efforts to achieve the greatest possible transparency of the stress tests.
in writing. − nuclear energy and nuclear safety are the most watched topics at the moment and i do not consider any negotiations to be easy. that is why i think that the debate on this subject is very well founded. all the talk about nuclear power came down after the massive earthquake and tsunami that damaged japan's fukushima nuclear plant, triggering the worst nuclear disaster since the chernobyl accident in 1986. i supported the report because i believe that only by discussing the matter and looking for options can the safety of nuclear power stations be ensured. in my country, slovakia, we currently have two units of the bohunice v2 nuclear power plant and two units of the mochovce nuclear power plant. the slovak power plants are currently delivering two more nuclear units. slovakia is still considering the construction of a new nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia on the site of the currently decommissioned v1 power plant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of slovak nuclear power stations is not compromised.
in writing. - 21 march is international day against racism and 16-24 march is european week against racism. this year, the focus is on ensuring that hate crimes and racist motivated crimes do not remain hidden from the public eye. discriminatory attitudes and behaviour and hate crime are on the rise within the union. extremist parties have gained parliamentary representation in various member states and are influencing the eu policy-making process and political debate. the ep has called on several occasions for the revision of the framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law, so as to extend its scope to include, for example, sexually motivated offences or offences against gender equality. i believe it is important to develop and strengthen a european strategy to combat racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, islamophobia, anti-gypsyism, homophobia and transphobia. it is also important to remember that member states must at the same time strictly comply with the current legislation overseeing the issue.
in writing. − the european union is founded on common values of respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law and is characterised by a wider promotion of tolerance. the award of the nobel peace prize is also a tribute to long years of peace, tolerance and solidarity in europe. but europe's history is also marked by great massacres, which were caused by racism and xenophobia. therefore, even in today's time of peace, we must not tolerate or accept any form of intolerance and discrimination. every day we witness crimes committed out of hatred, prejudice and discrimination. therefore, more effective forms of education, the promotion of a culture based on respect and tolerance, must become a part of our daily lives. national authorities responsible for combating racism, xenophobia and hate crime must also play an important role in this.
in writing. − the endocrine system regulates a large part of the processes in the human body, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, the balance between salts and water, and the function of the heart. the incidence of disorders is increasing, particularly in relation to human reproductive capacity, with endocrine disrupting substances considered as one of the contributing factors. a number of disturbing trends may be observed. over the past two decades, evidence has mounted that the human body is becoming increasingly endocrine-disrupting. worldwide, the incidence and diagnosis of a wide range of disorders have increased dramatically. we are seeing an increase in birth defects, cases of cancer and diabetes, and an increase in neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism and adhd. such rapid changes can only be explained by the action of external environmental factors. this environmental impact comes from a number of different sources, including lifestyle, dietary, pathogenic, medical, pharmaceutical and economic factors, as well as social causes such as stress. there are also a number of studies that show that exposure to chemicals also plays a role. all these factors may be related. the protection of human health is an important part of eu policy (article 35 of the treaty). to this end, it is necessary to apply the precautionary principle (article 191 of the treaty) in full.
in writing. − the endocrine system is essential for the proper development and functioning of the body. if it is disturbed, the body must fight various problems. it is far from being a reproductive problem, although it is the most obvious and certainly one of the most serious disorders. it is with great concern that i hear reports of the increase in hormonal disorders, although i realize that this is a logical consequence of the use of chemicals on a scale that is virtually unavoidable from birth. we find them in food, in clothing, in carpets, in the work, in the powder we use. these are things that we are all surrounded by, without exception, but our primary task is to protect children and young people and to ensure their healthy development and full adulthood. i agree with the rapporteur that measures must be taken to protect this most vulnerable group, which also includes women of reproductive age. i also agree to testing for the presence of dangerous substances and to the revision of the relevant legislation.
in writing. − your health depends on your immunity, which is your ability to resist infection and to destroy it in time. i would like to thank the eu for its recent increased attention to research into chemicals that disrupt the hormonal system, not only in humans but also in animals, even at low doses. the need to address this problem is also indicated by the increasing presence of endocrine disruptors in the human body, which interfere with the production and function of hormones. i supported the report, including the proposals for measures, because the risks of irreparable damage to human health and the environment are too high. i expect the commission to take a much more rigorous look at the current legislation and, if it is out of date, to propose appropriate adjustments and guidelines to take account of the risks posed by endocrine disruptors. i welcome and support the adoption of measures to minimise human exposure to endocrine disruptors. i believe that in the future, such measures will bring us a sustainable chemical industry, better environmental protection and the health of future generations.
in writing. − the unemployment rate in the eu is around 10% (23.8 million people). it is estimated that between 380 000 and 700 000 it jobs will be unfilled in europe in 2015. immigration of skilled workers can make a significant contribution to addressing this dual problem of a declining working population and a shortage of skilled workers. according to a eurobarometer survey, 70% of european citizens consider immigrants to be essential to the european economy. in any case, it is also clear that immigration without a strategy will cause problems and threaten the eu's competitiveness. the aim of member states should be to have a qualitative immigration policy, not a quantitative one. it is already clear that the influx of highly qualified workers will be a challenge. the integration of other eu citizens and third-country nationals of immigrant origin is becoming a social issue of the day. and that's the problem today. member states have left immigration for too long without a clear concept. currently, unemployment, mismatches between skills demanded and those offered on the labour market, low-wage work or early school leaving affect significantly more immigrants than locals. i believe it is essential that managed immigration should be carried out at the same time as the delayed integration is rectified. both can only succeed if europe becomes a continent with a culture of open immigration, where social exclusion, racism and discrimination have no place.
in writing. − migration policy has a significant impact on the politics, economy, social aspects, security of states, but it also changes the demographic composition of individual countries. i supported the report because i believe that by integrating migrants in the process of integrating immigrants into the host society, the eu can play an important role, especially with regard to employment, which is a crucial aspect of successful integration. i expect that a common european system will be established to harmonise the integration of migrants, creating the appropriate conditions for legal migration, strengthening the effectiveness of border controls on the movement of persons and combating illegal migration, and contributing to the adoption of a common european asylum system. as migration requires a systemic approach and skilled management, i agree that the eu should develop a unified strategy and, together with its regions and cities, establish a common coordination system at european level in order to identify labour demand and manage labour migration more effectively. labour migration cannot be a nightmare for member states, and any populist rhetoric in this regard must be rejected.
in writing. − all types of asbestos are dangerous and its harmful effects are documented and regulated. most of the adverse health effects of inhaled asbestos do not appear until decades after exposure. it is known that threshold exposure levels below which exposure to chrysotile asbestos would not pose a carcinogenic risk have not yet been established and that an effective way to protect human health is to prohibit the use of chrysotile asbestos fibres and products containing them. an increased risk of cancer has been observed in people exposed to very low levels of asbestos fibres. the creation of landfills with asbestos waste is a temporary solution to a problem that is thus passed on to future generations, as asbestos fibres are practically indestructible over time. however, in addition to the human dimension of inadequate health and safety protection at the workplace, this problem also has harmful effects on the economy. health and safety problems at the workplace are a barrier to growth and competitiveness, while also causing a disproportionate increase in social security costs. i think it is important that the eu, together with international organisations, should promote instruments which would classify the asbestos market as a trade in toxic substances. at the same time, it is important that all victims of asbestos in the eu and their relatives receive prompt and appropriate medical treatment and adequate financial support from the national health insurance system.
in writing. − while none of us doubts that asbestos is harmful, it must be borne in mind that it is a highly harmful material that must be handled with extreme care. not only can cancer be caused by inhaling asbestos fibers but other serious health problems can also result. the main victims are those who have worked with materials containing asbestos, but also people who have been in the vicinity of such work. article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the union is to ensure a high level of protection of human health. in this spirit, it is our duty to establish rules to provide adequate health care to all who suffer from the effects of asbestos fibre inhalation. illnesses resulting from the performance of work duties must be labelled as occupational diseases in all member states in order to provide patients with appropriate treatment. i appreciate the young people's desire for revenge. they need to be able to anticipate the hazards of materials used in older buildings and have sufficient knowledge of the possible consequences of exposure to asbestos for later generations. for this reason, we must also ensure that landfills are strictly labelled.
in writing. − the harmfulness of asbestos to humans and the environment is now well known. few people know, however, how dangerous asbestos really is. it has been shown that inhaled asbestos can cause pulmonary fibrosis asbestosis, lung cancer, thoracic and peritoneal mesothelioma and thoracic changes. although the european commission decided in 1999 to ban the use of all types of asbestos, it is essential that measures be taken to minimise the impact on both the individual and the environment as a whole in order to phase out asbestos. i voted in favour of the present report because i believe that legislation alone is not enough and that more needs to be done to implement it in practice. i expect the eu to adopt more effective measures in relation to the member states, which will create better conditions for the progressive removal and disposal of asbestos materials. the system of controls on the removal and disposal of asbestos shall be improved. education, skills and competences of people, development of asbestos eradication programmes, safety procedures and protection of workers need to be improved.
in writing. − in march 2006, the commission withdrew its proposal for a regulation on the statute for a european mutual fund. in recent years, the european parliament has adopted a number of resolutions calling for the adoption of a regulation on the statute for a european mutual society, but it is regrettable that, after withdrawing the draft statute for a european mutual society in 2006, the commission has not produced any new proposal providing mutual societies with an appropriate legal instrument to facilitate their cross-border activities. fortunately, it recognised the need for a statute and committed itself to developing better legislation for social economy organisations (including mutual societies), stressing that mutual societies should be able to operate across borders and thus contribute to european efforts to 'increase growth and strengthen trust' in the european economic area. it is important to hope that this european statute will be ambitious and innovative in protecting workers and their families in the event of mobility within the countries of the union.
in writing. - there have been important political developments in egypt recently. a working group meeting was held in november, and a new constitution was subsequently adopted by referendum in december. elections to the people's assembly, the lower house of parliament, are scheduled to take place between april 22 and june 2013. egypt is one of the european union's key partners in the southern mediterranean. this is why the growing political and social tensions, the polarization of society and the incidents of violence are of concern. the often controversial government measures, the growing pressure on civil society and international ngos operating in egypt such a situation cannot be ignored. at the same time, egypt is also facing economic problems. it is right that the union should work with the member states to alleviate the whole situation, which can at the same time lead to the economic uplift of the country, to a sense of justice and responsibility for the egyptian people. this is why eu-egypt relations are of great socio-political importance.
in writing. as i warned a year ago, the so-called arab spring in egypt has brought neither freedom nor democracy. it has been confirmed that the enthusiastic comparison of the velvet revolution in the former czechoslovakia with the tahrir square protests in egypt was just a misunderstanding of the situation by some media and politicians. sadly, the main victims of this error are the christians, who are among the indigenous inhabitants of the region. the rise of political islam makes them second- or third-class citizens, constantly at risk of being accused of insulting islam, which in many cases ends in violence or the death of the accused. eu diplomacy has so far failed to provide effective assistance and protection not only to these people but also to its own citizens, as evidenced by the case of the kidnapped slovak boy adamek azaz. the resolution also calls on the commission and the european union's chief diplomat to take more effective action, in particular by making development aid conditional on concrete political reforms.
in writing. − tensions on the korean peninsula have been rising since the dprk launched a 'satellite' using ballistic missile technology in december 2012 and conducted a nuclear test in february of that year in protest against the international community's unification. both the council of the european union and the un security council have strongly condemned these acts as a serious breach of the dprk's international obligations under a un security council resolution and as a serious threat to the maintenance of regional and international peace and security. it is important to seek a political solution to the nuclear issue through diplomatic means. the dprk should endeavour to re-engage in the talks and make efforts to achieve lasting peace and security on the korean peninsula, thereby ensuring, as far as possible, a prosperous and stable future for the country.
in writing. − china's interest in growing and acquiring a position in the world commensurate with its political and economic strength is a fundamental principle of its policy. given china's size and remarkable growth, these changes have a tremendous impact on world politics and trade. the eu offers the largest market in the world. it plays a central role in finding sustainable solutions to current environmental, energy and globalisation challenges. it has shown its ability to gradually extend its influence beyond its borders, becoming the largest provider of development aid in the world. in order to confirm the importance of their relationship, the eu and china agreed in 2003 on a strategic partnership. some differences persist, but they are effectively resolved and relations become more solid and realistic. china is also heavily involved, alongside the eu, in the process of globalisation and increasingly in the international system. the aim should be to create a situation in which china and the eu can leverage their strengths to offer joint solutions to global challenges.
in writing. − the rhetoric coming from beijing in recent years clearly shows that china is genuinely concerned about the unfavourable economic developments in europe, most notably the debt crisis. the chinese economy is mainly export oriented and the european union is the largest trading power and the main destination of chinese exports. china is the eu's second largest trading partner, after the united states. it follows logically that china needs the economic growth of its trading partners in order to support its own economic development. european companies, unfortunately, still cannot invest in china on the same terms as chinese investments in europe. despite chinese progress in reducing trade barriers preventing access to the chinese market, many barriers remain, as evidenced by the report of the eu chamber of commerce in china. the report shows that as many as 43% of ceos of european companies in china believe that the measures taken by the chinese government are discriminatory against them. europe and china need each other. in this spirit, a new phase in eu-china trade relations must be launched, based on a partnership of equals, mutual benefit and common development. this is the principle of reciprocity that europeans have long called for.
in writing. − since the signing of the eu-china agreement in 1985, cooperation has developed into a strategic partnership of great importance to the relationship. i welcome the public commitment made during the strategic dialogue last year to set a good example of cooperation through a strategic partnership based on shared interests and mutual understanding. the promotion of 60 sectoral dialogues is a good example of international cooperation. if a high-level partnership is to be mutually beneficial, we need to define better the strengthening of dialogues in the concept of a strategic partnership in the future. the commission will also be supporting the development of the european union's external relations policy, in particular the fight against counterfeiting and the fight against fraud.
in writing. − a joint europol investigation team, codenamed 'operation veto', has uncovered widespread manipulation of sports results in recent years, with 680 matches suspected worldwide, including 380 in europe. the team described a far-reaching network affecting sports results that has hit the very heart of the sport, and in which 425 people are suspected of involvement and 50 others have been arrested. however, these figures are only the 'tip of the iceberg' as the sports sector is estimated to generate total revenues of several billion euros per year. the influence on sporting outcomes affects many member states, which is a matter of serious concern as it is linked to organised crime and poses a significant threat to organised sport in virtually all member states. moreover, corruption in sport can also spread to the competent authorities, which ultimately threatens people's confidence in the effectiveness of democratic institutions in protecting the democratic state. it is necessary for the commission to develop a coordinated approach in the fight against match-fixing and organised crime by coordinating the efforts of the main stakeholders in this area and providing a platform for discussion. i consider it equally important in this context that sports organisations themselves adopt a zero tolerance policy towards corruption at both internal and external levels, thus preventing their members from being vulnerable to external pressure.
in writing. − the european parliament will soon have to give its consent to the european union's accession to the international cotton advisory committee (icac). the icac is an international organisation of cotton producing, exporting and importing countries. although the union's accession to the icac is not a problem per se, inta decided to draw up a resolution on several aspects of the global cotton value chain. i believe that in this context it is essential to address in particular the issue of forced and child labour in cotton production. the european union has several trade instruments at its disposal to be used in the fight against forced and child labour. these include, for example, the scheme of generalised tariff preferences. it is equally justified for the commission to propose an effective mechanism mapping goods produced through forced and child labour.
for the efd group. one of the most explosive cities in pre-islamic iraq became the city of kirkuk, home to millions of people. nearby, rich oil fields have given it the nickname little iraq. its territory is hotly contested by up to three local ethnic groups. under saddam hussein, tens of thousands of kurds were expelled from the city and their homes were occupied by arabs. after the overthrow of the hussein regime, the kurds began to return to their homes and began to drive out the arabs as well as the local turkmen from the city. kurds are coming to town who have never lived here. the kurdish autonomous administration apparently decided to appropriate this territory, perhaps because of the mineral wealth found there. violence, terror, political assassination - these are local methods of asserting political and economic influence. since the region is also fighting for control of its oil resources, we cannot be under the illusion that the local interests of the oil traders are behind the ongoing violence. however, the iraqi administration is clearly unable to prevent conflict between the respective ethnic and religious groups living in the country. and in the kirkuk dispute, it leaves too much room for the kurds to push and persecute the local predominantly turkmen population, but also the arabs. perhaps we should therefore make a strong appeal not only to the iraqi government but also to the kurdish autonomous government to resolve this problem, so that the local population does not become unnecessarily victims of economic, economic and political disputes over wealth in the region.
for the efd group. the israeli-palestinian conflict is a long-standing trauma in the middle east region. although i consider israel to be a developed and civilized country and respect the right of the israeli people to live in peace in their own country, i cannot ignore the repressive measures taken by the israeli security forces against the palestinian population, which go beyond the scope of legitimate action. i don't want to repeat the concern expressed by my colleagues over the circumstances of arafat's death. i think it's equally important to point out the inadmissibility of the israeli administrative detention mechanism without charge. palestinians detained in this way are being held without charge or trial. i don't think we can tolerate this kind of behavior in israel for long.
there is no doubt that the commission's proposal to withdraw 900 million allowances from the european union's emissions trading scheme will be a major intervention in the current carbon market. the consequence of this measure will naturally be an increase in the price of carbon, which on the one hand may put pressure on polluters to innovate their technologies more intensively, but on the other hand will immediately translate into price increases in many industrial products, which ultimately will be paid by our citizens. the question therefore remains whether it is wise to open up such a sensitive subject at a time when our industrial production is declining and important european producers are fleeing to other parts of the world because of the insidious and bureaucratic management of the union's economic policy.
in writing. the eu emissions trading scheme is a key tool for cost-effectively reducing industrial emissions. its creation was a market-based measure to regulate co2 prices, which enables us to incentivise low-emission technologies and investments in renewable energy. despite the fact that emissions have been declining since the ets was set up, the system is still highly unequal in its operation. one reason is the economic crisis, which is still very much in effect today, and which has led to the accumulation of 955 million surplus emissions. it can be said that the supply of allowances is currently far in excess of demand, so that carbon prices have decreased from approximately eur 30/tonne co2 to approximately eur 5/tonne co2. such a significant decrease in quota prices has serious consequences for the adequate incentives for sustainable and technological investments and hampers investments in low-carbon technologies. in order to overcome the current disparities, the legislative provisions on the timing of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances should be amended as soon as possible. to ensure the stability and predictability of the eu ets, operational intervention is occasionally necessary, as this is in the interest of all eu member states.
the commission's proposal to suspend the application of the european union's emissions trading scheme to intercontinental flights in 2012 is justified by the fact that the european commission wishes to improve the prospects for a successful outcome of the establishment of global market measures in international aviation at the forthcoming general assembly of the international civil aviation organisation in september 2013. i don't want to debate the meaning of our gesture today. i want to point out the technical difficulties that will accompany our generosity. indeed, we will probably have to fine-tune the mechanisms for surrendering the 2012 allowances in such a way that competition is not distorted and that all transactions are conducted in a fair and transparent manner. a global agreement on this matter on the icao's soil would certainly be a great success. but it is also realistic to expect that, despite our efforts, such an agreement will not be reached in the time available.
in appreciation of the rapporteur's work, i would like to add two comments to the report. one is about the body-achats decision. the release of the court decision was most often reported in the media with the comment that the women now had what they wanted, they could pay more for accident insurance. and that's more or less what happened, insurance companies mostly raised premiums for female drivers. of course, the men's insurance premiums were not reduced, as češková's colleague said. the possibility of tailor-made assessment was also not or hardly used. the report rightly concludes that legal uncertainty persists because the commission's guidelines do not have the force of law. my second comment concerns the report's finding that discrimination against women is largely linked to pregnancy and motherhood. this is evidenced by one of the latest eurobarometer surveys. i think the commission should pay more attention to this.
i would like to thank mrs gurmai for this report, although i must admit that i do not understand her concerns about the unequal treatment of women and men in relation to the sale of contraceptives and the practice of abortion. but i welcome the opening of the debate on discrimination against pregnant women and mothers in housing and credit. this discrimination is not based on stereotypes but on the fact that a woman who becomes a mother loses her income and is dependent on state support. her situation is often worse than that of an unemployed man. it's because of society's failure to value responsible motherhood. we must aim to give a realistic price and, in particular, to pay for the work of mothers and family members who care for children. only in this way can their discrimination in the field of credit and housing be effectively ended.
the internet is the most common medium used by people of all ages. almost all of us have had experience with security problems, to a greater or lesser degree. it is not for nothing that we call programs that can spread without the user's knowledge viruses. they can act as a biological virus that causes infection in the host. inadequate protection of equipment will allow the spread of destructive viruses that can interfere with our work or even our privacy. mass use of the internet therefore requires the adequate provision of security as well as information to ordinary users on how to achieve its highest level. i am of the opinion that it is essential that there should be an authority to carry out this task, we just need to know what powers such an authority has and will have and how its results will be handled. but in times of economic crisis we also need to ensure transparency and eliminate unnecessary costs, and that is why i am of the opinion that this office called enisa should be moved to brussels.
the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european network and information security agency establishes the agency as the formal successor of the original agency based in heraklion, crete. with the increasing volume and importance of electronic communications, the importance of network and information security is also growing and it may therefore be appropriate to consider the creation of such an institution with a longer mandate than the proposed five to seven years. the continuous improvisation and debate about the agency's purpose has certainly marked its work in the period so far. the independent evaluation of the agency's activities since 2004 has led to recommendations for a clearer definition of the agency's tasks and objectives and an appropriate budget. the technical and instrumental support of the equipment and programmes for collecting and analysing data from early warning systems must be able to cope with dynamically changing security threats and therefore, i think, we should approach the further mandate of this agency with greater seriousness and attention.
international trade is one of the most effective means of tackling poverty and boosting economic growth in countries struggling with poverty. to neglect its obligations towards the less fortunate parts of the world would be to betray the fundamental values on which it is founded. one of the most direct ways to help is through trade. but like anything, trade-led development has its pitfalls. the reasoning report identifies two of the most pressing problems, namely corruption and the behaviour of international companies outside the european union. the european union cannot support corrupt regimes and the selection of trade partners on the basis of transparency is an effective means, in particular, of combating corruption. and another problem is the social responsibility of multinational corporations, which often behave differently inside the european union and outside the european union.
in writing. trade promotes poverty reduction and growth. while trade is a necessary condition for development, it is not enough on its own. domestic reforms are essential for growth driven by trade and investment. the economic performance of the least developed countries is hampered by a number of factors: low diversification of their economies and export base, insufficient infrastructure and services, lack of necessary skills, poor governance, corruption and lack of transparency, ineffective tax policies and tax evasion, poor social policies and insufficient redistribution instruments. the european union must focus its efforts on the poorest and most vulnerable countries and ensure that these efforts are tailored to their needs and constraints. one of the eu's main objectives is to ensure that economic growth and development are accompanied by social justice, including key labour standards and sustainable environmental practices, including through external policies. the least developed countries and other vulnerable countries are more exposed to the negative effects of crises. the rich countries and the eu, in the global economy, have a moral obligation to help reduce the levels of poverty and suffering in the world. one way we can do this effectively is by working out trade agreements that allow developing countries to participate effectively in the international economy and reap the benefits of globalisation.
the european union's trade and investment policy is not immune from the rules and principles that apply to other areas where the european union has competence. the objectives set out in the treaty on european union can only be achieved if the european union remains true to its values. given the european union's important position in the world and the moral responsibility that this entails, we are obliged to contribute by all possible means to improving the situation in the world. i therefore warmly welcome this resolution and the work of the rapporteur, which clearly shows the position of the european parliament as the only representative body in the european union and sends a clear signal that it will call for the principle of policy coherence for development to be respected and will always support the introduction of instruments that will lead to the support and integration of developing countries.
in writing dear prime minister, dear colleagues! yes, we are at a crossroads, and that is why we need to put things in their proper words. i am in favour of deepening integration on a practical level: banking union, fiscal union, achieving a single market, a single energy system, developing a genuine european infrastructure, a common and single digital space and many other practical steps. for example, in the area of tax harmonisation, european budget revenue or eurobonds. but these projects also require deeper political integration, and that clearly requires federalisation. i know the prime ministers of the member states are afraid of this term. it would immediately spark a debate at home about transferring or losing sovereignty, and it could be a windfall for anti-european forces. but this struggle cannot be avoided, and so every pro-european and responsible government must honestly and openly inform and convince citizens of the need, necessity and correctness of federalisation. only this is the way to democratic european integration. thank you for your attention.
today, under the influence of deepening globalisation, the security environment and security situation are also deteriorating more and more in other areas, which include undoubtedly electronic and communication media, the internet and social networks. although there are different views and opinions on the agency's work, i supported the report because i believe that the agency has a good capacity to eliminate threats and to help individual member states provide the necessary information. i am pleased that, following a request, a study of the current functioning of the agency has been prepared, which sets out specific requirements and measures to improve the agency's operation. however, in order to be more objective, i expect a longer time frame to be established for the agency's activities, the scope, objectives and tasks of the agency to be more clearly defined, the organisational structure to be simplified and strengthened, and an increase in the volume of financial resources allocated to the agency to be undertaken.
written − the european network and information security agency (enisa) was established in march 2004 for a period of five years, which was subsequently extended in 2008 until march 2012. in september 2010, the commission presented two proposals: the first was to extend the agency's mandate for 18 months until september 2013 and the second was more ambitious and concerned with modernising and streamlining the functioning of the agency. the agency meets specific needs at eu level: it coordinates stakeholders more effectively and efficiently than could be achieved through cooperation between member states. in addition, the agency should carry out additional tasks in relation to the computer emergency response units (cert) which would ensure that each of the certs of the member states and of the union has sufficiently developed capabilities and that those capabilities are matched to the capabilities of the most advanced units. network and information security often takes on a more global dimension, as recent events have shown, and therefore the agency needs to be able to engage in dialogue and cooperation with third countries and international organisations in order to better develop a common approach to potential threats.
in writing − i support the report and agree to the payment of a financial contribution from the egf to italy following the redundancies at antonio merloni spa in italy, as requested by the proposal. however, i would also like to point out that the entire process of evaluation from the submission of the application to the final submission phase took a very long time in my view. i note the long waiting horizon for the completion of the request submitted, in particular because, as stated in the report, the italian authorities wanted to provide workers with an expedited assistance and in particular because the egf was designed as a rapid intervention tool for workers in the event of mass redundancies. i expect that when similar requests are made in the future, the commission will take the comments made by the committee on employment and social affairs on the report much more seriously and these will be incorporated into the report presented. i also expect the commission to submit very shortly the other applications that were submitted in 2011.
in writing − if you have europe is linked by historical events and lively trade links with a group of african, caribbean and pacific states. the current text of council regulation no 1528/2007 clearly states that countries which do not comply with the rules laid down will be removed from annex i, which lists those countries which have concluded negotiations for an agreement with the community. i consider the proposed wording of the regulation to be reasonable and effective. the delegation of powers to the european commission to re-include countries in the said annex after the requirements laid down have been met and the proposal for the automatic renewal of this power is a measure in the interests of the effective implementation of the common commercial policy. by doing so, we will avoid stagnation in our trade relations and, on the contrary, contribute to the economic development of both sides. i would just like to point out that the wording of the regulation is also consistent with the idea of the european union's 'responsibility' towards the acp countries.
written − the european emissions trading system (ets) is a key instrument with which the european union aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is a good tool that combines the needs of the market and is also designed to lead to environmental protection. if the ets is not set up in an efficient and flexible manner, taking into account the current conditions, it can be said with certainty that the objective set will not be achieved. moreover, an improperly set ets risks fragmenting the internal market, which is in direct contradiction with the fundamental objective of the european union, which is to create a single internal market. moreover, the ets is the basis for the smooth transition to a low-carbon economy that is planned in the future for environmental protection and would be a step backwards to a different, less environmentally friendly system. in addition, the effectiveness of the ets is also evidenced by the fact that countries such as australia and south korea have been inspired by the european example and are introducing similar schemes. for the reasons stated above, i support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − between 1990 and 2006, carbon dioxide emissions from aviation almost doubled in the european union. this figure represents about 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions and is on the rise. it is forecast to grow by a further 63% by 2020. we must bear in mind that our commitment is to reduce our emissions by 20% compared with 1990 levels. therefore, everything must be done to effectively tackle global warming, but this can only be achieved on an international basis. that is why i believe it is important that aviation, which is part of the eu ets, should also play its part in the fight against climate change. two thirds of emissions are caused by intercontinental flights, but only one third of these are caused by flights from the eu. third countries should therefore also comply with the provisions of the ets. i voted in favour of the commission's position in the interests of a successful negotiation. this is our chance to show that the european union is not standing in the way of international agreement.
in writing − if you have in 2008, after long and careful deliberation, the european parliament and the council of ministers agreed to include aviation in the eu ets. the reason for including aviation was the need to address the rapid increase in emissions from this sector. since 1990, the base year for the kyoto protocol, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by about 100%. this is contrary to the need to reduce them and to keep the temperature rise below 2°c. at last year's meeting of the council of the international civil aviation organisation (icao), considerable progress was made in the effort to ensure global regulation of aviation emissions. therefore, no measures should be taken against aircraft operators in relation to the requirements arising from directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 13 october 2003 applying before 1 january 2014 to the reporting of verified emissions and the corresponding surrender of allowances from flights to and from such airports. aircraft operators wishing to continue to comply with those requirements should be able to do so. in order to avoid distortions of competition, this exemption should only apply in respect of aircraft operators that have either not obtained free allowances or have returned all free allowances allocated to them in 2012.
written − the european emissions trading system can be seen as one of the key tools by which the eu is seeking to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reductions it has committed to under the kyoto protocol to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 8% below 1990 levels by 2012. i would point out that according to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, aviation is currently responsible for about 3% of all greenhouse gas emissions and this share is growing very rapidly from year to year. i therefore supported the report and its swift adoption, because i believe that existing legislation on greenhouse gases must apply without distinction to everyone, including aviation, which i still consider to be very moderate compared to other sectors. i expect that the adoption of this proposal will establish emission allowances for airlines to be auctioned and remove certain elements of legal certainty concerning the obligation of airlines. i also expect that the one-year limitation proposed will be sufficient to make progress in addressing emissions from international aviation.
in writing − a well-functioning banking sector is also the foundation of a stable economy. i therefore welcome the new package of legislative measures on banking sector reform, which introduces stricter capital requirements for banks and will allow for increased investment in the real economy. given the difficult negotiations, i can say that this is one of the most important reforms of the banking sector since the outbreak of the crisis in europe. the specific measure is also to facilitate the provision of credit to small firms, which form the core of the country's thriving economy. these are also necessary measures to ensure transparency in the banking sector if we are to prevent serious tax evasion and fraud. however, capital requirements and newly established rules for individual banks need to depend on their activities and the level of risk that banks take on. i therefore agree that banks should provide basic information on their profits, losses, taxes, turnover, public subsidies and the postal addresses of the employees they employ. i believe that through the new rules we will be able to put an end to the non-transparent and irresponsible behaviour of bankers and take a step forward to strengthen our economies in the event of the threat of another crisis. our common objective is to ensure that banking is governed by sound rules, in the best interests of the citizens of the european union.
in writing − this regulation must be an appropriate response to the economic crisis, which has brought to light the shortcomings of the basel ii concept. this new financial instrument should take over all that was proven in the original basel ii concept, while avoiding the errors and shortcomings that the crisis has revealed. in creating this important regulatory instrument of the european internal market, we should keep in mind the main objective, which is to create a functioning and competitive european internal market. i therefore fully agree that this regulation cannot be immediately applicable in its entirety, but the commission should determine which provisions will not be implemented in the territory of the european union unless the united states of america also takes a similar step. i would also like to point out that commercial confidentiality and disclosure are not necessarily incompatible if we strike the right balance. moreover, an appropriate level of disclosure leads to the desired financial stability and consequently strengthens investor confidence in financial markets, thus encouraging foreign investment.
written − air transport has become a normal part of our lives and we must not remain indifferent to the working conditions of airport staff. the services provided by ground staff cannot be bypassed by any passenger. when we decide to use an airplane for our transportation, whether we like it or not, we have to submit to many of the tasks performed by the ground crew. one of the typical hidden shortcomings of working conditions in any company is the high turnover of its employees. to prevent this phenomenon, which creates a high level of uncertainty for employees, customers and, ultimately, the employer, i support the takeover guarantee institute. in this context, i express my opinion that in future the takeover guarantee should not be voluntary but should be the rule for all ground staff. by limiting fluctuation, we ensure continuous work and responsible customer service, in addition to improving the conditions of employees. for the reasons set out above, it is necessary to guarantee such working conditions to workers by means of clear rules which do not allow for confusing interpretations to their detriment.
in writing − i supported the report because i consider ground handling at airports to be an important part of the air transport chain. this is evidenced by the fact that the sector employs more than 60 000 people across europe and estimates the global revenue of ground handling services at around eur 50 billion. the report also deserves greater attention because it repeals the previous directive, which is intended to replace the proposal for a regulation on groundhandling services. i welcome the commission's proposal to reduce delays and improve the quality of services provided to passengers. i agree that in order to ensure efficient and high-quality ground handling, the legislative framework for market opening needs to be improved, but the question for me remains whether further liberalisation can achieve even higher levels of productivity in ground handling. in any event, i expect the liberalisation of the eu ground handling market to be balanced, the conditions for tendering improved, minimum standards for airport services introduced and no more serious threats to staff, in particular in terms of their employment and pay.
in writing − despite the many serious comments already made on the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to goods and services, i supported the report because i consider equality between men and women to be a fundamental principle of the eu and i am in favour of applying equal access to goods and services to individuals regardless of their gender, age, health, disability, religion, belief or sexual orientation. the directive clearly favours gender inequalities, which i consider to be positive and right. in my speech, i would also like to point out that the directive allows specific measures to be taken to prevent or compensate for gender-related disadvantages, which may ultimately trigger an avalanche of exceptions in various areas that appear to be problematic. i expect the commission to proceed with its report on the application of the directive and to submit it to the ep as soon as possible, despite the problems facing the insurance industry. at the same time, i expect the commission to play a more important role in coordinating and identifying reservations and shortcomings and to recommend proposals to address them.
in writing. − successful trade is a stimulus for economic growth and plays an important role in poverty reduction, which is why i thought the report was important. the investments could create new jobs, which would also have an impact on the improvement of people's quality of life. the sectors most affected by poverty must be developed. here, and in the case of smes, it is necessary to strengthen the development of enterprises. economic development, the development of trade, must be initiated by the country itself, by setting priorities that include development goals that are geared towards more profitable production. the role of small producers and small enterprises is essential for more profitable production, social development and trade. they act as drivers of development, engaging and serving local communities. i agree that trade promotion aid should be focused on the most needy, least developed and low-income countries. trade promotion aid would strengthen local businesses, provide opportunities for business development, innovation, and thus make them more competitive by exploiting new opportunities, which is one of the foundations for job creation. as we all know, foreign investment is also a strong driver of economic growth, which is why i believe that cooperation with other donors in this area at local and international level is important for development.
in writing − international trade has a major impact on people's and businesses' daily lives, offering opportunities not only for developing countries but also for those most in need of help, no matter where they live. i therefore welcome all the procedures and measures that have been taken so far by the eu and the member states to promote development through trade. i also supported the report because i think it is good news, which not only takes stock of the situation but also comes with proposals and recommendations for supporting developing countries in the field of trade. despite the positive developments in this area in recent times, i would like to point out that the number of the world's poorest countries is increasing, people in these countries often die of hunger and more people live in absolute poverty. i fully appreciate that the eu is currently a leader in providing trade support to developing countries, but i expect the eu to make greater use of the instruments at its disposal to develop growth and poverty reduction efforts in developing countries, while helping to create an enabling environment for effective trade assistance and trade development.
in writing − i supported the report because i see trade and investment flows to developing and least developed countries as a means that can play a very important role in raising the living standards of the poorest countries. on the other hand, i expect these developing countries not to wait for external support alone, but to embark on domestic reform first, as part of successful integration into world trade, which can prepare them more responsibly for competition and thus enable them to benefit from new market opportunities. i would also like to point out the growing diversity of developing and poorer economies, which not only have different potentials but also different needs and objectives, and therefore i expect the commission to take account of the principles of the extended integrated framework for the least developed countries. i also agree that trade support will focus on countries that would have limited prospects for long-term growth and sustainable development without external assistance, but at the same time i expect the commission to take into account the country's overall level of development and its needs, capacities and internal development disparities.
one of the main tasks of the european central bank is to maintain the financial stability of the union and to supervise the single currency, the euro. the ecb's experts are therefore also involved in the calculation of the amount of financial assistance needed for indebted countries from the european stability mechanism. it appears that recovery programmes and the levels of financial assistance originally calculated are not sufficient to solve the problems of the affected countries. requests for further financial assistance come from greece and portugal, but also from cyprus. citizens of the lending countries are becoming concerned that the competent institutions of the troika repeatedly underestimate the volumes of financial assistance to these countries and subsequently increase these levels. citizens are therefore right to ask whether this is the dilettantism of the economists working in these institutions or a deliberate deception of the public. the question of the ethics of the aid delivery module applied is also a legitimate one, which has a quantified basis following the publication of the report on the wealth of euro area residents. how would you please explain to the citizens of my country, mr president draghi, that they have to reduce their standard of living to contribute their money to maintain the standard of living of, say, six times the wealth of the citizens of cyprus?
the gradual development and strengthening of relations with ukraine opens the way for us to acquire a significant partner on the eastern borders of the union. while the proposed amendments to the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas significantly improve and simplify the procedures in place, they do not allow citizens to travel freely between the union and ukraine. the eu has also committed itself to the development of a common visa policy, including the visa waiver for the citizens of the union. first of all, we need to assess the effect of the changes currently being made as soon as possible. consequently, we must agree with the ukrainians on the technical and legislative measures that the ukrainian side should implement in order to be able to talk meaningfully about free movement across the border. however, i think that any measure that facilitates people-to-people contacts and travel between ukraine and the union should be supported.
the global economic crisis has left its mark on all the member states of the european union, and today we have still not managed to properly bridge the period of regression and we must not distinguish between the euro area countries and the rest of the world. we are all in this together, and we must therefore be careful about measures that would lead to even greater macroeconomic imbalances. we are witnessing the birth of a banking union which will continue to be an important tool in the future in dealing with similarly complex economic and financial situations as we are experiencing today. it is certainly essential that euro area countries have sufficient financing under the mechanisms of the banking union to maintain the stability of the currency. however, for the banking union to truly benefit the whole of the european union, the resources allocated to crisis management need to be available to all.
it is natural that, like the euro area countries, other eu countries may find themselves in a situation where they need to recapitalise their banks. the european stability mechanism is designed to hedge euro area risks and, in its current form, is not designed to provide assistance to other member states. the report presented by ms hübner describes two options for working towards a bank recapitalisation solution for non-euro area members. i admit that from a legal point of view, the more acceptable alternative seems to me to be based on an amendment to the treaty establishing the european stability mechanism which would allow the participating states to contribute to the paid-up capital in order to provide a rescue mechanism for the recapitalisation of their banks. the second solution, namely the creation of a new instrument in the form of a loan that could be granted to the governments of non-euro area member states for the purpose of recapitalising banks, would, in my view, only fix the division between the functioning of the member states and the non-euro area member states.
in writing the situation in hungary is unacceptable. parliament, in which prime minister orbán's coalition has a two-thirds majority, amended the country's constitution again in march. the changes that have been made have me more than concerned, and i'm not the only one: the novel has raised concerns at home and abroad. i am referring, for example, to the limitation of the constitutional tribunal's powers and to the reintroduction of measures declared unconstitutional by the tribunal. the commission itself called on hungary to respect democratic principles even before the adoption of the law in question. the council of europe and the un high commissioner for human rights share my view. what the orbán government is allowing itself is unprecedented in a modern democratic society! the independence of hungary is seriously threatened. the hungarian parliament, consisting of an overwhelming constitutional majority of one political party, is constantly striving to transform many of its powers under the centralised control of the ruling class. the approved amendment brings outrages in the form of further curtailing the powers of the constitutional court, criminalizing the homeless, introducing the prerequisites for a closer connection of the church with the state and direct control/control of education, specifically disproportionate taxation of citizens outside the budget and interference with the independence of the media during elections. the law explicitly provides for the possibility of restricting the right to freedom of expression in the event of a violation of the dignity of the hungarian nation or even the article of the constitution establishing a parliamentary guard/guard, directly responsible to the speaker of parliament.
in writing as early as june 2011, i drew attention to the problematic wording of the hungarian constitution, which speaks of hungary's responsibility for all hungarians, of a single hungarian nation, of collective rights, of self-government abroad on an ethnic basis, of the recognition of the right to vote for foreign hungarians. this has serious externalities. the venice commission may have challenged the principles of democracy, but that was all. today we are witnessing the government of viktor orbán amending the constitution four times already, depriving its own citizens of their rights. the provisions on students, the homeless, restrictions on freedom of speech, discrimination against churches and, in particular, restrictions on the independence of the judiciary are clear evidence of the challenge to the rule of law, eu law and council of europe standards. it is now clear that the commission spokeswoman's words are not enough, that she hopes hungary will uphold the commitments it has made and that the national legal system will be reformed in line with the letter and spirit of the eu legal system. but it's high time we steered this, mrs. reding, towards the rule of law. the crude signs of anti-semitism that the government tolerates not only in public, in academia, but also in parliament, indicate that there is a risk and therefore immediate action must be taken.
in writing pursuant to article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission shall implement the budget and manage programmes, and shall do so in cooperation with the member states under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, in accordance with article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as europe faces not only an economic and financial crisis but also a crisis of confidence in its institutions, parliament must in this situation scrutinise the commission's accounts with particular rigour. it is important that in the current situation of resource constraints due to the economic and financial crisis, so-called smart solidarity, and thus the use of union funds to implement reforms, to maintain financial discipline and to ensure political and economic stability, is absolutely necessary.
in writing − the court's special reports provide information on issues of concern relating to the use of funds. pursuant to article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission shall implement the budget and manage programmes, and shall do so in cooperation with the member states under its own responsibility, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, in accordance with article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the special reports of the auditors are important in this context, given the european parliament's role in granting discharge.
in writing − if you have the court's audit found that, as regards administrative expenditure in 2011, all the institutions had satisfactorily managed the control and surveillance systems required by regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002. on 24 april 2012, the secretary-general confirmed that he had reasonable assurance that the budget of the european parliament had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control framework provided provided the required guarantees as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. moreover, no significant errors were found in 93% of the 56 payments audited (three advance payments and 53 final payments).
in writing − the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds are presented in table 2 of the court of auditors' annual report. the main objective of the cotonou agreement, as the framework for the union's relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the overseas countries and territories (octs), is to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp and octs into the world economy. it is the european development fund which is the union's most important financial instrument for developing cooperation with the acp states.
written − the european council conclusions of 18 and 19 october 2012 indicated that the issue of democratic legitimacy and accountability will need to be further explored. all union institutions must be transparent and fully accountable to the citizens of the union for the use of the funds entrusted to them as union institutions. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors concluded that the payments as a whole relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011 were free from material error.
in writing in 2011, the court of justice of the european union's committed appropriations amounted to eur 335 904 453,30 (eur 323 784 221,30 in 2010) and the implementation rate of appropriations in section iv court of justice remained very high in 2011, totalling over 98% and even over 99% for appropriations in title 2. the court's budget is purely administrative, with 75% of it being spent on the institution's staff and 25% on buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure.
in writing in 2011, the court had a total of eur 134 337 000 in committed appropriations at its disposal (eur 148 600 000 in 2010). the rate of implementation of these appropriations reached 93% last year. the court's budget is purely administrative. the court's annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl, to ensure that the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied by the court to the entities it audits are applied. the financial statement must give a true and fair view of the court's financial situation.
in writing − the eesc had committed appropriations of eur 128 600 000 in 2011 (eur 123 173 749 in 2010) with a implementation rate of 95,4%, lower than the 98% achieved in 2010. the eesc budget is purely administrative, with a significant amount spent on expenditure relating to the staff of the institution and the remainder on buildings, furniture, equipment and various operating costs. on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors concluded that the payments as a whole for the year ended 31 december 2011 relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error.
written − the committee had an approved budget of eur 84 100 000 in 2011, of which eur 82 000 000 (eur 90 800 000 in 2010) was committed, with a drawdown rate of 97,5%, down from 99,4% in 2010. the committee's budget is purely administrative 72% of the appropriations are spent on the persons working in the institution and 28% on buildings, movable property, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure. the court of auditors found no significant weaknesses in the human resources and procurement issues audited in the committee of the regions in its 2011 annual report. it is important to note that the role of the committee, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, requires organisational adjustments.
in writing − the ombudsman's budget is purely administrative and in 2011 amounted to eur 9 427 395, with eur 7 318 795 allocated to title i (expenditure relating to persons working for the institution), eur 1 469 200 to title ii (buildings, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure) and eur 639 400 to title iii (expenditure relating to the performance of the institution's specific tasks). of the total budget, 92.54% was allocated to commitments (89.65% in 2010) and 85.62% was allocated to payments (84.03% in 2010). however, further efforts should be made to improve the rate of utilisation of the funds, and changes made should be closely monitored.
in writing − the budget of the supervisory officer is purely administrative, with a rate of implementation of expenditure on persons working for the institution of 75,63% (title 1) and a rate of implementation of expenditure on buildings, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure of 73,38% (title 2). after full payment of expenditure under both headings, the rate of implementation in 2011 was set at 85,03%. in 2011, the supervisor had a total of eur 7 564 137 in committed appropriations (eur 7 104 351 in 2010) and a drawdown rate of 89,31% (82,73% in 2010). while this is a positive development, further efforts to improve the implementation rate and to monitor the changes made are necessary.
in writing. − the european external action service (eeas) was established by article 27 (3) of the treaty on european union and started its work on 1 january 2011. it is a functionally autonomous body of the union, under the authority of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the eeas shall be responsible for the financial management of the administrative expenditure of its headquarters and of the union delegations. although 2011 was the first budget year for the eeas, it is fully responsible for it and must ensure strict compliance with the legislation.
in writing. − the importance of the tasks assigned to eu agencies and their direct impact on citizens' daily lives, especially in relation to the quality of medicines, food safety, aviation safety or the control of infectious disease outbreaks, is enormous. it is therefore of the utmost importance to preserve their independence, in particular in the case of regulatory agencies and agencies with independent collection and information functions. it is important to emphasise the obligation of all agencies to submit to the discharge authority a report by their executive director indicating the number and type of internal audits carried out by the internal auditor. recommendations and the measures drawn up on the basis of these recommendations must be adopted in accordance with article 72 (5) of regulation (ec, euratom) no 2343/2002.
in writing. − the agency's total budget for 2011 was eur 4 792 345, with a union contribution to the agency's 2011 budget of eur 4 362 607,98. the initial union contribution for 2011 was eur 4 362 607,98, the first year of the agency's financial autonomy. on the basis of the accounts, it can be concluded that the agency's initial budget for 2011 was eur 5 119 000 (including a contribution from the european free trade association of eur 119 000), and that the commitment rate of the appropriations reached 67%, with payments reaching 74% of the total appropriations managed. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the authority's total budget for the financial year 2011 of eur 1 178 785,60 was fully financed by a union contribution. the initial amount of the union contribution to the office's budget for 2011 was eur 1 178 785,60, the first year of the office's financial autonomy. the office's annual accounts show that commitments amounted to 63,4% of the total appropriations managed, while payments reached 70,1% (i.e. 44,5% of the available appropriations). the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the centre's budget shall include revenue consisting of payments made by the entities for which the centre works, as well as by the union institutions and bodies with which cooperation has been agreed in exchange for work carried out, including interinstitutional activities, and any other revenue. the centre's budget for 2011 was eur 51 299 000 and the budgetary result for 2011 decreased to eur 1 201 339,13 compared to eur 8 319 397,02 in 2010, representing a decrease of 85,56%. on the basis of the court's report, it can be concluded that the reduction is mainly due to a 15% decrease in revenue reflecting the centre's new pricing policy, which aims to align product prices with product costs. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the european centre for the development of vocational training, based in thessaloniki, was established by regulation (eec) no 337/75. on the basis of the centre's accounts for the financial year 2011, it can be concluded that the centre was allocated an amending budget of eur 1 106 655, bringing the total budget after adjustment to eur 18 870 845. according to the statement of the management board, the budget for 2011, financed by the union contribution, was implemented at 100%. the rate of cancellation of payment appropriations decreased from 14% in 2010 to 5,2% in 2011. the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the centre's accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the european police college has been allocated a total budget of eur 8 341 000 by the directorate-general for home affairs for 2011. on the basis of the academy's final financial statements, it can be concluded that in 2011 there were instances of inefficiencies in financial management, such as the use of payments in incorrect budget lines within chapters or titles. the academy shall provide the discharge authority with further detailed information on this issue, including the amounts and budget lines involved, as well as the measures taken to remedy the situation, as soon as possible.
in writing. − the agency is financed by approximately 75% of fees, charges and other revenue and approximately 25% of a contribution from the union budget. according to the court of auditors, the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 was eur 138 700 000, an increase of 1,09% compared to eur 137 200 000 in 2010. furthermore, according to the court of auditors, the union contribution to the agency's 2011 budget was eur 34 400 000, an increase of 0,59%, compared to eur 34 197 000 in 2010. efforts to exercise budgetary surveillance during the financial year contributed to a high budget implementation rate of 98,80%.
in writing. − the european banking authority, as a newly created agency based in london, was established by regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 and officially started its activities on 1 january 2011 as an independent body. it shall be an integral part of the european system of financial supervisors and shall act in close cooperation with its sister authorities, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority, the joint committee and the european systemic risk board. the total budget of the authority for 2011 was eur 12 685 000. in accordance with the regulation establishing the authority, 60% of the 2011 budget was financed by contributions from the member states and the european free trade association (efta) countries and 40% was financed from the union budget. at the end of 2011, the authority recorded a positive budgetary result of eur 3 579 861.
in writing. − the european centre for disease prevention and control, based in stockholm, was established by regulation (ec) no 851/2004. the centre's budget for 2011 was eur 56 656 000 compared to eur 57 800 000 in 2010, a decrease of 2%. the union's contribution to the centre's 2011 budget was eur 55 400 000. 2011 was the first year in which the centre received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors. according to the court, the centre concluded a framework contract in 2009 for a total value of eur 9 million, entitling it to sign subcontracts with selected suppliers up to this amount. the subsequent amendments increased the total value of these contracts to eur 14,9 million. by the end of 2011, payments totalling eur 12,2 million had been made, of which eur 3,2 million in 2011. commitments and payments above the limit of eur 9 million set by the framework contract are incorrect.
in writing. − if you have in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1907/2006, the european chemicals agency is financed by fees charged by industrial undertakings for the registration of chemicals or by a union subsidy as referred to in article 185 of the financial regulation. in 2011, the agency was indeed fully financed through fee revenue and did not receive any subsidy from the union. however, it received union support in the form of a contribution from the commission (directorate-general for environment) of only eur 500000 as agreed compensation for carrying out certain preparatory activities in relation to the forthcoming biocidal products regulation (eu) no 528/2012. the initial amount of the payment appropriations for 2011, fixed by the management board in december 2010, was eur 99 800 000. in 2011, the management board adopted two amending budgets. on the basis of the annual activity report, we can conclude that the budget implementation rate for 2011 was 96%.
in writing. − the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 was eur 62,2 million, on the basis of the annual accounts, it can be concluded that the commission's grant to the agency for 2011 amounted to eur 35 445 155,69 compared to eur 34 674 450,58 in 2010, and that the total revenue amounted to eur 44 447 489,45 (eur 45 550 051,50 in 2010). 132 of the 134 available posts were filled and 82 contract staff and seconded national experts were recruited by the end of 2011. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has opened an internal investigation into the agency.
in writing. − the agency's final budget for 2011 was eur 12 850 000 compared to eur 11 013 000 in 2010, an increase of 16.7%. the initial union contribution to the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 11 850 000, representing an increase of 40,90% compared to the initial contribution in 2010 (eur 8 410 000). the agency's final accounts for 2011 show that the agency has committed 99% of the contributions granted and paid 89% of the available payment appropriations. in 2010, the agency committed 98,3% of the grants awarded and paid 85,6% of the available payment appropriations. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011 was eur 77 309 800,00, an increase of 3,49% compared to eur 74 700 000 in 2010, and the authority is fully financed by a union contribution. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 82,05%, a slight decrease on the previous year (83,51%). in 2011, the amount allocated to the office from the union budget was eur 78 800 000. by the end of 2011, the office had filled 334 of the 355 available posts and recruited 109 contract staff and seconded national experts. however, 2011 was exceptional, given its move to a new location and the late settlement of related payments. the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the european institute for gender equality was established by regulation (ec) no 1922/2006 of 20 december 2006 and became independent on 15 june 2010. the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the institute for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the structure of the institute shall be based on the mandate and tasks defined in the basic regulation establishing the agency and on the objectives approved by the institute's management board in the mid-term work programme for the period 2010 to 2012 and in the annual work programme. at the end of 2011, the institute recorded a positive budgetary result of eur 1 156 400,29 (after deducting exchange rate differences of eur 2 650,64), which was then recorded in the accounts as a liability to the commission. i on the basis of the above, the european parliament granted the director of the european institute for gender equality discharge in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the authority shall be an integral part of the european system of financial supervisors and shall work in close cooperation with its sister authorities, the european banking authority and the european securities and markets authority, the joint committee and the european systemic risk board. at the end of 2011, the authority recorded a positive budgetary result of eur 2 804 969,81 (after deducting exchange rate differences of eur 2 437,59), which was then entered in the accounts as a liability to the commission. the european parliament has granted the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the year 2011 was the first year for which the court of auditors published a report on the institute's annual accounts. the total budget of the institute for 2011 was eur 64 294 640. the european parliament gives a discharge to the director of the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the institute's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 208 863 000, an increase of 0,22% compared to the financial year 2010. the total union contribution to the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 39 765 191,39, compared to eur 36 755 652,07 in 2010. the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011, and at the same time gives a discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, based in lisbon, was established by council regulation (eec) no 302/93. the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the total budget of the centre for 2011 was eur 16 274 205,07 compared to eur 15 900 323 in 2010, an increase of 2,35%. the union's contribution to the centre's 2011 budget was eur 15 400 000. taking into account, inter alia, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the european parliament decided to grant the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency's budget for 2011 amounted to eur 56,4 million compared to eur 54,4 million in the previous year. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism (a7-0078/2013), parliament gives its consent to the closure of the final annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011, and also gives discharge to the executive director of the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the total budget of the agency for 2011 was eur 8 102 921, a reduction of 0,003% compared to 2010 (eur 8 133 188), whereas the initial union contribution to the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 7 931 858, compared to eur 7 928 200 in 2010. the initial union contribution for 2011 was eur 7 931 858. budget implementation improved compared to the previous year. furthermore, and on the basis of the above, the european parliament granted the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − in the absence of a regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework (mff regulation) by the end of this year, article 312 (4) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides for the application of the ceilings of the last year of the current mff, and article 30 of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in force, which provides for the extension of the 2013 ceilings, adjusted on the basis of a fixed deflator of 2% per annum, until a new mff regulation is adopted, will apply. i believe that it is in the context of the continuing economic and financial problems, as reflected in the austerity measures taken by several member states in response to the debt crisis, that parliament should continue to exercise a high degree of budgetary responsibility, control and restraint. similarly, i think it is important that parliament should seek to strike a delicate balance between budgetary constraints and structural savings on the one hand and a concerted effort to achieve efficiency on the other.
every country in the european union, whether in the eurozone or not, is facing a crisis. restrictive measures are being taken, and the consequences are being felt by people in every state. one important tool for dealing with the crisis is the stabilisation of the banking system. a eur 500 billion stabilisation mechanism has been set up for the euro area countries. for non-euro area countries, it is 50 billion. i therefore appreciate and supported the rapporteur's work, as it brings more financial assistance instruments to non-euro area member states. the lack of recapitalisation of banks and greater accountability of those who run them are only partial solutions. the foundations are being laid for a future banking union, which is to provide a single supervisory mechanism, a single resolution authority and a single deposit protection scheme. these measures will apply to all eu countries, including those outside the euro area.
in writing. − in order to ensure a genuine level playing field between euro-area and non-euro-area member states, it is necessary to aim to make bank recapitalisation possible also in non-euro-area member states. non-euro area member states have access to the balance of payments instrument, but its possibilities are rather limited compared with the ems. there appear to be no legal problems preventing the use of the balance of payments instrument to recapitalise banks. however, the instrument is limited by the amount of funds available to it. it is assumed that the maximum capacity of the balance of payments instrument cannot exceed eur 60 billion. if one of the borrowing member states were unable to repay the loan, the eu could risk being unable to repay its own liabilities. if a financial institution were to be recapitalised directly through the balance of payments facility, the eu budget would have an exposure to that financial institution. the risk is therefore significantly lower if the loan is granted to a member state rather than directly to a financial institution.
in writing. − if you have in the bank's annual report, the current president of the european central bank (ecb), mario draghi, called 2011 an "extraordinary year". whether he was, time will tell. although a new cycle has begun, its beginnings can be traced back to 2010 - partly to the worsening crisis and partly to the ecb's increasingly far-reaching interventions within the union, not least in the form of the recovery plans it has helped to enforce against some deficit countries. the ecb's actions were clearly guided by the context of the economic and social crisis and the 2011 annual report clearly reflects these changes. while looking ahead, one of the projects facing the eu is to establish a banking union to enable more effective, faster and appropriate responses to be used in times of crisis. this project will continue to follow its basic assumptions. however, i believe that it will not be possible to implement it without a clear relationship between the instruments, tasks and responsibilities in terms of legislation, monetary policy-making, surveillance and crisis management.
in writing. − the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. according to the agency's annual financial report for 2011, the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 25 988 665, an increase of 7,62% compared to eur 24 147 240 in 2010. the european parliament approves the closure of the accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011. it also decided to grant the executive director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the authority is a newly created agency based in paris. it was established by regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 and officially started its activities on 1 january 2011 as an independent body. it shall be an integral part of the european system of financial supervisors and shall work in close cooperation with its sister authorities, the european banking authority and the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, within the joint committee and with the european systemic risk board. its total budget allocated for 2011 was eur 16 964 913,92. at the end of 2011, the authority recorded a positive budgetary result of eur 4 457 244,82 (after deducting exchange rate differences of eur 4 645,56), which was then recorded in the accounts as a liability to the commission. the european parliament has granted the executive director of the european securities and markets authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the european foundation for vocational training, based in turin, was set up by council regulation (eec) no 1360/90. the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the foundation for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the total union contribution to the foundation's budget for 2011 was eur 19 850 000, an increase of 2,86% compared to eur 19 297 822 in 2010. at the end of 2011, the foundation recorded a positive budgetary result of eur 117 686,58. the european parliament approves the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011. it also decided to grant the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs (a7-0085/2013), parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011, and at the same time gives discharge to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing, the euratom supply agency was set up in luxembourg as early as 1958. decision 2008/114/ec established its new statute and made it a european agency. the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. taking into account, inter alia, the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0104/2013), the european parliament decided to grant the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the executive agency for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the court stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the total budget of the foundation for 2011 was eur 20 600 000, a reduction compared to the 2010 budget year (eur 20 900 000). the initial union contribution to the foundation's budget for 2011 was eur 20 210 000, compared to eur 19 067 159 in 2010. the european parliament approved the closure of the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011, and also granted the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − eurojust, based in the hague, was established by council decision 2002/187/jha. the court stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011 was eur 31 357 900,47 compared to eur 32 241 523,92 in 2010, representing a decrease of 2,91%. the union's contribution to eurojust's budget for 2011 was eur 31 333 740, an increase of 5,20% compared to eur 30 163 220 in 2010. the balance in eurojust's 2011 operating result account was positive and amounted to a total of eur 2 496 985,21. on the basis of the above, the european parliament has decided to grant the administrative director of eurojust discharge in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − council directive 2006/112/ec of 28 november 2006 on the common system of value added tax lays down rules on the time and place of supply of goods and services, the taxable amount, the taxable amount (vat) and the right to deduct. in order to ensure reliable and uniform treatment, to prevent irregularities, distortions of competition, double taxation or non-taxation and to limit the risk of tax evasion, i consider it important and justified to introduce specific rules covering the treatment of vat vouchers. at the same time, the tax treatment of the transactions linked to the voucher depends on the specific characteristics of the voucher. i therefore consider it important to distinguish between the different types of vouchers and to lay down the distinguishing features in union legislation. i also believe that a uniform framework for vouchers is a necessary condition for the implementation of the rules on the change of place of delivery in business-to-consumer relations by 2015. without this, it could be that an undertaking which sells identical vouchers to private persons in two different member states could apply completely different vat treatment to both vouchers, even if the vouchers and the goods or services to which they relate are the same. i consider this to be rather counterproductive in terms of simplifying and unifying the approaches envisaged in the new rules for the business-to-consumer relationship.
in writing − if you have the partial unification of the rules on the common system of value added tax is an important step towards the creation of a single market. the current vat system is not efficient. moreover, it is not in line with the concept of the internal market as set out in the primary treaties, as confirmed by the case law of the court of justice of the european union. it is clear from its case-law that anything which makes the exercise of fundamental freedoms less attractive, even indirectly, is contrary to european law. the european union has the mandate to act in this area and the duty to redress this adverse situation. the commission proposal is beneficial for public administrations as well as for businesses. for example, it avoids a situation where a company operating in several member states does not pay tax in any of them, thus eliminating the loss of revenue for the public treasury. on the other hand, undertakings will benefit from the legal certainty they have gained in meeting their tax obligations. for the reasons i have already mentioned, i welcome and support the commission's proposal.
in writing. − the european police office, based in the hague, was established by a council decision (decision 2009/371/jha). the court of auditors stated that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the year 2011 was the second year in which the office was financially managed as a union agency. the total budget of the office for 2011 was eur 84 771 084,01 compared to eur 91 830 691,75 in 2010, representing a decrease of 7,69%. the union contribution to the office's budget for 2011 was eur 83 469 000. the balance of the office 's budgetary management for 2011 was positive and amounted to a total of eur 6 938 170,36 (after deducting exchange rate differences of eur 10 632,56). the european parliament gives a discharge to the director of the european police office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − according to the court's statement, the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency's annual accounts shall give a true and fair view, in all material respects, of its financial position as at 31 december 2011 and of the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year in question, in accordance with the provisions of its financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a7-0102/2013), parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts of the agency and at the same time gives its discharge to the director for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − if you have the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the agency's total budget for 2011 was eur 118 200 000 compared to eur 93 200 000 in the financial year 2010. the union contribution to the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 111 000 000, compared to eur 89 100 000 in 2010. taking into account, inter alia, the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a7-0079/2013), the european parliament approved the agency's accounts and, on the basis of those facts, decided to grant the executive director discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the european gnss agency became financially autonomous in 2006. the court of auditors has stated that the agency's accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0065/2013), the european parliament has approved the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2011 and has also decided to grant the executive director of the european gnss agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research plan for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a variety of applications, to strengthen europe's competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the company started operating as a stand-alone entity in october 2009. the court of auditors has found that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable. the european parliament shall approve the annual accounts and at the same time grant the executive director discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years and aims to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the union with a view to bringing them to life as soon as possible. the company started to operate independently in november 2009. the court of auditors considers that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable. taking into account inter alia the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0086/2013), parliament gives its consent to the closure of the accounts and gives discharge to the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different application areas. it became financially independent in july 2010. according to the court of auditors, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable. the european parliament has approved the annual accounts and gives a discharge to the executive director of the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the fuel cell and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership under regulation (ec) no 521/2008 for a period until 31 december 2017 to focus on the development of market applications, thereby facilitating additional industry efforts to rapidly bring fuel cell and hydrogen technology to life. as the company has only been financially independent since november 2010, it produced its first annual accounts for the whole financial year in 2011. the court of auditors has declared the accounts as reliable. consequently, and on the basis of those facts, the european parliament decided to grant the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to significantly increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process with the long-term aim of the pharmaceutical industry producing more effective and safer innovative medicines. it started operating independently in november 2009. the court of auditors has stated that the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the european parliament therefore approves the annual accounts and at the same time decides to grant the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years. it started operating independently in march 2008. according to the court of auditors, the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and the underlying transactions are legal and regular. on the basis of the above, parliament approved the accounts and decided to grant the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to implement the single european sky air traffic management (sesar) research programme, which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe. it started operating independently in august 2007. the court of auditors has found that the joint undertaking's accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the european parliament thus approves the accounts of the joint undertaking and at the same time, taking into account all the circumstances and considerations, gives a discharge to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance constitutes an important mechanism for citizens, enabling them to claim and enforce child support against a debtor established in a third country. the european parliament has already approved the convention. however, in order to be applicable to the european union, it is necessary and important to deposit an instrument of approval. i consider it justified that all measures should be taken in the near future to enable the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance to enter into force.
in writing − the adoption of the hague convention is primarily a measure to protect children, as the bulk of claims relate to child support. most children on child support are living in a single-parent family. for a single parent, the financial burden of providing for the family is doubled, and in many cases, alimony is a necessary means of covering the financial deficit. late payments often result in a situation where a child's basic needs must be denied. the commission should be able to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market on the basis of the criteria set out in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. it is therefore necessary that the hague convention enter into force as soon as possible. on the other hand, i would like to point out that effective child support is no substitute for a loving parent. therefore, not only should means be sought that address the negative consequences of family breakdown but also those that prevent such adverse situations from occurring in the first place.
in writing − every child has the right to an adequate standard of living necessary for his or her physical, mental, moral and social development, regardless of where he or she is born and where he or she lives. parents have a legal obligation to provide for their children and are responsible, within their means and financial means, for ensuring the living conditions necessary for their development. the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance provides a good basis for a worldwide system of administrative cooperation and recognition and enforcement of decisions and agreements relating to maintenance. it provides for free legal aid in virtually all matters relating to child support and simplified procedures for recognition and enforcement. i supported the report because the measures adopted in annexes ii and iii not only simplify the procedure but also help to eliminate the frequently recurring delays in the recovery of maintenance for children and other family members.
the comprehensive monitoring report on croatia is being discussed on behalf of the efd group at a time when virtually all the institutions concerned have decided that croatia will become a full member of the european community as from 1 july. the croats have already elected the members with whom we will co-decide on all the union's problems in the european parliament. the croatian citizens, their state institutions, their elected representatives are now practically our partners in the administration of the affairs of the european community. it is certain that we will have to get used to each other a little, especially during their first six months in the union, but from the communication with our croatian friends during the period of cooperation in the joint committee of the croatian and european parliament, i believe that the croats are better prepared for membership of the union than some of the countries that have joined the union in the past. no country has entered the community without bringing with it some unfinished business. i am confident that together with the croatian administration we will solve their problems very quickly. i sincerely wish our croatian friends a successful and peaceful life in the european community.
i would like to begin by complimenting my colleague mr rouchko on the excellent report we are discussing today. the conclusion of accession negotiations with croatia is a success of the european enlargement policy and an important signal for the transformation of the countries in the region. i am pleased that we can speak today of croatia as a country that has fulfilled all the commitments of the accession negotiations and is therefore ready for membership. membership of the union opens up many possibilities, but on the other hand it also imposes obligations to the values that the european union represents. at the moment, i am therefore concerned about some of the manifestations of nationalist rhetoric that have accompanied the introduction of the bilingualism law in vukovar. such statements do not resolve the situation but, on the contrary, increase tensions, since it is clear that respect for the rights of persons belonging to national minorities is part of the values of the european union. one personal memory: almost exactly 10 years ago, in athens, as slovakia's foreign minister, i signed the accession treaty with the union. in the 10 years since then, slovakia has proved that it is a stable part of the union and that it can help with its experience and advice to countries that are seeking membership, such as croatia. and i firmly believe that croatia will also take up this baton and, once it joins, will help its colleagues who are striving to become members of the european union with the balkans.
i must say that the news of the enlargement of the european union to include croatia is gratifying news, wonderful. to begin with, i will briefly dwell on the european parliament elections which took place this sunday, 14 april, and i am of course pleased that the winning epp candidates six were elected. but we've all been watching closely the steps towards positive change that this country has taken over the last decade. hard and honest work has enabled croats to join the union, to enjoy its benefits, but also to share together the ideas and values of the founding fathers of the european union. croatia has succeeded in complying with the recommendations in the areas identified by the union as problematic. i have said many times that croatia is much better prepared in the accession phase than countries such as bulgaria and romania were when they joined. croatia is a country with a culture that is, in its essential characteristics, typical of all european countries, and i therefore welcome croats to the union.
first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur charles tannock for a good and quality report. montenegro is currently the leader of the integration process in the balkans. that's worth a shot. the opening of accession negotiations has strengthened important reform processes in the country. i would therefore like to call on montenegrin politicians to continue these reforms. the work still ahead of them concerns in particular the fight against corruption and organised crime. here, important measures will need to be taken to strengthen transparency in the financing of political parties and political campaigns and to deepen the investigation of corruption cases. the important shift in political and economic criteria that the country has achieved needs to be deepened and a stable democratic system established. the political elite of montenegro must work on this constantly. therefore, the situation that has arisen since the presidential election is an important reminder of how sensitive this issue is. on the one hand, all the contentious issues related to these elections must be clarified as soon as possible, but on the other hand, it must be made clear that a boycott of parliament is not the right solution. in conclusion, i would like to recall once again that the accession negotiations in montenegro are an important positive signal for the other countries in the region. the commission should therefore be strong and consistent and continue to emphasise the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria.
i often hear the view that accession negotiations with montenegro are a simple matter. the idea that montenegro's path to the eu will be easy and completely seamless is false. it's important to point that out. the truth is that after croatia's accession, the accession process for each new country will be even more difficult, the rules even stricter and the openness of the member states to enlargement even weaker. i agree with rapporteur charles tannock. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. montenegro cannot afford to have political crises or to question the results of elections. the country is on the right track and is the clear leader in the region, as my speaker said. but it must not underestimate the situation, which is the greatest risk to its european integration process.
mr president, serbia’s progress in eu integration carries immense strategic consequences for the western balkans. simply, without serbia moving onto the next stage, the entire enlargement agenda will be thrown into uncertainty – without even mentioning the rise of extremism in serbia itself – if the opening of accession negotiations is denied it. the eu is right to insist on normalisation with kosovo as a pre-condition, and i say this as a representative of a country that does not recognise kosovo’s statehood. i believe serbia and kosovo will eventually settle on a modus vivendi – with, of course, the help of mrs ashton’s mediation efforts. the real danger to the normalisation of relations is that serbian politicians will abandon the pursuit of a settlement because they lose hope that the opening of negotiations in 2013 remains a realistic scenario, and it is in the power of the council to prevent that.
mr president, i fully support the call to the council to set a date for the beginning of the accession negotiations, as proposed by the rapporteur, mr kacin, in his good and objective report. continuation of dialogue and the normalisation of relations with kosovo is currently the key point on the agenda – naturally so, since only good and sustainable relations between serbia and kosovo can open the door to the european union for both of them. i would also like to underline the need for further reforms in the judiciary that is mentioned in the report. in this respect i want to encourage the serbian authorities to press ahead resolutely with their work concerning article 359 on the criminal court and the reclassification of cases concerning the abuse of public office and application of the new article 234. in short, i support further engagement with the serbian integration process as regards setting the date for opening negotiations, and i encourage our serbian partners to keep up with the reform process.
mr kacin's rather extensive report notes the significant progress made by yugoslavia in reforming and restructuring its political and social system. there is no doubt that certain residues of the intertwining of political structures with organised crime may complicate the ongoing process of liberalisation and democratisation of social life in serbia and that is why, i think, we must send a signal to the serbian citizens that the european union values the positive changes brought about by the country's efforts to move closer to the union. and here i would like to point out the imbalance i see in the motion for a resolution on serbia and kosovo. on the one hand, we recommend that the serbian authorities strengthen minority self-government in vojvodina. on the other hand, we refuse to recognize the self-governing mechanisms of the serbs in kosovo. are the serbs in kosovo worse than the minorities in vojvodina, if they are denied equal rights?
today, we heard some important reflections on the enlargement process in the western balkans. the eu plays a key role here, thanks to its enlargement policy. the changes we are witnessing in the region are closely linked to integration processes. we must therefore be aware of the responsibility we have as europeans for this region and for the future of the union. it is in our interest that no part of the region is isolated and possibly excluded from the integration process. this is even more true in the case of kosovo. i believe that relations between the union and kosovo can be intensified despite the divergent positions of the member states. i am convinced that, if the conditions are met, the council should confirm its commitment of december 2012 and approve the negotiating directives for the stabilisation and association agreement. the stabilisation and association process is an important reform tool. it has brought many positive changes to the region and can be a key reform instrument here as well. but let us be honest, much depends on kosovo and its policies. kosovo now has an opportunity to move closer to the union, but it is essential that its political elites find the will to set a clear course for reform. this concerns in particular the strengthening of democratic institutions, the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and the strengthening of the rule of law. i believe that there is potential for positive change in kosovo and that its people are committed to working towards it. the union should help and support them in this.
i admit that i am somewhat embarrassed by the ongoing efforts to integrate kosovo into the european community. not because i have any prejudice against the citizens of this province, but because to this day the treasonous acts contained in the report of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, of which the highest officials of the local government are suspected, are not investigated. the call contained in paragraph 25 of the motion for a resolution, where we call on people suspected of genocide against serbs to ensure the protection of witnesses to crimes that could convict them, seems insidious to me. and i don't know if it's appropriate for a serious european parliament document. the fact that after the war in kosovo some 2 000 people are still missing, that kosovo is a centre for trafficking in human beings and children for sexual exploitation, clearly speaks to who is really in power in this province. the results of the eulex mission in kosovo, i think, are best left unsaid.
madam president, commissioner, as you mentioned in your introduction, the commission has decided to extend the closure date for the first nine initiatives, in order to allow all citizens to participate actively. the new deadline is, as you said, november 1st. the council of ministers does not accept this new deadline. national governments are not sure how to implement the change in the closing date. the council also refuses to answer a priority parliamentary question, which may render certain citizens' initiatives obsolete. i am addressing the council of the union today, in particular, to ask for an immediate answer to my priority parliamentary question no 1905/2013. a priority parliamentary question must be answered within three weeks. however, the council has refused for six weeks to decide on the closing date for the collection of signatures for the first nine ongoing citizens' initiatives. the council's refusal to comment on such an important issue as the closure date leads to major legal uncertainty in the field of european citizens' initiatives. i therefore ask the commission and the council to agree not to leave the first nine initiatives in the lurch, which is a real obstacle.
i fully support the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and ukraine, because it is of great importance to the people. it deepens human relationships and allows ordinary people to travel. i come from eastern slovakia, and ukraine is a very close and good neighbor. the citizens of ukraine must be given a signal that the european union is willing to strengthen partnership and good neighbourly relations also with non-eu member states. the agreement will allow representatives of civil society who regularly travel to member states for educational training and conferences, students, representatives of religious communities, but also other persons to have easier access to annual or five-year visas, but i firmly believe that it is also an important step towards the establishment of a visa-free regime between ukraine and the european union.
in writing. − the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of visas applies from 1 january 2008. it has had great success, as evidenced by the low rate of visa refusals just over three per cent. the agreement on visa facilitation is of immense importance for people's lives. it enriches and deepens interpersonal relations, for example by making travel easier for the general public, ngos, journalists and young people. this eu-ukraine agreement can also effectively contribute to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by facilitating people-to-people contacts and travel between the neighbouring states.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the facilitation of the issuance of visas entered into force on 1 january 2008. this amended version of the agreement represents an improvement on the original agreement and brings clear improvements for the citizens of moldova. the purpose of the amendment was to further facilitate the issuing of visas to citizens of the republic of moldova for stays of 90 days in any 180-day period and to prepare for the abolition of the visa requirement for those citizens, subject to certain conditions being met. the future introduction of a visa-free regime for short-stay travellers from moldova to the union will deepen cooperation with the eu and help to establish closer relations with the european union. in view of the republic of moldova's aspirations to a closer relationship with europe, the agreement in its amended form is an encouraging step towards promoting interpersonal relations, economic development, cultural and scientific dialogue, stability, security and the further well-being of citizens. i am convinced that the visa facilitation agreement offers an opportunity for the countries of the union and the republic of moldova to come closer together and avoid the fact that a barrier is being created between the eu and its neighbour.
in writing. − all human rights - civil, political, economic, social and cultural - apply to everyone everywhere. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is at the heart of the european union. in the field of human rights and democracy, the eu must be principled in the standards and values it seeks to promote, creative in the ways it chooses to do so, and absolutely committed to achieving concrete results. in its external action, the european union has developed a wide range of policy instruments and guidelines to put its human rights and democracy commitments into practice. it has worked with eu member states, the european parliament and civil society. several guidelines adopted by the council guide eu action on key human rights issues such as the death penalty, the fight against torture, the protection of human rights defenders, freedom of religion or belief, the rights of the child, women's rights or sexual orientation. i am convinced that by all these steps the union is seeking to promote not only respect for human rights themselves in the difficult times of the economic crisis, but also democracy itself.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis has affected all countries negatively and has threatened human rights, including civil and political rights. currently, approximately 5.1 billion people in the world lack adequate social security, 2.6 billion people lack access to adequate sanitation, 873 million people suffer from chronic hunger and 27 million have been unemployed since the start of the crisis. these calculations could be continued, but my interest is not to repeat the figures and effects of the financial and economic crisis that are already known, but to draw attention in particular to a situation that can be considered a violation of human rights. i therefore welcome all proposals and measures from the eu that lead to the strengthening of the rights of women, young people, children, the elderly and the disabled. i supported the report because the eu's initiatives are all the more important as 2013 is the european year of citizens' rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of deletion of article 4 of the sógor report. i am disappointed by the current situation of sending the report back to committee, also keeping article 4. besides creating uncertainty in statistics, the current version of the report has unpredictable consequences for some member states, mainly the new ones. it is unacceptable that one of the european basic principles, namely the principle of free movement of people actually creates discrimination against new member states. it is indisputable that there is a phenomenon of numerous new member states’ citizens ‘using’ their right of free movement seeking job in one of the ‘old’ member states. however, often this is about short-term residence linked to short- or fix-term working contracts after which the ‘newcomers’ return to their home countries. we should not forget that this is about the movement of eu citizens within the eu and not an immigration issue. it is about living the basic principles of the eu. determining the qualified majority in the council by "usual residence" would have therefore undermine the spirit of european citizenship and would have fundamental consequences, resulting that the voice of citizens of new member states would have been curtailed.
in writing. − if you have the growing and complex demographic challenges have created a clear need for a common regulatory framework for demographic statistics at european level. it is necessary and important to collect high-quality information on the population and life events related to the population in the union. almost every policy area the eu deals with - whether economic, social or environmental policy - requires high-quality demographic statistics to help set operational targets and assess progress. the democratic process within the union requires annual population estimates of the highest possible quality. data on the total population of each member state, collected and published by eurostat, are used each year in the union's decision-making process (qualified majority voting in the council). moreover, the monitoring of progress made in the eu in terms of economic, social and territorial cohesion is assessed through a report based, inter alia, on regional demographic data from eurostat. for this reason, in my view, european demographic statistics have such an important justification.
in writing. − i would like to express my regret that the report on european demographic statistics, which is also relevant to the future decision-making procedures of the eu in the council, was not discussed in plenary. i believe that the usual estimation of population by place of residence for qualified majority voting in the council may lead to a new kind of political imbalance at eu level, may not reflect the real demographic situation in europe and may undermine the form of cooperation between member states as it is known today. european migration processes are not new developments, such movements have always existed, only their causes change. the european union is founded on the principle of free movement, which includes the right of citizens of the union to move and reside freely within its territory. it is precisely contrary to the spirit of that principle to adopt rules which are likely to upset the political balance between member states by using data obtained from union citizens enjoying the right of free movement. the proposal for a regulation does not place adequate population statistics at the heart of the council's vote count. the evaluation report provided for in the review clause supplementing the text of the regulation will be given particular attention, as it will have to give a realistic picture of, inter alia, the impact of demographic data collected under the new system on qualified majority decision-making in the council.
in writing − the importance of accurate and reliable statistics and information on the population and life events associated with democratic processes in the european union is growing. although at first glance it may seem that we are voting on a very technical report, we must be aware that high-quality statistical data on individual member states are also used in the decision-making process within the structures of the european union. qualified majority voting in the eu council will be defined as from 1 november 2014 by a majority representing 55% of the council members, drawn from the 15 member states and representing 65% of the population. if our decisions are to be fully legitimate, they must also be based on the right data. it is now eurostat that publishes demographic and statistical data every year and monitors the economic, social and territorial progress of the member states and of the eu itself. if we do not want to jeopardise the collection of statistical data by changing definitions and international best practices, we should generally follow the approach of the european commission and the council. i believe that our task is to lay the foundation for the harmonised collection of reliable demographic data.
in writing. − if you have under the eu waste shipment regulation, the export of hazardous waste from eu countries to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998. due to the diversity of hazardous materials on board a ship, any ship coming from the eu for dismantling is hazardous waste and can therefore only be legally dismantled within the oecd. however, this legislation is almost systematically circumvented. according to the commission's impact assessment, in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged ships were actually dismantled outside the oecd countries, mainly in south asia. the global ship scrapping rate increased almost sixfold between 2007 and 2009. in the current situation, many ship owners are scrapping their vessels rather than investing in expensive additional equipment. in order to improve the current situation, the commission aims, through the ship recycling regulation in question, to significantly reduce the negative impacts associated with the recycling of eu-flagged ships, in particular in south asia, without creating an unnecessary economic burden.
in writing. − croatia's accession to the eu is scheduled for 1 july 2013. twenty-four member states and croatia have ratified the treaty of accession and three member states have yet to do so. as regards the final requirements for membership of the union, croatia is moving towards meeting the remaining requirements. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to promote the integration of the croatian minority into the eu. i believe that croatia's membership will strengthen the european union and ensure its security, enrich its culture and heritage and serve as a powerful reminder to other candidate countries that conscientious compliance with commitments brings tangible and lasting benefits to their citizens. i think it is appropriate to recall that croatia is expected to play a constructive role in its neighbourhood, in particular by promoting further eu enlargement, consolidation of democracy, regional cooperation and reconciliation of the western balkan peoples.
in writing − i am sincerely delighted that croatia's 20-year long wish to become a member of the eu is becoming a reality. the completion of accession is proof that the eu is fulfilling its commitments if a country is fulfilling its tasks. it's a great success of expansion. i know what a long journey it's been, what it's meant, and what's still ahead. i congratulate the first 12 meps and all the croatian people. on july 1st, they have a great opportunity. but also a great responsibility. it is membership that will change the future of croatia. full membership is a big commitment. they face further domestic challenges in domestic politics as well as improving the functioning of the economy. in foreign policy, they will take another very important step forward, transferring their experience further east for the integration of the balkan states into the eu. i wish them every success on this journey.
in writing. − montenegro has made significant progress towards membership of the european union. however, some shortcomings in the accession process remain and need to be addressed, particularly in the fight against organised crime and high-level corruption. however, the accession process should remain the driving force behind the ongoing reforms. montenegro is the first country to adopt a new approach in eu negotiations, with a stronger focus on fundamental freedoms, justice, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the country continues to play a key role in regional stability. in my view, the council's decision to open accession negotiations with montenegro is welcome. i consider this decision to be a significant step in the country's accession process and also a clear confirmation of the eu's commitment to the future of the western balkan countries in europe.
in writing. − on 1 march 2012, the european council granted serbia eu candidate status, thus reaffirming in a way the clear european perspective in line with the eu's commitments to the entire western balkans region. serbia has taken a number of measures aimed at normalising relations with kosovo and has made sufficient efforts to fulfil the political criteria and conditions of the stabilisation and association process. i believe that serbia, like any country aspiring to eu membership, must be judged on merit in terms of fulfilling, applying and complying with the same set of criteria. i also believe that serbia can be an important player in ensuring security and stability in the region and should maintain and strengthen a constructive approach to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, as this is what is of great importance and justification in the process of european integration.
in writing. −the end of the independence oversight is a significant step for kosovo and strengthens the responsibility of the kosovo authorities to develop and implement reforms on the path to european integration. 98 of the 193 united nations member states, including 22 of the 27 eu member states, have recognised kosovo's independence. all member states of the union shall support kosovo's european perspective in line with the eu's commitments to the entire western balkan region. i believe that it is precisely the european perspective of kosovo that provides the major impetus for the implementation of the desired reforms. i believe that the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement also represents an important step towards kosovo's future integration into european structures and, ultimately, towards membership of the union itself. because it is such an agreement that can create new opportunities for strengthening neighbourly cooperation and regional integration in kosovo.
the brutal punishment of independent journalists and bloggers in vietnam is based on a totalitarian provision of the vietnamese penal code, which, contrary to internationally recognized human rights, allows for high rates of imprisonment for violations of the interests of the state or for criticism of the government. at the regular meetings between the representatives of the european union and vietnam, we should therefore demand the immediate implementation of the international covenant on civil and political rights into the law of vietnam, in accordance with the agreement and the partnership and cooperation. we cannot continue to provide material aid to a country whose regime continues to be based on totalitarian provisions of law. at the same time, we must openly ask our vietnamese partners to review the judicial processes and review the decisions on detention without trial in which vietnamese journalists or bloggers have been convicted for free expression of opinions. the partnership and cooperation agreement also provides an appropriate basis for reminding the vietnamese side of its commitment to ratify the rome statute of the international criminal court and the convention against torture.
for the efd group the harassment of opposition figures in kazakhstan, with them being prosecuted and imprisoned on false charges of extremism or misconduct, suggests that efforts to reform the criminal law in the country need to be stepped up. the fact that kazakhstan is currently a member of the un human rights council and as a member of the osce committed itself in 2010 to respect and implement the principles of that organisation entitles us to require its administration to respect these international commitments. it is a pity that when high commissioner ashton visited kazakhstan last november she did not take this opportunity to draw our kazakh partners' attention to the unacceptable behaviour of state institutions towards opposition forces. i therefore believe that the european parliament has an obligation to express our reservations about the abuse of state power to suppress opposition political forces in kazakhstan and to encourage the kazakh authorities to intensify their dialogue with the venice commission on the forthcoming amendment of the criminal code. kazakhstan is playing an increasingly important role in its region and we must therefore strive to ensure that the new legal environment, after the implementation of the relevant reforms, allows not only judges and lawyers, but also journalists and opposition politicians to carry out their work freely.
for the efd group there is no doubt that human rights based on universal values, including the prohibition of arbitrary detention and the right to a fair trial, also apply to prisoners interned at guantanamo. the fact that after 11 years, more than half of the prisoners have been cleared of charges and are still being held suggests that our american partners themselves do not know how to deal with the existence of this internment camp. the divisive attitude towards the future of guantanamo is also evident from the position of us president obama, who first announced in the summer of 2009 that he would close the prison and later authorized a law that would allow the prison to continue to exist. the ongoing hunger strike of the guantanamo prisoners is a reminder not only to us but also to the american side that the problem of the people detained in guantanamo needs to be solved in a legal and civilized manner. i want to believe that our american partners can do it in a reasonable time.
for the efd group. the european union's massive support for the expansion of renewable energy production is already producing significant results. new technologies for the production of energy from renewable sources are gradually becoming competitive, which is slowly increasing the market share of this type of energy. however, a problem for these energies in electricity generation is the considerable variability of capacities, often dependent on natural conditions wind strength, tidal intensity, wave size, water flow or solar radiation intensity. in the renewal of the european union's energy system, we must therefore count on greater coordination between suppliers of energy from different sources, so that we can gradually and effectively compensate for fluctuations in the consumer network, even if we use efficient energy storage methods. it is evident that, alongside the construction of new renewable energy capacity, the technical infrastructure needs to be modernised and adapted to new needs. only then will we be able to get more renewable energy into homes and into manufacturing.
in writing. the deepwater horizon explosion killed 11 workers and spilled 4.9 million barrels of crude oil into the sea in 2010. this accident was one of the most serious ecological disasters of our time. the restoration work took nearly six months. the accident on the deep-sea platform has also prompted the eu to review the current regulation of offshore oil and gas activities. in the interest of the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, it is necessary to ensure that the sector applies best practices in the eu-wide control of major hazards. strengthen the union's preparedness and response capacities and clarify the existing legal framework on liability and redress. cooperation and exchange of information between member states should also be ensured. the newly established working group of the union authorities should be fully exploited. by means of a state-of-the-art framework and by clarifying the eu rules, we can ensure safe extraction conditions throughout the union.
the european court of human rights ruled last week that if a healthy person wants to perform euthanasia, the state should create the conditions for it. otherwise, the state is in breach of article 8 of the european convention on the right to privacy. article 2 of the convention guarantees the right to life for every human being. the right to euthanasia simply cannot be compatible with this convention. this is also confirmed by the legal situation of the vast majority of member states. if we elevate the right to privacy over the right to life, we destroy the natural hierarchy of rights enshrined in the convention. i would therefore urge my colleagues who ignore the needs of the natural family in the creation of european standards to read the gros judgment in detail. because if old people who are healthy in body and mind see no reason to go on living, it is a signal that the family bonds between our generations are breaking down.
the european parliament elections will be held in exactly one year. the current members who decide to stand again will have a very difficult time answering some questions to their constituents about the functioning of the european union. on 9 may, as part of the celebrations of europe day, we spoke in the squares, on the streets and from the rostrum about the benefits and the functioning of the european union. people have the impression that the european union is only here for good times, not for times of financial and economic crisis. it's hard to explain to voters why we approve financial aid a year and a half after a natural disaster, why we're not able to help young people get jobs and apply. so instead of campaigning, let us try to make quick decisions in favour of the people and, when deciding on the budget for the new financial period, let us not forget young people and support programmes such as erasmus, galileo and cross-border cooperation.
while i understand mrs cornelissen's approach of not wanting to point out the shortcomings in the assessment of the status of women and respect for their rights in the balkan countries, i cannot ignore the discrepancy between the findings of the report presented and our resolution of last month, where we called on the kosovo government and parliament to be more active in the implementation of the legislation aimed at combating domestic violence and trafficking in human beings in the country, in paragraph 38 of the assessment of the kosovo integration process. we also noted the concern over the high rate of unfinished education of girls in kosovo, as well as the under-representation of women in key sectors of society. it might therefore be good if the content of the documents in which we assess the same issue, in the same country, at virtually the same time, corresponded as much as possible.
madam president, in the face of the traditional thinking and the stereotypes which still exist in the balkan countries, respect for women’s rights is a crucial sign of modernisation. as eu representatives, it is our obligation to contribute to the healthier and more modern societies which will one day become part of our european family. i am convinced that the eu could be more supportive in mainstreaming women’s rights in the region. i am somewhat hesitant, however, as to whether this should be done through positive discrimination and quotas for women, or rather by creating and helping to improve conditions for women’s entrepreneurship, their political engagement and the elimination of discrimination and stereotyping. as a politician, i often meet women from the region who have achieved high political positions – the president of kosovo, ministers for integration from albania and serbia, the former minister for integration of macedonia and important parliamentarians, for example. i can see that they are proud to hold these positions without the support of quotas. i would like to show my appreciation to marije cornelissen for her unselfish commitment on this important issue.
stable and credible pension systems give workers the certainty that they can accumulate enough funds during their productive years to ensure a dignified retirement. in addition to adverse demographic trends that weaken the ability to fund pensions on an ongoing basis, the six-year crisis suggests that recessions and bankruptcies of financial institutions are among the other risks to pension systems. therefore, pillar 2 pension funds investing in financial markets should be monitored more closely so that they do not jeopardise the future of their savers by failing to invest. i believe that to maintain public confidence in pension systems, it is necessary to provide correct and accurate information on the link between savings and the amount of the subsequent pension, so that savers can choose the appropriate savings combination among the available savings options in their countries, as they see fit.
the revenue from taxes levied by states on their citizens and legal entities is the main source of state expenditure. the indignation of decent people at the fact that the states add ever new and higher tax obligations to them while tolerating mechanisms that allow speculators to evade this obligation is therefore justified. i am glad that we are talking today about the fact that the union loses a trillion euros every year in tax evasion. i regret, however, that we are only pointing to tax havens in distant overseas. perhaps, commissioners, it would be necessary to look in the mirror. do we not have tax regulations in malta, cyprus, luxembourg or london similar to those in tax havens? is not our diverse national structure of tax mechanisms the greatest source of vat fraud? isn't the waiving of tax obligations to investors by our governments for decades also a fraud and a mockery to decent taxpayers?
in writing. let us look at the facts. the european union loses up to €1 trillion a year to tax fraud and evasion! this incredible figure costs us €2,000 per year for every single citizen of the european union. the average tax loss in europe now exceeds the total amount spent by member states on healthcare and is more than four times the amount spent on education in the eu! the tax revenue measure in its current form represents an alarming loss of revenue for public administration in the union and thus a major threat to the european union's social model, which is based on quality public services available to all our citizens! the loss of tax revenue continues to increase the deficit and debt levels of all member states, which is extremely damaging, especially in the current most difficult period of the crisis! however, as a result of tax fraud and tax evasion, all available resources to support public investment, growth and employment are being phased out. but what's striking about all of this is that we've accepted this state of affairs for decades. we need the strength of the social model! we need to ensure growth and social cohesion, these things are more important in these difficult times than ever before! i believe that effective and progressive taxation is of paramount importance in the context of the competences of public authorities. the citizens of the european union have their needs and expectations, and we have a duty to meet those expectations.
in writing. in the eu, it is estimated that up to €1 trillion is lost annually to tax fraud and tax evasion. however, there is research that says that the amount is much higher than 1 trillion eur per year! if we could stop these tax evasions, the total public debt of the eu countries would be paid off in only 8.8 years. interestingly, there is no relationship between the level of tax burden in a country and the level of tax evasion. recent studies have refuted the view that the higher the tax burden, the higher the tax evasion and tax avoidance. companies that use tax evasion as a business strategy gain an unfair competitive advantage over publicly traded companies that cannot use similar practices. this ultimately harms the competitiveness of the member states. tax fraud and tax evasion are depleting the resources needed to support the necessary public investment, growth and employment. our aim must therefore be to develop a common european strategy that all the member states will accept and implement. states must agree to harmonise their tax bases, to enforce measures to prevent the shifting of profits to tax havens and tax avoidance.
in writing. in the european union, it is estimated that up to eur 1 trillion is lost each year to tax fraud and tax evasion. this alarming size of the tax revenue gap represents a cost of approximately eur 2 000 per eu citizen per year. the average tax loss in europe today exceeds the total amount spent by member states on health and is more than four times the amount spent on education. all this has been happening for decades, in times of the greatest economic, financial and social crisis, when the automatic stabilisers of the welfare state to ensure growth and social cohesion are more important than ever. the current gap in tax revenues in europe therefore represents not only an alarming loss of public revenue but also a danger to the preservation of the eu's social model based on quality public services accessible to all. tax fraud and tax evasion therefore constitute a serious and multifaceted problem requiring a coordinated approach at national, eu and international level. i therefore consider it necessary for the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal which would provide clear criteria for the distinction between tax havens. at the same time, a blacklist of these tax havens should be drawn up by the end of next year and the necessary tools should be provided to block banking licenses for financial institutions involved in tax fraud.
in writing. − international air transport relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air service agreements. these include a 'destination clause' which allows a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend the authorisation or licence of an air carrier which has been designated by a member state but which is not majority owned or subject to effective control by that member state or its nationals. the council, by its decision of 5 june 2003, therefore authorised the commission to negotiate so-called horizontal agreements with the third countries concerned, replacing the traditional designation clause with an eu designation clause allowing all eu carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and to obtain non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and third countries. in this case, sri lanka has signed 15 bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which need to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a single agreement concluded on behalf of the union. the agreement was signed on 27 september 2012. in its decision of 26 november 2012, the council requested parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i consider it appropriate for the committee on transport and tourism to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation with 39 contracting parties from all over europe, including all eu member states except estonia. it plays a key role in the field of air traffic management (atm) in europe. in accordance with the single european sky legal framework, the commission designated eurocontrol as the single european sky performance review body in 2010 and as the network manager for air traffic management network functions in 2011. the aim of the proposed agreement is to strengthen and consolidate the cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol, which could thus support the eu in the implementation of the single european sky and related policies. i am convinced that the agreement will contribute to the realisation of the single european sky and therefore i consider it important that its conclusion be agreed.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as i believe that ensuring effective regulation and harmonisation at pan-european level in the field of civil aviation safety and environmental protection is very important also in the light of the current economic climate. i also agreed that developing other areas and establishing new forms and mechanisms of cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol can help to extend this policy beyond the eu and gradually achieve the application of the single european sky legal framework by all eurocontrol members as well. i welcome all steps, including this proposal, to strengthen and consolidate cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol. however, i expect that the general framework established will not only strengthen cooperation between the eu and the european aviation safety organisation, but also ensure synergy with the european aviation safety agency, which also plays an important role in aviation safety.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions are an important source of information on the history and legacy of the european union. it is therefore important to provide access to these archives to the public in order to make them accessible, to preserve information on the eu institutions and to promote research on the history of european integration. council regulation no 354/83 of 1 february 1983 requires the eu institutions to set up historical archives and make them available to the public as soon as documents reach 30 years of age. in 1984, the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed to store their historical archives at the european university institute (eui) in florence, and in december 1984 a special agreement on the conditions of storage was concluded between the european communities, represented by the commission, and the eui. the contract also provides that the italian government will provide the eui with archival space for an unlimited period and free of charge. considerable progress has been made in recent years in terms of financing, data protection and digitisation. in this context, the proposal clearly lays down the obligation to finance the eui from the general budget of the european union through contributions from the depositing institutions and states that the financial contributions will cover the costs of managing the archives but not the provision of buildings and premises, which will be financed by the italian government. there are grounds for believing that the plenary should give its consent to that proposal.
in writing. − the report submitted responds to a request for consultation by the council on a draft decision to adjust the date of the elections in which the next european elections to the european parliament should in principle take place, which, according to article 11 (2) of the act concerning the direct and general elections of the members of the european parliament, should be the period from thursday 5 june to sunday 8 june 2014, based on the date on which the first direct general elections were held. as the extended weekend over the easter holidays falls on the days on which elections would normally take place in most member states, the council considered that it would be better to hold the elections earlier, proposing the following date for the elections: from thursday 22 may to sunday 25 may 2014. in order to allow member states as much time as possible to take the measures required to hold the elections, it is necessary to decide on this new deadline as soon as possible. in order to allow member states as much time as possible to take the measures required to hold the elections, it is necessary and important that this new deadline be decided as soon as possible.
in writing. − at the sitting of 10 september 2012, the president announced, in accordance with rule 6 (3) of the rules of procedure, that he had received on 19 july 2012 a request from gabriele albertini to have his parliamentary immunity waived. in accordance with article 7 (3), he was heard by the committee on legal affairs on 17 december 2012. the member of parliament was summoned to appear before the milan court on the initiative of alfredo robled in relation to statements he made first in an interview with the italian daily il sole 24 ore on 26 october 2011 and subsequently in an interview published in the italian daily corriere della sera on 19 february 2012. the applicant is a judge of the milan court of appeal, who seeks compensation for the damage caused to his personal and professional reputation, honour and standing by several statements made in the two interviews concerning the derivatives proceedings. both interviews were given and published when gabriele albertini was a member of the european parliament, having been elected to that office in the 2004 and 2009 european parliament elections. the committee on legal affairs considers that the member did not act in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament when providing them. it therefore recommends that the european parliament not protect its parliamentary immunity.
in writing. − at the sitting of 14 january 2013, the president announced, in accordance with rule 6 (2) of the rules of procedure, that he had received a request from the greek authorities to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr spyros danellis. the chair referred the request to the committee on legal affairs in accordance with rule 6 (2). mr danellis is accused of negligence in that, in his previous capacity as mayor of hersonissos, he allegedly failed to take measures to close down a business operating in his municipality, despite the fact that the sanitary authorities had issued a decision requiring such measures to be taken. having considered the arguments and grounds for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, it is recommended that the european parliament waive the parliamentary immunity of mr spyros danellis.
in writing. − at the sitting of 6 february 2013, the president announced, in accordance with rule 6 (2) of the rules of procedure, that he had received a request from the greek authorities to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr spyros danellis. in accordance with rule 6 (2), the chair referred the request to the committee on legal affairs. spyros danellis is charged with falsely accusing a third party of committing an unlawful act with the intent of exposing the person concerned to criminal prosecution and with giving false testimony about a third party which could damage his reputation and good name, knowing full well that his testimony was false. the alleged false statement and accusation concerned the sale of olive and other fruit trees cut down on expropriated land to a contractor awarded a public contract to carry out construction work on a dam in the municipality of hersonissos in the administrative district of iraklion, whose mayor was spyros danellis. having considered the arguments for and against, it is recommended that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of mr spyros danellis.
in writing. − the takeover offers directive provides minimum guidelines to ensure transparency and legal certainty in the execution of takeover bids and to grant information rights to shareholders, employees and other interested parties. some member states are considering adapting or have already adapted their harmonised national takeover bid rules in order to increase transparency in the capital market and strengthen the rights of the target company and its stakeholders. member states were given until may 2006 to transpose the provisions of the directive into their national law. given the financial and economic developments of the last few years, a proper assessment of the application of the directive is difficult, if not impossible. the financial crisis that started in 2007 hit all european markets. despite a whole package of measures to stabilise and revive the economy, the crisis has deepened and europe is still mired in the crisis of capital markets and the economic and debt crisis. it is an unfortunate coincidence that the date of transposition of the directive coincides with the beginning of the crisis. it is therefore justified to seek to provide more relevant data on the basis of which it will be possible to determine not only the necessary amendments to the directive but also the specific harmonisation measures that are desirable to be adopted in the future.
in writing. − if you have the european union's industry has always been a driving force for job creation, growth and innovation in all regions of the european union. since the foundations of the european union were laid in 1952 with the creation of the european coal and steel community (ecsc), the european union has already been shaped by a long-standing close cooperation with eu member states in promoting industrial innovation. however, many regions in the european union are now facing problems due to the decline of many traditional industries, such as coal, steel, textiles or engineering, which contributed to the prosperity of many regions for several decades. many european regions depend on european funding in the form of support for the transformation and restructuring of old industrial areas in these regions. it is increasingly clear that, against the background of the financial and economic crisis, the high ambitions of the eu industrial policy and the eu 2020 strategy cannot be achieved through sectoral policies alone, but it is important to also benefit from support under cohesion policy measures. i consider it important to make efforts to influence related processes in such a way as to support future integrated territorial investments and policy implementation for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − europe has been a self-sufficient space for many years, where traditional industry has flourished. many industries have naturally disappeared or production has been moved from european industrial regions to other parts of the world. this left many regions in europe dependent on financial aid. there are areas in europe that have already managed to cope with a similar problem; their transformation and restructuring could be achieved precisely through funding from the european union. we should do the same with the regions referred to today. i attach the greatest importance to radical innovation, because it appears that the old industrial regions are making very little progress. a dramatic situation arises when a region 'locks in' its traditional sector. therefore, it is necessary to create opportunities for the arrival of foreign investors and to encourage the creation of new academic disciplines with research centres in new areas. the release of funds to support these parts of europe is of particular importance, especially in the context of the fight against the economic crisis. having created a monetary union, we must not forget that if one region is in a bad situation, the whole union has to deal with it.
in writing. − the industrial sector has always been the driving force of national economies. in many states we see neglected, run-down former engineering and steel industrial zones. the disappearance of production has led to higher unemployment. the rapporteur rightly emphasises the need to help the old industrial areas in the development of regional strategies. at the same time, however, it must be stressed that regional strategies must also include links with science and research, vocational schools and also with local authorities. this is necessary to ensure that investments are not only short-term but also to ensure continuity from training professionals to coordination with other sectors in the region. in restructuring industrial areas, which can be very costly, it is important that local and regional authorities in industrial areas seek to exploit synergies between public funding from national and eu funds and private investment.
in writing. − the deepwater horizon explosion on 20 april 2010 killed 11 men and caused an oil slick containing some 4.9 million barrels (780,000 m3) of crude oil. it took three months to close the well and another two months to complete the rescue well. the accident also prompted a review of eu policies: the european commission immediately started to assess the safety of offshore oil and gas production in european waters. it concluded that further steps should be prepared to ensure that best practices, regulatory regimes already in place in some eu member states, are disseminated across the eu through a clear modern framework at eu level. the proposal for a regulation on safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production, which the commission presented to parliament in october 2011, focuses on concrete measures that should redress any discrepancies and fragmentation between member states' practice and legislation in offshore oil and gas production. the proposal aims to respond to the increased risk by ensuring that the industry uses best practices across the union to manage serious threats by strengthening the union's preparedness and response capacity and clarifying the existing legal framework for liability and redress.
in writing. − the deepwater horizon explosion on 20 april 2010 killed 11 people and caused an oil slick containing some 780,000 m3 of oil. it took 3 months to close the well, and another 2 months to complete the rescue well and finally be declared "dead". investigators say the disaster was almost inevitable due to years of industry and government inaction and inadequate security. the accident prompted a review of our policies as well. the european commission immediately started to assess the safety of offshore oil and gas production in european waters. it concluded that further steps should be prepared to ensure that best practices, regulatory regimes already in place in several eu member states, are disseminated across the eu through a clear modern framework at union level. the proposal for a regulation on safety of offshore oil and gas exploration and production, which the commission presented to parliament in october 2011, focuses on concrete measures that should redress the differences and fragmentation between member states' offshore oil and gas exploration and production practices and legislation. i therefore take a very positive view of the fact that in the committee on industry, research and energy there is agreement on security issues across almost the entire political spectrum.
in writing. − oil and gas have been extracted from the seabed in europe since the 1970s. i am fully aware that the developed world needs vast amounts of oil and natural gas for power, heat, light, passenger and freight transportation, which can be extracted from new resources in the oceans and seas. on the other hand, we must also be aware that in the last 10 years alone, there have been five major platform accidents with serious environmental impacts, loss of life and indirect damage to the coastal and maritime sectors. i supported the report because i think that mining companies in different member states have different environmental, health and safety standards and that the legislation in place so far has not regulated all aspects of mining companies' activities that have an impact not only on the environment but also on the safety of people working on the platforms. although the report is of high quality and contains important measures, i call on all stakeholders to take safety, environmental conservation and protection and the rational use of natural resources as their main considerations when exploring, exploring and extracting oil and gas at sea.
renewable energy sources have recently become one of the key issues affecting the energy market. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question were necessary to achieve the objective of the union's energy policy. although renewables are the subject of much speculation and criticism because of their unreliability and lack of aesthetics, the market for them is nevertheless growing. i supported the report because i believe that the growth of renewable energy can ensure security of energy supply, energy efficiency, savings, job creation and help small and medium-sized enterprises. i expect renewable energy to become for the european union and its member states not only a great opportunity in the energy market, but also a challenge to increase energy independence and create new jobs. and in conclusion, i would like to say that in the vote on paragraph 20 in the second part i voted against by mistake.
in writing. − renewable energy allows us to diversify our energy supply. this increases our security of supply and improves european competitiveness, creating new sectors, jobs, economic growth and export opportunities, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. strong growth in renewable energy by 2030 could create more than 3 million jobs, including in smes. if europe maintains its leadership in renewable energy, our global competitiveness will also increase, as the 'clean technology' sector becomes increasingly important in the world. in 2007, the european union set an ambitious target of 20% renewable energy and 10% renewable energy in transport by 2020 and supported these objectives with a range of supporting policies. the renewable energy target is a key objective of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. these policies are delivering their first results at the beginning of 2012 and the eu is now well on track to achieve its objectives.
in writing. −our energy policy must always strike a balance between security of supply, competitiveness, economy and environmental sustainability. it is estimated that the eu is well on track to meet its target of obtaining 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020. the renewable energy and clean technology industries are a major driver of european competitiveness and have a high job creation potential. in order to integrate renewable energy sources, the internal market in electricity should be completed by 2014. the strengthening of consumer rights should also be taken into account, allowing independent households, communities and smes to produce energy. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company that is not subject to the notification requirement. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
based on the experience gained in previous enlargements, it is confirmed that the need to mainstream women's rights and gender equality issues throughout the enlargement process is one of the most important indicators of the level of development of any democratic society. i supported the report presented because it identifies specific shortcomings and requirements in terms of what has not yet been achieved and what is expected of each candidate country. once again, we have seen that the fact that a country adopts legislation does not mean that it is applied in practice. this is confirmed by a report which finds that the inhabitants of many accession countries are completely unaware of the existence of legislation and policies to promote gender equality and women's rights. the european parliament's interest in addressing the situation of women's rights in the acceding balkan countries is therefore appropriate and i expect the commission to continue to focus on the application of women's rights and gender equality in the context of the accession process of the western balkan countries.
europe is aging and dying. but some meps are still fighting for so-called reproductive rights. it promotes the right to end unborn human life and affordable hormonal contraception. instead of focusing on practical improvements in women's status, we're sending them to the gynecologist's waiting room. what women really need is the ability to balance work and family life with the freedom to prioritize family and child rearing. but we still don't appreciate motherhood. it's time to get rid of the ideology that calls a pregnant mother a worker. and until that happens, we should stop exporting our own short-sightedness. one example for all. i would expect criticism from a pharmaceutical company for kosovo not yet using contraception for all women, but not from meps. i am in favour of supporting the fundamental rights of women in the balkans, but i could not support this report.
in writing. − it is important that, in addition to economic, financial and political indicators, the observance of human rights is also considered as a priority for all candidate countries. within this framework, women's rights and equal opportunities are also of paramount importance and a good indicator of the human rights situation. the social, political and economic role of women should be recognised and their active participation and representation should be ensured to the widest possible extent. although there are areas within the union where equal opportunities are not fully realised, this issue should not be neglected in the accession negotiations either. it is essential that the western balkan countries ensure and promote gender equality in every possible way, as this is the only way to guarantee the healthy functioning of society and the economy in the long term. i particularly welcome the fact that the report addresses the role of women in peacebuilding. unsc resolution 1325 already draws attention to the fundamental role of women in efforts towards peace, stabilisation and reconciliation. i also think it is important that the fight against trafficking in human beings should be on the agenda of the accession negotiations, since 30% of the victims who enter the union come from this region and, as we know, the majority of victims are still women and girls. and here we have a shared responsibility, because the target countries are most often eu member states.
in writing. − the committee on women's rights and gender equality produced a previous report on women's rights and gender equality in the balkan accession countries in 2008. most of these countries have since moved on to join the eu. croatia is almost ready for accession, negotiations have begun with montenegro, serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have been granted candidate country status, and albania, bosnia and herzegovina and kosovo are working with varying success on the next steps of the accession process. the report aims to present countries with specific requirements for the adaptation of their legislation, policies, budgets and/or institutional frameworks to make it clear what is required of them in relation to the implementation of gender equality. for this reason, issues such as the deficiencies in women's healthcare systems and education aimed at eliminating gender stereotypes were not included in the scope of this draft report. the report was based on a study in which a large number of eu delegations, bodies and civil society organisations in the western balkan accession countries answered questions on the eu's demands on the future member states in the area of women's rights and gender equality, the mechanisms and tools in place to implement legislation and policies and their effectiveness in practice.
in writing. − it is sad that even in the 21st century it is necessary to state that in many places in europe women and girls still face discrimination. it is therefore essential that the relevant institutions take all possible steps to ensure that the rights of every individual do not exist on paper only, but are effectively enforceable. increased attention must be paid to marginalised minorities. steps to remedy this deplorable situation should be taken in the spirit of positive discrimination, in order to restore to these disadvantaged groups the status to which they have always been entitled. although i fully agree with many of the proposals in this report, i cannot in any way agree that the issue of the under-representation of women in public life, and possibly in certain jobs, should be tackled by introducing quotas. furthermore, i disagree with the approach the authors take to the question of contraception. as a doctor, i know that birth control has many negative effects on women's health that are not reported at all. for this reason, i cannot agree to its unilateral promotion without pointing out its risks. in addition, access to contraception is not a credible indicator of the elimination of discrimination against women.
in writing. − if you have in a democracy, the media play a vital public watchdog role, as they allow citizens to express their right to information, to control and to assess the actions and decisions of those who exercise power or influence, in particular on the occasion of consultations on elections. they can also play a role in shaping the agendas of public bodies by using their authority as information brokers and thus acting as public opinion shapers. free and independent media and the free exchange of information play a crucial role in the processes of democratic transformation in non-democratic regimes. the commission is asked to closely monitor the freedom and pluralism of the media in the acceding countries and to pay due attention to the role of free media in promoting democracy worldwide. the fundamental rights of citizens to freedom of expression and information can only be guaranteed through freedom and pluralism of the media, with journalists and the media able to exercise their right and duty to inform and report on events and decisions of public interest to citizens in an impartial and neutral manner.
in writing. − freedom of speech and expression, which includes freedom of the media, is one of the greatest achievements of human society and one of the fundamental pillars of the rule of law. for this reason, it must be protected, since it is precisely today that invisible pressures to limit it are mounting. on the other hand, although i fully share the resolution's aims, its text sometimes gives the impression that the authors of the text equate defamation with freedom of speech. the authors themselves point out in point x to the serious shortcomings in journalistic work due to the abandonment of control and double control of journalistic sources. i also consider slander to be a serious lack of journalistic work. while i do not agree that defamation should be classified as a criminal offence, there must be mechanisms in place to enable victims of defamation to defend themselves effectively. under no circumstances can gossip be accepted as a socially acceptable form of journalistic work.
in writing. − the importance of media freedom and pluralism arises in relation to a pluralistic and democratic political system. freedom and pluralism of the media are the result and guarantee of an effective and legitimate democratically elected government. the media are expected to provide a platform for freedom of expression accessible to all social groups. they should furthermore promote constructive public debate and appropriate political engagement of citizens aimed at raising the level of political awareness. however, all these demands and requirements for the media face a number of constraints, in many cases due to the nature of the media as such, but also arising from the social and political context. freedom and pluralism of the media must therefore be balanced against the requirements of respect for the fundamental human rights and civil liberties on which the union is founded. the report by renate weber therefore correctly identifies the points of support needed to maintain and possibly improve the position of the media. these include, for example, supporting the establishment of universal criteria for the appointment of heads of state media, ensuring their independence from state power. it also calls for the revision and amendment of the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd-2010/13/eu), in particular to extend its scope. it should include minimum standards for the protection and safeguarding of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, the right to information and transparency.
in writing. − free media, pluralism and independent journalism are essential elements for the proper functioning of any democracy and the rule of law. unfortunately, we still see violations of media freedom in some eu member states, as this report shows. although the report does not contain everything i expected it to contain, i supported it because i think it can become an important tool for the ep to discuss media freedom more broadly. i also find it very positive that the report on the media not only takes stock of the situation but also sets out specific subjects and measures that can greatly help free media and the maintenance of media pluralism in the future. i expect the commission to make every effort within its powers to ensure that the eu member states respect the charter of fundamental rights. while i see the protection of freedom of expression and information and freedom of the media as a duty of the member states, i believe that the eu will adopt legislative measures that protect pluralism as one of the fundamental pillars of the right to information and freedom of expression.
i supported the report submitted for two reasons. first, i share the rapporteur's view that sustainable pension systems must be based on a combination of the general and capitalisation pillars. the basis of pensions is solidarity between generations, but in an ageing europe this will soon no longer be the case. the second reason for my support is that the commission has called on the member states in its white paper to include the period of caring for another person in retirement. i consider this a very important moment, because it's the first bold step towards recognizing the value of women's informal work. i hope that others will follow, which will confirm that in europe our eyes have finally been opened.
2012 was the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. on this occasion, i organized and participated in several events for people of retirement age. among the most frequent questions were those on pensions, which are a priority for our older citizens in terms of ensuring a decent standard of living and economic independence. the demographic ageing curve poses a major challenge to pension systems across the european union. i supported the report because i think it highlights the current problems of pension systems and, importantly, it comes with concrete proposals to ensure adequately sustainable, secure european pension systems.
in writing. − the sustainability of pension systems in europe is becoming an increasingly pressing issue. demographic changes make it rational to adjust the retirement age to life expectancy in each member state. however, it is a sobering and at least equally serious problem that workers leave the labour market much earlier than the statutory retirement age. the creation of working conditions, the training of people over 50 is essential if we want to keep them in the labour market. the myth that early retirement creates more job opportunities for young people needs to be debunked, because research shows that where youth unemployment is high, older people are also high. the gender pension gap is also a problem to be solved. it is unacceptable that women are disadvantaged because they have children or that they use calculations that result in lower pensions. one of the key messages of the report is that pension systems need to be diversified, even if there is no uniform interpretation of the second or third pillars. the ability of the second pillar, the payment of pensions, to perform could also be jeopardised by the attempt to make pension funds subject to the capital requirements directive.
in writing. − pensions have come under pressure in every eu country. governments in the euro area are introducing austerity measures to comply with the stability and growth pact by balancing income and expenditure or are forced to make drastic cuts to reduce excessive deficits. moreover, the population of all member states is ageing. life expectancy varies across europe, but is increasing everywhere. also, a growing number of retired people are living longer and in better health. the proportion of the working population is decreasing. the birth rate is falling, young people are studying longer and entering the labour market later. solidarity between generations, which means that young people in work will cover the cost of pensions for older people, cannot be further escalated at any cost. the european agenda for adequate, safe and sustainable pensions for young and old appears to be the appropriate starting point for a discussion that can be followed by reforms through non-legally binding instruments and, where appropriate, legislation. overall, while recognising and maintaining the obligations of member states and social partners, there is now a need to build systems that contribute to greater labour market mobility and freedom of movement and provide solutions for the present and the future.
in writing. − experience has shown that no form of pension system is 100% effective, and i therefore believe that the state should allow all three pillars to exist in parallel, complementing each other and allowing the citizen to have a choice and to participate actively in the decision-making process on the construction of his pension. i would like to draw attention to the problem of discrimination against women, which unfortunately also exists in this area. we still face the situation that women have a lower financial valuation, which results in a lower pension. similarly, they are penalized for motherhood, as they often interrupt their careers to care for their families. the pension system cannot be set up to punish women for choosing to become mothers, as low fertility is one of the roots of today's unhappy demographic situation. furthermore, i would like to point out that the problem of loss of pension rights, to which the rapporteur draws attention in her explanatory report, is clearly not due to a lack of legislation but mainly to the incorrect application of existing legislation by national public authorities, who are unable to apply existing legislation or the case law of the court of justice to a specific situation, which often results in the non-payment of pension rights through the fault of the public administration.
the ultimate objective of the measures to establish a banking union is to ensure the stability of the single currency, the euro. the forthcoming changes also include the conferral of new powers on the european central bank, which should take over the supervision of euro area financial institutions from july 2014. the new powers will thus also allow the european central bank to decide on the closure and liquidation of a problematic financial institution anywhere in the euro area. in addition to conducting an independent monetary policy, the ecb will also be involved in major economic decisions, and i therefore propose to subject this area of supervisory policy to the supervision of the european parliament. i am not sure that this very mechanism of political involvement of the european parliament in the activities of the european central bank will not be a problem for the functioning of the european central bank as an independent institution. while the intention to better control the work of financial institutions in the euro area is justified, we need to model very sensitively the institutions and mechanisms for exercising this control. in the end, i think we should work on a system that oversees the good management of financial institutions and, when necessary and when problems arise, allows for a certain degree of solidarity between banks, but not solidarity between taxpayers and the financial sector.
in writing. since the start of the banking crisis, the euro area has not only seen a weakening of the stability of the financial system, but also a significant erosion of confidence in banks and the euro. while the establishment of banking supervisors has helped to improve cooperation between national supervisors and to create a single set of rules for eu financial services, the euro area economy continues to be mired in recession and unemployment rates are breaking new records. the discussion on this subject alone shows that any negotiations relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions and involving specific tasks for the ecb are not at all straightforward and therefore require due attention. the confidence of the banking sector can only be restored if common standards are respected and a single supervisory mechanism with direct supervision of banks and cross-border banking markets is put in place. i expect the ecb to work very closely with the european supervisors and to ensure convergence and consistency of supervisory practices.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like first of all to express my gratitude to our co-rapporteurs for their excellent and successful work. this piece of legislation is intended to be the last one, completing the so-called ‘victims package’, and is the sister legislation to the already existing criminal law epo. i hope these two pieces of legislation can guarantee the security of victims while ensuring they enjoy their right to free movement. protection of victims in this legislation is related first of all to violence against women and children which, unfortunately, is an evergreen topic. even if the victim of violence holds a protection order, at this moment she or he can feel safe only when staying in her or his home country. it is quite a big restriction, particularly if we take into consideration the fact that the free movement of people is one of the basic values and principles of the union. if the victim of violence wanted to start all over again in another country, the perpetrator could find her or him, and her or his physical and psychological integrity or liberty would be at risk again. therefore, this regulation is a missing piece of legislation. it allows for the mutual recognition of protection measures which are based on civil law rather than criminal law. i would like to ask my colleagues to support this proposal. i would also like to encourage the member states to transpose this instrument as soon as possible and completely. i am grateful to the commission for its promise to monitor this legislation strongly. i believe that by simplifying the recognition of protection orders, the lives of victims of violence can be protected throughout europe.
for the efd group. experience from everyday life has shown us that the implementation of protection measures for victims of violent crime under the european protection order is faced with problems, especially in countries where this issue is addressed by civil or administrative law. the initiative of the european commission to respond promptly to the findings of legal loopholes in the application of the european protection order and to submit a proposal for a regulation that essentially addresses this issue is therefore to be welcomed. the combined application of both civil and criminal law instruments will allow persons granted protection to move freely throughout the union. it is therefore hoped that the new legislation will help to improve the mobility and migration of such persons and that it will solve the problem that has arisen.
the european union is a community of sovereign states which have formed a coordinated political and economic grouping by treaty. the measures proposed by the commission and the parliament in relation to european monetary union should therefore respect this fundamental premise and not deprive national parliaments and governments of the member states of the freedom to determine their economic and social policies. the next step towards fiscal or economic union, as proposed by the french president, for example, cannot be achieved without making changes to the treaty of lisbon, which means that our citizens would also have to agree to and accept such a concept. however, our citizens' confidence in the european project is clearly declining and more and more citizens feel that their governments and parliaments are more competent to solve their problems. the commission and parliament's approach to centralising decision-making does not seem to be in line with the will of the citizens, and it might be better to look for a solution based on well-coordinated cooperation between member states rather than leading us towards a transfer union.
madam president, parliament is now voting on consent to the eu-canada agreement on customs cooperation with respect to matters related to supply chain security. the proposed agreement builds on and expands the preceding agreements of 1998 on mutual assistance in customs matters establishing a legal basis for eu-canada customs cooperation on supply chain security and risk management. in particular it opens the door to mutual recognition agreements on customs security, reinforces the customs-related aspects for securing the logistics chain on international trade including container security, and facilitates legitimate trade. the agreement has no budgetary implications for the union budget; it will certainly improve our trade relations with canada, and it is complementary and probably helpful to the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, negotiations for which i hope will be concluded very soon.
we had the opportunity to see during yesterday's debate that the problem of tax evasion and fraud is a problem for all the countries of the european union. we must therefore be firm and not tolerant in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. if we want to promote growth, we cannot make up for the deficit by taxing more entrepreneurs and smes. the scissors of high unemployment continue to open, especially among young people. education and health care are underfunded. i see the search for resources in the prevention of a huge tax evasion, or in the prevention of tax fraud. i therefore expect the commission and the council to take swift action to tackle this problem, because we are losing billions of euros in tax evasion, which, when eliminated, not only ensures social harmony but is also very successful in promoting growth. that is why i supported the report and the motion for a resolution, as well as the amendments.
in writing. − tax havens and tax avoidance are a major political issue today. it is estimated that up to eur 1 trillion of public finances is lost each year as a result of unfair tax schemes. this alarming sum represents a cost of approximately eur 2000 per year, per capita for each european citizen. the average amount lost in tax evasion in europe today exceeds the total amount spent by member states on healthcare, and is also more than four times the amount spent on education within the member states of the european union. in the current crisis, more than 26 million people are unable to find work, thousands lose their savings and are forced to face difficult living conditions. europe must strive to take the necessary measures to build on the current progress in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. i believe it is imperative to stand up for social justice. it is also very important to work towards a stricter regulatory approach to avoid the risk of active circumvention and thus of such large-scale tax evasion or financial losses.
in writing. − coordination at european level is essential, as it is true that each chain is only as strong as its weakest link, and the loss of public revenue is alarming. on the other hand, the fiscal sovereignty of the state must be fully respected, which implies the possibility for the state to organise its own tax system, including the setting of a lower tax burden. moreover, member states cannot punish conduct and the subsequent creation of business structures which in practice result in non-payment of tax if they themselves have provided for that purpose by vague or excessively vague legislation enabling the taxable person to act in that way. it is unrealistic to expect a taxpayer to voluntarily comply with something that the law does not require. i believe that the most effective way to prevent undesirable behaviour by taxpayers is not to punish them but to fill the gaps in both domestic legislation and bilateral tax treaties that de facto legalise such behaviour.
in writing. − all member states are now faced with the problem that public budgets spend more than they receive. it is right that on the one hand we are looking for ways of using the budget more efficiently. but at the same time, you have to think about the revenue side. tax evasion and avoidance are not the only problems, but also tax avoidance, which exploits loopholes in existing legislation and a lack of pan-european and international cooperation. the total tax loss is estimated to be around eur 2 000 per eu citizen per year. i support preserving the tax sovereignty of eu member states, but at the same time i agree that we need to start tackling the problem of tax havens. the first step is a proposed eu-wide definition of tax havens, which should be followed by the establishment of a blacklist of tax havens. companies that violate eu tax rules should be excluded from public procurement. as taxation is not an eu competence, the responsibility for combating tax fraud lies primarily with the member states.
in writing. − the recent debt crisis has given rise to a number of new problems in the european union, which require a proper adjustment of tax policies in the short, medium and long term. some countries have already made these adjustments, but others are still waiting. it is essential to stress that tax policy remains a matter for national authorities and that it is therefore necessary to respect the different tax systems of the member states, while removing as soon as possible the obstacles to the internal market and the uncertainty and misunderstandings resulting from legal gaps. while fiscal discipline and structural reforms are essential to restore confidence in fiscal policy and reduce public debt, it is also justified to prioritise fiscal measures aimed at growth and consumption taxes over labour taxes, as they appear to be more appropriate in the long term to support economic growth and employment. as the issues of double taxation and tax evasion remain a serious problem and lead to significant budgetary losses in the european union, i consider it important and justified to give this problem adequate attention.
in writing. − tax policy remains the national competence of each member state, but appropriate effective coordination of tax rules at european level can bring more transparency to tax policies and stability to budgets. at a time when each member state is struggling to balance its budget, tax policy must be the determining factor in mitigating the impact on employers, but at the same time it must be a source of growth and development for the economy. tax collection must be made more efficient, but at the same time the refund of tax overpayments must be made within the statutory deadlines, so that the state does not become a liquidator of enterprises. i supported the report and i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to create, on the basis of a thorough analysis, a pan-european information system to ensure greater transparency and to serve to monitor the different tax structures and to inform each other in order to prevent various tax fraud and evasion.
four years ago, the leaders of the european union agreed to include the czech republic in the exception to the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. however, as the rapporteur notes, this derogation does not derogate from the binding provisions of the charter. it's a waiver of participation. it does not amend the charter. the text of the protocol does not alter the legal situation which would have existed in the absence of the protocol. however, the very existence of the protocol has given rise to legal uncertainty and political confusion. in this respect, it has an adverse impact not only on the united kingdom, poland or potentially the czech republic, but on all eu countries. we did not vote today on whether or not the czech republic can join the exception to the application of the charter. parliament decided whether a convention should be convened in such a situation. i voted in favour because i don't think it's necessary to convene a convention.
in writing. − the charter of fundamental rights of the european union was drawn up by a convention which met from 17 december 1999 to 2 october 2000 and in which representatives of the european parliament, the member states, national parliaments and the commission took part. the charter was subsequently promulgated on 7 december 2000 and the text was adopted in strasbourg on 12 december 2007. the second convention ran from 22 february 2002 to 18 july 2003 and aimed to draft a treaty establishing a constitution for europe, the substantial part of which was incorporated into the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009. both conventions were convened to address the main issues concerning the constitutional order of the union, including the adoption of a binding text establishing binding rights and principles recognised by the union. it is therefore not necessary to convene a convention to examine a proposal to extend to the czech republic protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom, since the possible effect of that proposal would be limited.
in writing. − the government of the czech republic is seeking its country's accession to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom. all three states most concerned by this discussion approached the question of the charter from different angles. the uk has sought to limit the possibility that the charter would give the eu a new reason to legislate in certain areas, namely labour law, thereby going beyond its framework. poland, on the other hand, wanted the charter to be free of restrictions on its right to decide on issues such as public morality, family law, abortion, gay rights, etc. the possibility of withdrawing from the protocol is currently being discussed in poland. the czech republic, on the instructions of its president, has adopted a rather eurosceptic stance. during the negotiations on the lisbon treaty, it reached its own categorical declaration no 53, in which it expressed its concern about the charter's impact on the principle of subsidiarity, the allocation of powers, respect for national constitutions and international agreements.
in writing. − the commission proposal responds to the need for a comprehensive european legal framework that will provide recognition and the highest possible level of protection to all victims throughout the union. the proposal for a regulation complements the european protection order directive, which ensures mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters. the combined application of both instruments (criminal and civil) will allow persons who have been granted a protection order to move freely and safely within the eu as provided for in article 3 of the treaty on european union and will ultimately lead to the strengthening and development of the area of freedom, security and justice in the union. in accordance with the procedures resulting from the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, rule 51 of parliament's rules of procedure allows the two committees to draw up reports, acting jointly. the preparation of this report drew on the impetus of the discussions of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, as well as on the cooperation between the two rapporteurs. the final report presented reflects the results of the compromise agreement reached in the negotiations with the council during the cypriot and irish presidencies.
in writing. − the european union has successfully established a system of mutual recognition of judgments in civil and commercial matters under the brussels i regulation. this step has made a significant contribution to strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice. on the other hand, full completion of this area is not possible without further partial steps, including the introduction of mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. these measures are intended to enhance the rapid and effective protection of persons in need at any given moment, and the rapid action of the authorities concerned is a necessary condition for the effectiveness of the protection provided. moreover, the introduction of mutual recognition of protection measures will make a significant contribution to the protection of women and children, who are often the most vulnerable groups in the population. my only comment is that it would be a shame to limit the provision of special training to only those professionals who are likely to come into contact with victims of gender-based violence. every victim is a victim and deserves adequate assistance. the motive for the danger is irrelevant in this respect.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters will provide the highest possible protection to all victims throughout the eu. it is important to ensure that a person who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose that protection when he moves to another member state. a multilingual certificate should ensure this. this would ensure not only the rapid and simple recognition of safeguard measures but also their rapid and simple enforcement. in order to make protected persons better aware of their rights, it is necessary for member states to include information on free movement, protection measures and the uniform certificate in their education and awareness-raising campaigns. the rapporteurs also praised the work of civil society, in particular ngos and other voluntary organisations providing expert support to protected persons. protected persons should receive information and assistance in an intelligible form and in a language they understand, taking into account the needs of the protected person. i supported the ep's legislative resolution.
in writing. − the regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters, adopted in 2002, responds to the need to harmonise the application of the european protection order directive. this regulation, unlike the directive, will apply directly in all member states and will also provide the necessary protection for victims of crime when travelling for a short period or moving to another eu member state. the new rules, which will enter into force on 1 january 2015 after approval by the eu council, will simplify the system for filing protection applications. this will help to alleviate the situation of women and children, who are the most frequent victims of violent crime. the introduction of a standard multilingual form should reduce translation costs and avoid the additional costs incurred by a protected person in connection with his or her movement within the eu.
in writing. − the customs relations between the european union and canada are based on the 1998 agreement on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters (cmaa). in 2005, canada indicated its interest in working more closely with the eu to ensure security throughout the supply chain and manage risks. the draft customs cooperation agreement, as far as supply chain security issues are concerned, which the commission has been discussing since may 2011, builds on the 1998 cmaa and extends it on the basis of this option provided for therein. the new agreement aims to strengthen customs aspects to ensure the logistics chain of international trade, including container security, while facilitating legitimate trade. it provides the legal basis for enhanced customs cooperation between the eu and canada on matters relating to risk standards, security controls, minimum standards for risk management techniques, information and data exchange, strategic partnerships on cargo control, as well as cooperation in multilateral fora such as the world customs organization. it will also build on, inter alia, the key elements of the world customs organisation's safe system of standards for the security and facilitation of global trade. the consent of the european parliament to its conclusion is justified and important.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for his work in informing the members of the european parliament of the draft legislative resolution. canada is one of the european union's oldest and closest partners. this partnership started back in the 1950s and today, at the beginning of the 21st century, we should not only cultivate good relations but also continue economic cooperation at a higher level. the 1998 cmaa is an important point in our economic cooperation. it is our task to create the conditions for trade between the union and canada to remain as simple as possible and for the rules to be transparent, as this will prevent illegality and increase the security of the chain. for the reasons set out above, i agree with the agreement and express my belief that it will help in the efforts to increase the security of supply chains worldwide.
in writing. − the european banking authority was established in 2011 to coordinate the work of national regulatory authorities and ensure the uniform application of eu rules. but the supervision of banks itself remained primarily in the hands of the national regulatory authorities. the european banking authority also provides expert advice to the eu institutions, has conducted a so-called stress test for banking and oversees the current recapitalisation performance of eu banks. the proposed banking union will change the way banks in the euro area are supervised, as a single supervisory mechanism will be established within the european central bank.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis has brought europe's banking system to the brink of collapse. the integrity of the single currency and the single market is threatened by the fragmentation of the financial sector. the integration of the banking sector now needs to be stepped up in order to strengthen european unity, restore financial stability and lay the foundations for economic recovery. in order to preserve financial stability in europe and to enhance the positive effects of market integration on growth and prosperity, the integration of supervisory responsibilities should therefore be strengthened.
in writing. − in view of the ongoing crisis and its consequences, i welcome the proposal for a regulation conferring special powers on the european central bank concerning the prudential supervision of credit institutions. i personally welcome the choice of article 127 (6) tfeu as the legal basis for the adoption of this act, although i am concerned about the possibility of extending the scope of the regulation to countries outside the euro area. article 127 (6) must be read in the context of the treaty as a whole and also in the context of the case-law of the court of justice in luxembourg. for this reason, it is necessary to take account not only of the principle of sincere cooperation, which is binding not only on the member states but also on the european institutions themselves, which implies that the european union must necessarily respect the principle of subsidiarity. article 282 (4) states, inter alia, that the powers of the member states and their central banks whose currency is not the euro are preserved. while i am aware of the need for uniform control not only in view of the single market but also for the very effectiveness of this regulation, i would venture to express my doubts as to whether article 127 (6) can also be used as a legal basis for acts which will also be addressed to non-euro area states.
in writing. − the transfer of powers from the member states to the eu in the field of taxation supervision must be accompanied by a strengthening of responsibility and control. the new eu banking supervision rules, which are a response to the failure of the banking sector, will allow the european central bank to supervise the largest banks in the euro area directly and to participate in the supervision of other banks. however, today's vote on these rules was not yet final, as negotiations are still ongoing with the european central bank on the details of its responsibility as a supervisor. a balance needs to be struck between powers and responsibilities in the area of banking supervision. the european central bank (ecb), as a supervisory authority, must be subject to stricter requirements in terms of openness, accountability and control.
in writing. − the report amends the european commission's proposal for a recast of directive 2007/23/ec on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. the existing directive 2007/23/ec lays down the safety requirements to be met by pyrotechnic articles in order to be made available on the eu market. the new legislative framework was adopted to address the shortcomings of the union's harmonisation legislation in order to complete the single market with fair competition and safe products. the inconsistent implementation and enforcement of existing union harmonised legislation in the member states, as well as the complexity of the regulation, have made it increasingly difficult for economic operators and authorities to interpret and apply the legislation properly, leading to unfair market conditions and the placing on the market of dangerous products. the so-called product package provides an overall framework for simplifying product legislation with a view to harmonising the rules and making them more comprehensible for economic operators as well as market surveillance authorities. the amendments made to the provisions of this directive concern: the definitions, the obligations of economic operators, the presumption of conformity based on harmonised standards, the declaration of conformity, the ce marking, the notified bodies, the procedure relating to the safeguard clause and the conformity assessment procedures.
in writing. − the legislator has responded flexibly to market needs and the new legislative framework (nlr) addresses the shortcomings of the previous legislation that practice has pointed out. the new legislation will benefit not only economic operators but also ordinary consumers. last but not least, it is another step towards completing the single european market. i consider the main contribution of the nrp to be the unification and simplification of legislation. this simplification will help operators to understand existing legislation, which will lead to its correct application and to improvements in their production processes. moreover, market surveillance authorities will have an easier task in monitoring compliance and will be better equipped to stop the import of dangerous pyrotechnics from third countries. last but not least, the correct application of the legislation will automatically lead to increased protection of the final consumer and increased confidence in the ce marking, since only products that comply with the requirements of the european union can be marked with it.
in writing. − unfair market conditions, unequal treatment of non-compliant products or placing dangerous products on the market. these are just some of the shortcomings highlighted in the report. i supported the report because i expect that the amendments to the current directive will remedy these shortcomings. i also expect that the introduction of the new legislative framework will not be a matter of theory but will become an integral part of existing product legislation. i welcome all the commission's efforts to improve and harmonise the legislation in force, which should guarantee the free movement of pyrotechnic articles in the internal market. i also want to draw attention to the safety and protection of vulnerable consumers, especially those for whom pyrotechnic products are not intended for professional use. i expect that all measures, amendments and additions which present a risk to the health and safety of persons will not only be incorporated into the directive but will become part of the legislation of the union and its member states.
in writing. − if you have pursuant to article 33 of the audiovisual media services directive (avms directive), the commission is to submit a report on the application of this directive to the european parliament, the council and the european economic and social committee on a regular basis. the avms directive aims , within the meaning of the right to freedom of expression and information enshrined in article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to ensure the free movement of audiovisual media services as an instrument of the internal market, while ensuring the protection of important public interest objectives. it sets minimum requirements to ensure a level playing field and allows the free movement of audiovisual media services across europe. in some cases, the avms directive harmonises certain concepts (e.g. advertising spots), but in other cases it does not affect the member states' competence to lay down specific requirements taking into account national circumstances and traditions (e.g. content harmful to minors). overall, the european regulatory framework for audiovisual media services serves citizens and businesses well. the current need is to monitor market developments and new business models and to ensure that the regulatory framework continues to provide the right conditions for growth and the achievement of public interest objectives.
in writing. − the constant development of technologies and the possibilities for the dissemination of audiovisual content are creating new market conditions for audiovisual media services across the eu. today, we can already see that, in addition to traditional television broadcasts, audiovisual content is also offered via the internet or mobile communications. although the audiovisual media services directive has been implemented differently in the member states and has been published with considerable delay, i supported the report as it not only contains a qualitative assessment of all the provisions but also presents challenges for the future which are linked to the dynamic progress in media services. i expect that, in the light of the expansion of technological possibilities and the growing importance of new forms of audiovisual media services, the commission will review the existing directives and, in its next report, focus on the issue of digital disparities. i expect more action from the member states in relation to disabled people, who should be given greater access to cultural events in accessible formats.
i want to express my deep concern at the humanitarian crisis that continues in syria and is spreading throughout the region. the situation of thousands of people is alarming, and neighbouring countries are already struggling to cope. in syria itself, there has been a huge internal displacement, mainly of women and children, and the number of refugees has increased enormously. the involvement and assistance of the international community, including the european union, must therefore be dramatically increased. i fear that this problem will escalate and destabilise not only the region but also some eu member states in the near future. i support the establishment of a safe zone along the turkish-syrian border, as well as the creation of humanitarian corridors within syria itself. i fear that even after the civil war has ended, the return of refugees will be accompanied by many problems. many who have left will find it difficult to return, and preparations must be made for that fact.
this has not been said here, but i want to welcome and applaud the initiatives of commissioner fülh and high representative ashton to support reforms in bosnia and herzegovina. but our discussions about this state are increasingly frustrating. it is more than sad that the european ambitions of a country and its citizens are so often paralysed by the inability of local politicians to accept agreements that touch on the fundamental principles of the functioning of the state. if the eu is to bear responsibility for bosnia's future and development, local politicians must bear clear responsibility for its current state. i'm talking about basic human rights. how is it that four years after the judgment of the european court of human rights and in the sejdic and finci case, it is still not possible to enshrine them in the treaty? it's the right of every citizen to run for public office. this is the minimum requirement for any country applying to join the european union. i am talking about the ambitions of bosnia and herzegovina to become part of the european union. the latest progress report says little or no progress. the obligation of the representatives of bosnia and herzegovina to speak with a clear and united voice on european integration is a fundamental prerequisite for any future progress. bosnia needs reforms, not for brussels and the eu, but for the citizens of this country. the eu can help with reforms, but the responsibility lies with local politicians.
bosnia and herzegovina is the country with the most complex internal political structure in the balkans. the ethnic and religious division of the population greatly complicates the creation of any nationwide bodies and structures. the relatively recent memory of the brutal internal war conflicts is the basis for the high level of mistrust between the leaders of the different population groups. however, the successful consolidation of political relations in the region's key states, croatia and serbia, also shows the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina that a genuine and peaceful solution to problems, free from prejudice and hostility, can be a good way for the development of this country. i am therefore convinced that we must continue to pursue the policy of integration of the balkans and strive to win the confidence of the population for this journey. our assistance and support for the building of a civil society in bosnia and herzegovina has no alternative, even if it is difficult and complex, and more complicated than in neighbouring countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly congratulations to mr howitt on his good work and his engagement, which has resulted in a very good report. in today’s resolution, parliament calls on the council to open accession negotiations with the country without further delay. why is this important? the accession process allows us to anchor the country in the process of intensive reforms and modernisation. the process guarantees the implementation of european standards. through this process it would also be easier to address issues which have been of concern to some member states. it is through this process that we can help macedonia to reform its judiciary, its public administration or to improve the situation of people belonging to minorities. the commission, in line with its commitment to the integration process, confirms that macedonia is ready to start accession negotiations. the eu needs to show that it stands behind this commitment; it also needs to show that there is the european way to deal with problematic questions. only such a position would make us a credible partner. i agree that macedonia is facing many problems. that is why i also call on political parties in macedonia to contribute to the implementation of the 1 march agreement, especially on establishing a commission of inquiry into the events of 24 december, and for the joint support – by all parties – of euro-atlantic integration. the country also needs to keep working on improving inter-ethnic relations and relations with some of its neighbours. finally, i hope that progress achieved by the country and its long-term commitment to the integration process will be positively assessed by the council, and that macedonia will receive a date for starting the negotiations.
in writing. – for four years now, the council has refused to invite macedonia to enter the next stage of the european integration process by opening accession negotiations with the country, despite successive positive recommendations from the european commission. we all know the reason: the name issue. regardless of the substance of this particular dispute, the eu’s inability to overcome it betrays a serious problem at the heart of our enlargement policy. this is not to say that macedonia is without problems. far from it: the country experienced a serious crisis of democratic institutions in late 2012 and early 2013. much still remains to be done to improve the rule of law, state capacity, media freedoms, the integrity of the judiciary, inter-ethnic relations and so forth. in this respect, however, macedonia does not differ so much from other western balkan states. the paradox, of course, is that the country could have moved a lot faster on reforms had its accession process not been blocked by bilateral disputes. i hope the council will not make the same mistake again in 2013.
the formalisation of the rules for trade and economic cooperation between the european union and major economic partners creates a more stable and clearly defined framework for our producers to cooperate with the entities of the partner country. we know that trade between the union and the united states amounts to nearly eur 2 billion a day. therefore, a well-constructed trade agreement can be expected to provide tangible support to the economies of both partners. in a period of economic stagnation in the union, the new transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement can be a significant stimulus to the recovery of growth. it is clear to all of us that reaching an agreement to eliminate or minimise tariffs, open up the services sector and protect investments will not be easy. even more important will be the alignment of regulatory restrictions in the automotive, pharmaceutical and chemical industries. however, these efforts can be offset by the significant economic benefits of this agreement.
transporting pets is now a part of the daily lives of our citizens. people who care for companion animals commonly travel with them to visit friends or to vacation around the world. however, the prevalence of animal-borne diseases varies from region to region and therefore care should be taken to protect these animals from infection and spread of the disease. experience with the application of directive 998/2003 has confirmed to us the importance of good rules governing the migration of animals. the new legislation follows on from this directive and the experience of its application forms the basis for the legislation under discussion on the rules for the movement of pet animals. the amendments are aimed at clarifying the regulation, more practically distinguishing between commercial and non-commercial movements of animals, and at clarifying the structure of identification documents. we know that the new legislation will deliver and that it will help to bring about the changes that were expected.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2008 establishing the community customs code (modernised customs code) entered into force on 24 june 2008, but in accordance with article 188 (2) thereof it applies after the date of application of its implementing provisions and at the latest on 24 june 2013. regulation (ec) no 450/2008 is intended to replace council regulation (eec) no 2913/92 of 12 october 1992 establishing the community customs code. on 20 february 2012, the commission presented to the european parliament and the council a proposal for a regulation establishing the union customs code, in the form of a recast of regulation (ec) no 450/2008, with a view to replacing it before the final date of its application. however, the ordinary legislative procedure cannot be completed in time for the adoption of that proposed regulation and its entry into force before the deadline of 24 june 2013. in order to avoid serious difficulties with union customs rules and to allow the legislature adequate time to complete the process of adopting the union customs code, the final date of application of regulation (ec) no 450/2008, as provided for in the second subparagraph of article 188 (2) of that regulation, should be postponed. the new date of application deemed appropriate for this purpose is 1 november 2013.
in writing. − since 1971, the european union has granted non-reciprocal trade preferences to developing countries, whereby exporters from these countries pay lower duties on some or all goods sold to the eu. they thus gain important access to the eu market, which contributes to the growth of their economy. this system is known as the generalised system of preferences (gsp). in 1997, the union of myanmar was temporarily withdrawn from gsp tariff preferences by council regulation (ec) no 552/97 in view of the common and widespread practice of forced labour, as confirmed by the commission of inquiry of the international labour organisation (ilo) in a special procedure. however, regulation no 552/97 also states that that temporary withdrawal of access will be lifted when the commission submits a report containing evidence that the procedures which led to that withdrawal have been eliminated. since 2011, the union of myanmar has made significant efforts to increase openness and reform, including in the area of forced labour. the european commission has concluded that the infringement can no longer be considered 'serious and systematic' and that the tariff preferences under the current gsp regulation should therefore be reintroduced. however, progress in the union of myanmar remains very fragile. i therefore consider it important to make the necessary efforts so that the proposed measures contribute to the creation of sustainable peace and positive development.
in writing. − i consider the gsp to be an effective instrument to help safeguard fundamental human and labour rights, reduce poverty and promote sustainable development in developing countries. i supported the report because, as the european commission notes, the reasons for the breach of the principles laid down in ilo convention no 29 have passed and are no longer considered to be 'serious and systematic'. i welcomed the fact that the relevant ilo monitoring bodies recognised the progress made in myanmar/burma, which has created scope for re-establishing access to the gsp and that the continued maintenance of the current measures would no longer be beneficial. i also regard the lifting of the restrictions as positive because the gsp can become a key instrument for this country to integrate into world trade, which can ultimately contribute to its economic development and growth. as forced labour in the union of myanmar has not yet been fully eliminated, i expect the commission to continue to monitor developments in myanmar/burma and, in the event of any shortcomings, to return to the withdrawal of access to customs preferences.
in writing. − if you have with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the union acquired exclusive competence to conclude international agreements on investment protection. investment protection agreements generally include an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism allowing a third-country investor to assert a claim against the state in which he has made an investment. the settlement of disputes between the investor and the state may lead to judgments awarding monetary compensation. in addition, any such case will inevitably incur significant costs for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings as well as the costs associated with defence in the case. where the union has international liability for the treatment provided, it is expected under international law to pay any amount awarded in adverse judgments and to pay the costs of any litigation. however, where appropriate, a negative ruling may result either from the treatment granted by the union itself or from the treatment granted by a member state. i consider it justified that, in accordance with union law and without prejudice to the international liability of the union, the financial responsibility should be shared between the union and the member state responsible for the treatment provided.
in writing. − while negotiations to resolve the financial liability associated with investor-state dispute settlement tribunals are not at all straightforward, i support the report because i believe that the provisions of the regulation submitted by the commission clearly define the scope, the concepts and, in particular, the financial liability arising from a dispute under the agreement. while it is possible to assume that some discrepancies in the allocation of financial responsibility between the union and the member states will continue to exist, it is essential that alternative solutions are found in the event of dispute settlement that ensure financial compensation for the investor irrespective of the decision on the allocation of financial responsibility. i agree that in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of the proposed regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission, which could also improve the communication between the member states and the commission itself. i am convinced that if the commission conducts much more intensive discussions with the member states, in many cases not only a simplified procedure can be achieved, but in particular an agreement on the allocation of financial responsibility can be reached.
in writing. − the movement of pet animals has been regulated since 2003 by regulation (ec) no 998/2003 and 17 subsequent amendments. over the other period, the environment for the movement of pet animals has changed: the commission and the member states have, inter alia, carried out anti-rabies campaigns, which have allowed rabies to be considered to be overcome in several parts of the union, although there is a need for constant vigilance. rabies or its absence was the main, but not the only, reason for maintaining the special transitional arrangements for the movement of animals within the territory of certain member states (articles 6, 8 and 16 of regulation no 998/2003). the expiry of the additional transitional arrangements under article 4 (1) (tattooing or transponder marking) was another appropriate reason for the revision of the existing regulation no 998/2003. the primary intention is to make it easier for pet owners to travel within the union or to third countries, while maintaining a high level of safety in terms of possible health risks to the public or animals. in order to make the commission's proposal clearer, the wording and the order of some articles have been changed. however, the substance of the provision in question is preserved.
in writing. − moving pets always carries a risk of abuse and transporting animals for resale is often disguised as travelling with your pet. the average person owns no more than three animals, so limiting the number of animals per passenger to five seems reasonable and objective. on the other hand, if a person is travelling with a number of animals exceeding that number, he should be able to prove that the transport is not of a commercial nature. in any event, i am of the opinion that even in exceptional situations, such as travelling with a larger number of animals for exhibition purposes, the number of animals per person must be unconditionally limited, since each animal transported additionally imposes an increased burden on the owner and reduces the chances of the animal being properly cared for. last but not least, the safety and comfort of other passengers is also at stake.
in writing. − three categories of changes are proposed, most of them being of a technical nature. first, it is a question of replacing references to regulation (ec) no 998/2003 by references to a new regulation which is being negotiated in parallel with the proposal. secondly, in article 10, in comparison with the previous wording, it is proposed to include a reference to regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport and related operations and amending directives 64/432/eec and 93/119/ec and regulation (ec) no 1255/97, which also applies to dogs, cats and ferrets. thirdly, and as regards the content, the only relevant amendment concerns the time limit within which animals must be subjected to a clinical examination before their movement by one of the veterinarians authorised by the competent authority to confirm that the animals are fit for the intended transport. the proposal is based on the recommendation of the world organisation for animal health and consists in extending this period from the current 24 hours to 48 hours. for practical reasons, as well as in the light of the signals received from the industry, it is appropriate to agree to the proposed amendments.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report and the legislative amendments proposed by the commission. i am in favour of taking all the measures that are ultimately necessary not only to achieve the single market but whose main objective is to simplify the rules. the extension of the deadline from 24 hours to two days is a good example of how the european union can make life easier for citizens, as travelling with a pet and obtaining the necessary documents can be a very stressful affair. the overall improvement of the situation is not possible without certain partial steps and although the proposed changes may seem to be of only marginal importance, in fact they are another important step in the process of european integration.
in writing. − the commission's vision for a broad and genuine economic and monetary union, adopted on 28 november 2012, included proposals for short-, medium- and long-term measures to strengthen cooperation and integration in the financial, fiscal, economic and political fields. the measures included 'contractual arrangements' in combination with a solidarity mechanism to support national structural reforms aimed at competitiveness and growth. if these reforms were not implemented, their effects would extend to other member states. however, they would have to be implemented by the member state concerned, and in particular with considerable difficulty. the aim is to help member states experiencing difficulties that may affect the euro area as a whole to adopt the necessary reforms, through a convergence and competitiveness instrument, which is a combination of contractual arrangements and a financial support mechanism, sooner than they would be able to do so without this assistance. on the basis of the commission's concept and the report of the three presidents and the president of the ecb on a genuine economic and monetary union, the european council agreed on a roadmap for completing emu at its meeting in december 2012. until the european council in june 2013, work will continue in the following areas: coordination of national reforms, the social dimension of emu, including social dialogue, feasibility and operation of mutually agreed treaties and the solidarity mechanism.
in writing. − the recovery of assets for the countries of the arab spring in transition is a moral imperative and a highly political issue in the eu's relations with its southern neighbours. this is also a significant economic issue for the southern neighbourhood countries concerned given the potential that these assets represent when returned and used in a transparent and effective manner as a contribution to their economic recovery. the recovery of assets has an important preventive effect, as it sends a strong signal to those involved in corruption that they are not impunity and is therefore a major contributing factor to the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in the countries of the arab spring in the process of transformation. the active involvement of financial centres and the participation and contribution of civil society organisations in both requesting and requested states are key to successful asset recovery initiatives. i am convinced that, in addition to the economic importance, the return of property stolen by former dictators and their regimes in the countries of the arab spring in the process of transformation is also a moral duty and a highly political issue, as it symbolises the restoration of justice and accountability in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law, as well as the political commitment and credibility of the eu, and therefore constitutes a key element of the union's partnership with its southern neighbours, with particular regard to egypt, libya and tunisia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. one and a half million people syrian refugees can't leave anyone alone. it's a great tragedy that has no peaceful end yet. in every war, the children, women, the elderly, and the powerless suffer the most. the refugees are also the largest group of people in this category. they suffer, they survive, but they don't see their future. although the eu is the largest donor of humanitarian aid, the eu and its representatives must do more to stop the violence and reprisals against the syrian people. the member states must also swiftly deliver on the pledges made at the donor conference in kuwait in january this year, while ensuring that all pledged funds reach the intended recipients. refugees in neighbouring countries have no other option but to secure their livelihoods, their savings, if any, that they could take from their own country are running out very quickly and they are dependent on aid as their situation worsens with each passing day of the ongoing armed conflict.
in writing. − i supported the resolution presented to parliament because the situation of syrian refugees is truly critical. i regret, however, that this parliament has not once again found the courage to clearly identify some of the causes and consequences of this serious humanitarian crisis. what we see in syria is not a struggle for freedom and democracy, but a sectarian war between sunni and shiite muslims. and those who suffer most in this conflict are the syrian christians. unfortunately, the resolution adopted is blind to these facts. the term "religious minorities" appears only once, and only in general. we've reached a point where secularism is robbing us of the ability to see the world as it is. but without this capability, we cannot effectively help either the syrian refugees or any of the nations of the middle east.
in writing. − the recovery of assets for the countries of the arab spring in transition is a moral imperative and a highly political issue in the eu's relations with its southern neighbours. this is also a significant economic issue for the southern neighbourhood countries concerned given the potential that these assets represent when returned and used in a transparent and effective manner as a contribution to their economic recovery. the recovery of assets has an important preventive effect, as it sends a strong signal to those involved in corruption that they are not impunity and is therefore a major contributing factor to the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in the countries of the arab spring in the process of transformation. the recovery of assets also has a significant impact in addressing the endemic problem of money laundering and strengthening the stability of the international financial system. i think it is appropriate that the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean should address the issue of asset recovery for the countries of the arab spring in the process of transformation, with a view to involving the members of the national parliaments of the countries on both sides of the mediterranean in this process.
in writing. − the european union has repeatedly reaffirmed its commitment to accept the countries of the western balkans, including bosnia and herzegovina, as members. it remains firmly committed to supporting a sovereign and united bosnia and herzegovina with prospects for eu membership. this perspective is one of the factors that most unites the people of a country. however, in order to accelerate the country's progress towards eu membership and achieve tangible results for the benefit of all citizens, it is necessary to ensure that there are functioning institutions and clear coordination mechanisms at all levels and that leading political representatives make firm and consistent commitments. constitutional reform remains the key reform needed to transform bosnia and herzegovina into an effective and fully functioning democracy. progress is also necessary and important in the key areas of state-building, public administration, the judiciary, the application of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the approximation to eu standards. last but not least, i also consider it extremely important in this context to make efforts to cooperate with the other countries of the region in a spirit of good neighbourliness, as this too is a necessary prerequisite for peaceful coexistence and reconciliation in bosnia and herzegovina and the western balkans.
in writing. − in the integration process, all candidate and potential candidate countries should be treated on their merits. eu accession is of paramount importance for the country's long-term stability and good inter-ethnic relations. for the fourth year in a row, the european council decided not to open accession negotiations with this country despite a positive recommendation from the commission. this further delay adds to the growing frustration of macedonian public opinion over the stalemate of the eu integration process and risks deepening domestic problems and internal tensions. bilateral issues should not constitute an obstacle to the formal opening of accession negotiations, although they should be resolved before the accession process is completed. i consider it important that they are dealt with in a constructive spirit, taking into account the eu's overall interests and values.
in writing. − in 2005, macedonia was granted eu candidate status. one of the commission's latest reports on the country is the progress report on macedonia. this document demonstrates that the country has made progress in all the areas assessed, from free movement of goods to financial and budgetary policies. macedonia is a country with a turbulent past, a rich culture and a unique tradition. i believe that membership of this country in the european union will be to the benefit of both parties. i am convinced that macedonia, in cooperation with us, will reach its full potential and the level of the countries of the european union.
in writing. − as i have done on many occasions in the past, i have supported the european parliament's resolution on the opening of accession negotiations with macedonia. the country has long since met all the political requirements of the eu, but greece's refusal is a brake on the process. the name of the country must be settled once and for all, but this cannot be done without greece showing at least a minimum of effort and helpfulness. the european union must not fail in relation to macedonia. i am glad that most of my colleagues in this parliament share this view.
in writing. − the eu and the us are the two main global traders and investors, together producing almost half of the world's gdp and accounting for a third of world trade. the union and the united states of america markets are closely interlinked the volume of trade in goods and services between them reaches almost eur 2 billion on average each day, supporting millions of jobs in both economies. eu-us investment is a real driver of transatlantic relations, with a total value of bilateral investment of over eur 2,394 billion in 2011. the eu and the us share common values and have comparable legal systems and high, albeit different, standards of labour, consumer and environmental protection. the eu believes that developing and strengthening the multilateral system is a key objective. this does not mean, however, that bilateral agreements cannot go beyond wto commitments and complement multilateral rules, as both regional agreements and free trade agreements lead to increased harmonisation of standards and wider liberalisation, which is beneficial to the multilateral trading system.
in writing. − the human rights situation in burma/myanmar remains fragile despite the efforts and measures taken by the government of president thein sein. nevertheless, the ongoing changes create significant opportunities for the development of eu-burma/myanmar relations, facilitate the reform process and contribute to economic, political and social development. the commission proposed that access to the generalised tariff preferences be restored for burma/myanmar, considering that there is no longer a breach of the agreement relating to forced labour. companies operating in fragile states, such as burma/myanmar, face an increased risk of causing or contributing to human rights abuses. therefore, special measures are necessary to avoid this risk in relation to investments in burma/myanmar. european companies, together with their subcontractors, can play a key role in promoting and spreading social and labour standards worldwide.
in writing. − macro-regional cooperation can enhance spatial integration and increase the effectiveness of eu-supported policies and partnerships between public administrations, local authorities, as well as other institutions and civil society organisations. both current and new macro-regional strategies should be implemented on a voluntary basis, but with the use of existing experience and best practices. the macro-regional strategy for the alps, which should be comparable to the strategies adopted by the eu for the baltic and danube regions, will bring the possibility of giving the alps a new dimension and greater importance in the eu context in terms of better access to finance. the macro-regional strategy is an effective way of addressing common challenges relating to population change, infrastructure, environmental issues, energy supply, tourism and transport facilities in the alpine region. the geographical scope of the alpine strategy should be limited to the territory of the alpine convention countries, since the extension of the macro-region to a larger territory would risk the dominance of the non-alpine region with its metropolises and industrial centres over the current alpine region in terms of population and economic power. i believe that the sustainable development of the alps is important and should be considered as one of the main objectives of the macro-regional strategy.
in writing. − the owner of the bangladeshi company rana plaza and eight other people were detained as the building itself was built illegally, resulting not only in huge structural problems, but the workers were forced to continue working despite their safety concerns. conditions in these textile factories are often poor, with little regard for labour rights recognized under international conventions, and no respect for health and safety at work. the european market is the largest export destination for bangladeshi clothing and textile products. there are more than 5,000 textile factories in bangladesh, employing some 3.5 million people. bangladesh is the world's second largest exporter of clothing, after china. several large western firms have already signed a legally binding agreement with local trade unions to ensure basic safety standards in several thousand garment factories in bangladesh. the move came after widespread criticism from international companies working with local clothing manufacturers.
in writing. - the tragedy in bangladesh has highlighted an often-overlooked reality that we in the western world often tend to turn a blind eye to. sadly, western companies exploit the misery and poor living conditions of the people. unfortunately, public international law does not allow for liability for such conduct, as multinational corporations are not subject to it. moreover, multinationals operate in the third world mainly through subsidiaries, that is, through separate legal entities. consequently, it is legally impossible to derive consequences against the parent company and liability against the subsidiary can only be derived in the state in which it is established. since enforcement is extremely low in these countries, the guilty often go unpunished. sadly, this uncontrolled desire for profit often escapes the control of civil society, which remains blind to the problems of others. one solution i see is to boycott the products of those companies that profit from human misery, and i believe that spreading revenge is one of the european parliament's main tasks. for these reasons, i am fully in favour of parliament adopting a specific resolution on this problem.
for the efd group. the situation surrounding the judicial persecution of opposition leaders in rwanda confirms that our expectations of the transformation of african countries into democratic states of law are perhaps premature. diverse organized communities with tribal traditions of coexistence become easy prey for local adventurers with dictatorial tendencies to govern the community. all the measures taken by the kagame administration against political opponents indicate that he has no intention of accepting any decision of the electorate that would deprive him and his cronies of control over the country. so, in the traditional way of all dictators, he eliminates and intimidates all potential political rivals. sending observers to observe the appeal process with victoire ingabire is one of the few effective ways we can make the regime of paul kagame aware that the civilized world already knows the mechanisms of primitive intimidation of people by self-appointed dictators and will not tolerate them in africa either. at the same time, we may have to start monitoring the administration of the country more closely by the current administration of rwanda, because what is happening there suggests that the development is not good.
many everyday examples prove that national borders and jurisdictional differences are not a major obstacle to organized crime. the revelation of the massive money laundering by liberty reserve of costa rica, which used a complex internet system to launder and circulate six billion dollars in virtual currency, obtained from credit card fraud, ponzi schemes and child pornography, has shown us how efficiently and quickly organized crime can exploit all the benefits of today's technology. this first-choice underworld bank had conducted more than 55 million transactions since 2006 and had about a million clients worldwide, of which about 20% were from the united states. our efforts to improve international cooperation in the fight against organised crime are therefore justified and, in the interests of protecting honest people, i think we must be much more active in this area.
organised crime is taking on a transnational dimension and is becoming a global economic actor. this phenomenon is not just the domain of developing countries, but also of the countries that are at the top of their economies. i support the report because it contains concrete proposals and measures which could lead to more effective action against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, in the interests of the security, stability and economic development of all states. i fully realize that the process of uncovering a crime is not easy. i therefore particularly welcome the proposals to strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. while organised crime cannot be strictly categorised, i expect the european union and the member states to continue to identify new threats to organised crime and to put in place models that will be effective tools to combat them, in the interests of coherent and coordinated cooperation.
in writing. organized crime has now become a global economic actor that gains huge illegal competitive advantages and fraudulently infects the legal economy. organized crime, corruption and money laundering are separate, yet often there is an objective link between them. the european union can meet this challenge. new and sophisticated forms of organised crime, corruption and money laundering require renewed political commitment at the highest level and new social and law enforcement paradigms. to prepare the draft report, the european parliament held 13 sittings and 9 public hearings, with almost 90 experts consulted. the three working papers drawn up by the rapporteur provide guidance for the development of more effective eu and national legislation to tackle the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it proposed promoting a more functional, flexible and less corrupt public administration, more responsible politics, a faster and more credible criminal justice system, a healthier entrepreneurial culture, a more transparent banking system and professional sectoral system, and appropriate measures against money laundering. our priority is to implement the proposals as soon as possible. new technologies and the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty can hopefully contribute to this objective.
in writing. a person spends about half his life at work, where he is exposed to many factors. effects which affect and present a risk to humans in the working environment include, but are not limited to, physical factors. i support the report because i believe that the measures proposed can prevent occupational accidents, occupational diseases or other health damage or illness. at a time when overall morbidity is increasing, incapacity for work is being prolonged and productivity is falling, i consider it positive from the point of view of the report that limit values for exposure to time-varying electromagnetic and electromagnetic fields are being established, as are action values and guide values for time-varying and static fields. although the requirements laid down in the proposal relate only to the adverse effects of short-term exposure to electromagnetic fields on the human body and do not concern the effects due to their long-term action or the risks or hazards that may arise from contact with an uninsulated driver, i expect the commission and the member states to do everything possible to eliminate these risks as well.
i am very proud that once again this year, the last week of may, we had a special week dedicated to youth in the european union. i am very pleased that, thanks to the cooperation with the european youth forum and the organisation of young meps of this eu parliament 40, we were able to put together a really very nice action right in front of the european parliament buildings, which included a very special campaign of several political parties in the european union, major european political parties and young people in europe, called the league of young voters. we are exactly one year away from the 2014 elections and we need to think about how to attract young people to come and vote and to understand that the european union is here for them too. as many as 67% of young people in the european union do not believe that the european union is good for them and are pessimistic and negative about it. so we think that this league of young voters, this collaboration with young people in europe can really help us as politicians to understand what young people are worried about, because we can really think about what young people are worried about, and we can have our own opinion on it, but it's really important that we listen to these young people.
when addressing social housing legislation in the union, we must be aware that we are talking about very different groups of potential users of these housing units. a second-year architecture student will tell you that dealing with a simple basic housing unit for a lonely homeless person or a poor pensioner is different from dealing with housing for an unemployed woman with dependent children or housing for a large roma family. therefore, any attempts at social inclusion through social housing must reflect specific criteria based on the elementary needs of integrated users. a more precise characterisation of the different groups of people who rely on housing assistance will enable us to better formulate the rules for the provision of assistance. i therefore think that we should start by defining the groups of union citizens for whom we want to open the way to social housing and then select appropriate programmes for which we will prepare appropriate legislation.
i think we need not debate today whether or not 50% of the population and its value should be used in the european union during a crisis. of course i did. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs ronzulli, who has been a very good rapporteur. i was a shadow reporter for our socialist and democratic faction. the cooperation was very good. i am pleased that this report was adopted by a very large consensus within our committee. what do i think is the most important point to mention about this report? we all agreed that when we talk about the labour and educational mobility of women or of all workers in general within the european union, the most important thing is, of course, information, so that people know what their rights are, what their obligations are, what their options are. of course, we often encounter that people who want to migrate, who want to take advantage of mobility, do not have the language skills. for example, some, such as women, often follow their husbands or partners abroad. perhaps more information is needed about the right to different language skills that they can acquire in different courses that they can acquire abroad. what's really important to say about women's educational mobility is that we have 60 percent female college graduates, but we need to encourage more of them to go into those other positions, so that we have more women in the leadership of colleges and other educational institutions.
i am glad that the european commission is finally admitting that its project for a european e-tolling service is failing so far. the wide range of mechanisms used by member states to collect road usage charges, from motorway signs to microwave toll gates to satellite electronic tolling, is difficult to harmonise into a coherent european system with transparent prices. the future is likely to be dominated by satellite toll systems that can more accurately measure the actual use of the road network by users and thus the relative contribution to pollution. given that the use of this technology may interfere with citizens' rights to privacy, it will be better to pursue a comprehensive system for transit freight in the interim. only time will tell if our citizens will be willing to tolerate monitoring of their movements even when travelling in private cars.
foods intended for special nutritional purposes are different from foods intended for normal consumption. under current legislation, foodstuffs must bear, in addition to the trade name, a reference to the particular nutritional purpose and the group of consumers for whom the product is intended. as this legislation has been in place for more than 30 years, changes in the food market and legislation require a comprehensive review. we are causing serious problems for stakeholders and for the supervisory authorities, because we have developed too broad categories in today's changed market and legal environment. the classification of a number of products in a particular food category has been called into question. progress is being made in simplifying and clarifying the rules, taking into account legislative developments in related areas. we need to develop categories that are clearly defined and that are essential for certain vulnerable groups. we need to create a uniform legal framework to create a clear situation for stakeholders and member states. the three lists currently in force in the three different legal instruments should be combined into a single common list. to make the free movement of food and fair competition possible, we need to address the differences between national laws on food for different nutritional purposes. we must also ensure that our citizens have food security and a high level of protection of public health.
for the efd group. i confess to being disgusted by the leaked information about the secret prism program of the national security agency of the united states of america, which since 2007 has been collecting and evaluating electronic communications and information about our citizens that pass through the facilities of american companies. this action by the us administration is an example of a violation of the right of european citizens to the protection of their personal data. that's why today we must respond decisively to the misuse of new technologies by american authorities, to the spying on the private lives of our citizens. illegal surveillance of private communications of citizens is a crime in both europe and the united states. therefore, us companies that have allowed the us security agency access to the private communications of our citizens have committed violations of european union law and it is our duty to investigate the extent of this intrusion into the privacy of our citizens and to take the same measures and sanctions against these companies as we take against tax evaders or other violators of union law from abroad. the paranoid behaviour of our american partners during this period is truly reprehensible.
in writing. − the main objective of the plan is to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in the geographical areas of the kattegat, the north sea, the west of scotland and the irish sea on the basis of maximum sustainable yield. to achieve this objective, the plan lays down rules for the fixing of the annual fishing opportunities for this stock in terms of total allowable catches and maximum allowable fishing effort. the science is evolving and improving and in this context i consider it necessary to update the plan to include the necessary provisions to take account of the latest scientific knowledge. the proposed amendments are those which will allow the effective functioning of the plan within the new decision-making framework in accordance with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − at the sitting of 4 february 2013, the president announced that he had received a request from the prosecutor general's office of the republic of poland to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr jacek olgierd kurski. at the same time, the chair referred the request to the committee on legal affairs. mr kurski is charged with a traffic offence by turning left in violation of horizontal traffic sign b-21 ('no left turn') and crossing a double continuous longitudinal line in violation of vertical traffic sign p-4 ('double continuous longitudinal line') and committing the offence. the accusation has no connection with the office of jacek olgierd kursky as a member of the european parliament. on the basis of the facts as established and after considering the arguments for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, it is recommended that the european parliament waive the parliamentary immunity of mr jacek olgierd kursky.
in writing. − at the sitting of 10 september 2012, the president announced that he had received a letter from the office of the prosecutor general of the republic of poland requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ms handzliková. the chairman also referred the request to the committee on legal affairs. ms handzlik is accused of having applied to the european parliament for reimbursement of the costs of a language course on the basis of the relevant provisions, even though she did not attend that course. given the circumstances in which the case of małgorzata handzliková was opened, and taking into account that the amount in question is low and the state and origin of the evidence uncertain, serious doubts arose in relation to the procedure. having considered the arguments for and against the waiver of the parliamentarian's immunity, it is recommended that the european parliament should not waive the parliamentary immunity of ms handzlik.
in writing. − at the meeting on 23 may 2013, the president announced that he had received a request from the competent german authorities to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr alvar in connection with proceedings at the cologne prosecutor's office. the chair referred the request to the committee on legal affairs. alexander alvaro was given the opportunity to be questioned. he brought to the attention of the committee the statement of his lawyer, in which he stated, inter alia, that he was renouncing the possibility of appearing in person before the committee and being heard on account of his state of health. the office of the attorney general intends to open an investigation against alexander alvaro because it believes there are sufficient facts to indicate that alexander alvaro should be prosecuted for manslaughter and for causing bodily harm through negligence. on the basis of the considerations set out in the previous recital, the committee on legal affairs recommends that the european parliament should waive the immunity of mr alvar.
in writing. − the european commission published a proposal for a european consumer agenda on 22 may 2012 following the eu consumer policy strategy 2007 2013. the proposal presented consists of a set of consumer initiatives for the period 2014-2020. the main focus should be on food security, health, energy, financial and digital products. the programme is also presented during the final phase of the digital single market, which requires online consumer protection, legal certainty, guarantees of consumer rights and efficient and reliable delivery services in the transport of goods and services. i believe that a consumer agenda is desirable to reduce inequalities between consumers in europe and contribute to a low-carbon economy. corrective and support tools for consumer organisations are of great importance. in addition, the current financial crisis complicates consumer decisions. therefore, it is necessary to make efficient, transparent, reliable and comparable information available to consumers.
in writing. − consumers are key market actors who represent demand for goods and services. i supported the report because i see the development of a consumer policy strategy as one of the ways to make a greater contribution to the europe 2020 objective of increasing consumer protection and removing obstacles and barriers to business-to-consumer relations. i also find it very important that the report comes with proposals and measures that create opportunities for a higher level of consumer protection and that will allow them to shop with more confidence and more choice at lower prices in any eu country. i expect the results of this report to be translated more intensively into cooperation between european, national and local authorities and consumer associations. i also expect the commission to take legal action against those member states which violate consumer policy legislation and do not implement it in accordance with the eu legislation in force. i am aware, and the report acknowledges, that we have a very low level of awareness among our consumers of their rights. i therefore welcome all initiatives concerning consumer education, which aim to teach people the skills and knowledge necessary for life in a consumer society.
in writing. − in a genuine european area of justice, individuals and businesses should not be deterred from exercising their rights by the complexity of legal and administrative systems. all citizens should have the same easy access to the courts and authorities of any member state as in their own country. in civil and commercial matters, access to justice should not be impeded by the costs associated with the cross-border nature of the dispute. as early as 1999, the european council called on the council and the commission to establish minimum standards ensuring an adequate level of legal aid in crossborder civil disputes throughout the union. on the basis of a commission proposal, the council adopted a directive on improving access to justice in cross-border disputes by establishing minimum common rules on legal aid in such disputes. this directive has entered into force on 30 november 2004. i am pleased that according to the commission's other findings all member states are generally applying this directive successfully.
in writing. − council directive 2003/8/ec on improving access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing minimum common rules on legal aid in such disputes is a very important piece of legislation for european citizens, as it aims to ensure that the most deprived sections of society have access to justice in other member states, for example when exercising the right to free movement or benefiting from the internal market. this directive concerns only civil and commercial matters and does not cover disputes in the field of criminal or public law. the main problem with this directive remains that not much is known about it. according to the commission's findings, only 12% of citizens are aware that crossborder legal aid exists. if citizens are not aware of the possibility of requesting cross-border legal aid, they are unlikely to exercise this right. therefore, in this situation, i consider it necessary to take measures to ensure greater awareness of cross-border legal aid, not only among lay people, but especially among lawyers.
in writing. − even before the adoption of the directive, the provision of legal aid in crossborder civil matters was guaranteed only in some member states. i am very pleased that, after a certain period of time, we can say that, in general, all the member states have accepted the directive. what is less impressive is that not all member states apply this directive or apply it only in individual provisions. although the main responsibility for the correct transposition and application of the directive remains with the member states, i welcome the report presented, as i believe it comes with measures that can help to address the identified shortcomings in the area of legal aid in cross-border civil and commercial disputes. however, i consider the most serious aspect of this report to be the lack of awareness in the area of crossborder legal aid, where only 12% of citizens know that this form of aid exists. i expect that we will also make use of the european year of citizens in implementing this directive, which can support the process of removing further obstacles and solutions that stand in the way of citizens enjoying their rights fully in cross-border civil and commercial disputes.
in writing. − the placing on the market of goods that infringe intellectual property rights is a major detriment to law-abiding right holders, producers and traders. this is misleading to consumers and in certain cases could endanger their health and safety. i believe that, if possible, such goods should not be placed on the market at all and at the same time measures should be taken to tackle this illegal activity without restricting legitimate trade. i believe that certain improvements to the legal framework are necessary to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights and to ensure adequate legal clarity, taking into account developments in the economic, commercial and legal fields. customs authorities should be able to control goods that are or should be subject to customs supervision in the customs territory of the union for the purpose of enforcing intellectual property rights. enforcing intellectual property rights at the border, wherever the goods are.
in writing. − the free movement of safe and healthy food is an essential aspect of the internal market and contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens and to their social and economic interests. the directive of the european parliament and of the council on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses lays down general rules on the composition and preparation of such foodstuffs, which are specifically designed to meet the particular nutritional requirements of the persons for whom they are intended. most of the provisions contained in this directive date back thirty years and therefore appear to be administrative provisions to be reviewed. that directive also requires a general notification procedure at national level for foods that are identified by food business operators as falling within the definition of 'food for particular nutritional purposes' and for which no specific provisions are laid down in union legislation, before they are placed on the union market, in order to facilitate the effective monitoring of such foods by member states. difficulties may arise from different interpretations of the definition of food for particular nutritional purposes, which appear to be open to different interpretations by the national authorities. in this context, i therefore consider it justified to revise the scope of the directive in order to ensure a more effective and harmonised implementation of union legislation.
in writing. − it is very gratifying that by reviewing the existing legislation we will increase the effectiveness of the protection of special groups of the population such as diabetics, cardiovascular patients, but especially children. in promoting healthy eating, it is very important that the customer can choose from the goods on offer a product that will not harm him but will improve his quality of life. the obesity epidemic is a serious threat to children today. therefore, clear and specific labelling will contribute to better information for vulnerable groups, especially children and people who have to follow the instructions of their doctor. i think it is very important that manufacturers take a serious approach to ensuring that the declared foodstuffs have a composition, including the content. i believe this will be a challenge for them to keep the shelves of these stores open.
in writing. − if you have under the treaty, the council may adopt, by means of directives, minimum requirements to promote improvements, in particular, in the working environment, in order to guarantee a higher level of protection of the health and safety of workers. however, such directives should not impose administrative, financial or legal constraints which would impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union provides that every worker has the right to working conditions which take account of his or her health, safety and dignity. following the entry into force of directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004 on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields), serious concerns were expressed by stakeholders, in particular from the medical community, regarding the possible impact of the implementation of that directive on the use of medical procedures based on medical imaging. concerns were also expressed about the impact of the directive on certain industrial activities. the commission carefully examined the arguments and the directive in question was subsequently amended accordingly.
in writing. − following the decision adopted by eu fisheries ministers on 18 december 2012, the long-term plan for cod may potentially become the most controversial of this series of initiatives, as it is a matter covered by the ordinary legislative procedure. mixed fisheries plans represent a new approach and the scientific tools needed to develop, evaluate and assess the impact of these plans are not yet fully developed. it is currently expected that these tools will be available later this year. this will then allow the process of elaboration and impact assessment to begin in a series of meetings throughout 2013 involving scientists and stakeholders. as mixed fisheries plans will involve trade-offs between fishing opportunities for different stocks caught in the same fishery, it is likely that further consultations will be necessary to finalise the north sea plan. this means that a mixed fisheries plan for the north sea will not be possible to submit before 2014. the development of mixed fisheries plans for other areas where cod stocks covered by the current cod stock plan occur will take longer, further reinforcing the need to amend the current cod stock plan to address the most urgent needs as a transitional solution.
in writing. − if you have the impact of organised crime on the economy, society and local authorities is increasingly evident at different levels. organized crime has become a global economic actor that profits enormously from illegal competition and fraudulently harms the legal economy. money laundering is often a typical activity of organised crime and is also closely linked to corruption, fraud and tax evasion. this means that although organised crime, corruption and money laundering are different phenomena, they are often characterised by objective interrelationships. i believe that efforts to create a legal framework that would strike at the economic core of organised crime and strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level are justified. it is important to seek to promote more responsible politics, swifter and more credible justice, a healthier business environment, a more transparent banking system and professions, as well as appropriate anti-money laundering measures, in order to prevent crime from continuing to pay off at the expense of the legal economy and honest businesses and citizens.
in writing. - globalization affects all spheres of contemporary life, and crime and the underworld are no exception. organised crime is therefore no longer a phenomenon limited to a historical and geographical area: the traditional mafia-type criminal organisations that exist in some regions of southern europe have gradually expanded their sphere of influence, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies, and have formed alliances with criminal groups from other countries, including from other continents, and share markets and spheres of influence in many criminal activities and profit opportunities. their impact on the economy, society and local authorities is therefore increasingly being studied at different levels. organized crime has become a global economic actor that profits enormously from illegal competition and fraudulently harms the legal economy. while organised crime, corruption and money laundering are different phenomena, they are often characterised by common relationships. i consider that the prevention of such activities is of the utmost importance in order to ensure the safety and freedom of our citizens. the rapporteur has already produced three extensive working papers and would now like to offer guidance on more effective european and national legislation in these areas.
although the right to housing is enshrined in many of the member states' constitutions, housing is one of the most extreme examples of poverty and social exclusion. in every country, there is a certain group of the population who cannot or only with difficulty manage to secure a decent housing on their own. the seriousness of the problem is also demonstrated by the fact that some 25 million europeans are currently living in social housing. when we talk about those living in social housing, we must not forget the population groups living in unhealthy and unsuitable conditions that need to be addressed. i supported the report because it highlights the importance and seriousness of the issues under discussion and, ultimately, because it suggests ways of tackling social disparities, deepening unemployment and deepening poverty and social exclusion. i am fully aware that views on social housing vary widely across member states. i therefore welcome the proposal to clarify the concept of social housing.
in writing. − if you have it is estimated that 25 million europeans live in social housing. all member states except greece have social housing, the extent of which varies considerably from one country to another; the difference is mainly between the western member states and the eastern ones, which have recently joined the eu. social housing needs also differ within member states between urban and rural areas, between city centres and outlying areas. the provision of social housing is one of the ways in which public authorities can respond to housing market failures in order to ensure universal access to decent housing at affordable prices. the inability of the market to meet all housing needs affects not only people who simply have no access to housing, but also those who live in unhealthy or unsuitable conditions or in overcrowded spaces. from a social point of view, it is essential to invest in social housing. europe is experiencing a serious, long-term housing crisis. it's possible that it's going to get deeper. at the same time, unemployment is skyrocketing, 120 million europeans live in or are at risk of poverty, and the private housing market is becoming less responsive to the growing demand from the poorest households across europe. it is the adequate supply of social housing that can help to balance cyclical developments in the real estate market and reduce phenomena such as real estate bubbles destabilising the economy.
in writing. − the aim of the rapporteur, ms delli, is to show the extent to which social housing can provide the union with the impetus to overcome the economic, social and environmental crisis. it is estimated that 25 million european citizens live in social housing. all member states except greece have social housing, the extent of which varies considerably from one country to another; the difference is mainly between the western and eastern member states. the provision of social housing is one of the ways in which public authorities can respond to housing market failures in order to ensure universal access to decent housing at an adequate price. member states shall organise the provision of social housing parallel to the unplanned market supply offered under specific access conditions and at a fixed rent, by both non-profit-making entities specifically created for this purpose and private investors. despite these mechanisms, many eu citizens no longer have access to decent housing for financial reasons. in 2010, 5.7% of europeans had housing problems, 17.86% of residents lived in overcrowded or unsuitable apartments and 10.10% of households reported that housing costs exceeded 40% of their income. i therefore consider it crucial that social housing investments are given greater weight in the union's macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance system.
the right to live and work in any country and the right to education are among the fundamental pillars of the rights of citizens of the european union. i supported the report because if we are to move forward in the area of employment and achieve the europe 2020 target of increasing employment of women and men aged 20 to 64 to 75%, it is essential to come up with new proposals and solutions to meet this target. today, despite the high unemployment rate, there are still many vacancies on the labour market, for which it is difficult to find suitable candidates. i wonder why that is. and the answer? there's one in front of us, and we negotiated it yesterday. i therefore welcome all the activities and proposals of this report, which creates opportunities for the educational and professional mobility of women in the eu. i expect not only governments and public authorities to be involved in the process of professional mobility of women in the european union, but also the social partners and citizens themselves to do their utmost to remove obstacles to voluntary mobility.
in writing. − it can be assumed that in the coming period europe will face a significant task in ensuring an increasingly open and accessible labour market. access to information on cross-border mobility is still limited and very often many people are discouraged by its low quality. i consider it justified and important to ensure that the range of individual training options meets the requirement to ensure the employability and adaptability of workers throughout their working lives, thereby increasing their capacity for professional mobility. all citizens have the right to an adequate level of education, to supplement their knowledge and to acquire new skills during their working life. education and training systems should be or continue to be adapted to the needs of the labour market, the economy and society. lastly, a broad and positive impact on growth can only be achieved by stimulating and supporting investment in women's human capital and productivity.
in writing. − the overall unemployment rate for women in the european union is 10.7% and for young women 22.7%. employment mobility is one of the factors contributing to employment growth and therefore greater emphasis should be placed on its information. women are paid on average 16% less than men. this wage gap should be closed as soon as possible. women are disadvantaged in the labour market in several ways. not just in terms of wages, but also in terms of mobility. the conditions for achieving a balance between family life and work also influence their mobility. they receive lower wages for time spent caring for children, caring for needy family members, less pension due to periods of unemployment; there is a risk of impoverishment, their social rights are not guaranteed. many women work as nurses in other member states (including slovakia), which makes it possible to financially support families. their families are characterized by a decline in the amount of time they spend together. the children and family members feel the effects of this. family life and career are difficult to reconcile in this case. the conditions listed need to be balanced in order to make mobility in employment an incentive for women. that's why i supported the report.
quality, accessible and integrated transport infrastructure, environmentally and energy-efficient and safe transport are very important for the internal market and for the living standards of all citizens of the european union. despite considerable technical progress and cost-effective improvements, the transport system has not changed significantly in recent times. this is also reflected in the report which states that the current system of the european electronic toll service introduced by the commission has not produced the desired results and needs to be revised. although the introduction of an electronic toll is not a simple matter, i am convinced that the uniform application of toll payments to all vehicle types is the right step and a necessary step for the future. i expect the commission to make a detailed assessment and, if necessary, to submit these measures to the european parliament. i also expect a more significant shift in mobile phone payments for toll collection and stamp purchases, and from the member states a simpler system for stamp payments.
in writing. − if you have this directive aims to achieve interoperability of electronic toll systems in the european union. member states shall keep national electronic registers indicating the toll network, toll chargers and toll service providers which they consider eligible for registration and shall make those registers available to the public by electronic means. in addition, they shall establish a conciliation body responsible for facilitating contractual arrangements between toll chargers and providers of the european electronic toll service (eets). toll chargers must set up their electronic tolling systems in accordance with the technical standards laid down in the legislation and make their contractual terms publicly available. i am convinced that an efficient internal market is a prerequisite for economic growth and prosperity and allows the smooth, rapid and safe movement of goods and people within the union. it requires a well-developed, maintained and efficiently managed infrastructure.
in 2012, some 330 000 asylum applications were registered in the european union. and since the right to asylum is a fundamental right and the european union is a community of values, which includes in particular the respect and protection of fundamental rights, every democratic state must recognise and respect the right to asylum. i am therefore convinced that a common european asylum system is absolutely necessary. we need rules that are fast, fair and effective. the conditions of admission and the rules of procedure must be clear and unambiguous. we need to have minimum standards that all member states must adhere to. it is the commission's task to monitor this. the level of treatment of asylum seekers in some countries is truly unacceptable. these people have rights, too. conditions throughout the union must be comparable, proportionate, clear and simple. we must protect the values on which we built the european union. there are those who seek refuge from persecution or, for example, from war. those entrusted with our protection should have it. but at the same time, we have to be careful and we have to prevent our asylum system from being abused in the area of crime.
our citizens have given us a mandate to address first and foremost their daily problems, such as lack of employment opportunities, high cost of living or insecurity of existence. in my country, 14% of the working age population and 26% of young people who have finished school are unemployed. however, we do try to provide the necessary assistance to vulnerable foreigners seeking protection, where justified. but my citizens would not accept a decision from brussels about who and under what conditions our country should accept. indeed, in a decent society, the granting of aid is a voluntary, sovereign and autonomous decision of the aid provider. it cannot therefore be enforced by a decision of any brussels authority. i am therefore convinced that decisions on asylum policy must be taken as closely as possible to the people who provide assistance, that is, at the level of the assisting state.
the creation of the schengen area is one of the european union's greatest achievements. according to the survey, 62% of our citizens consider schengen to be the most positive outcome of european integration. free movement is a fundamental freedom of the european union and we must respect it. it is therefore necessary to strike an appropriate balance between the right to free movement and the right to security that each member state should guarantee to its citizens. last year saw events that seriously threatened the guarantees of free movement and freedom of movement. however, all member states are obliged to manage their borders in such a way as not to interfere with the free movement of persons within the schengen area. the reintroduction of border controls should be allowed only in genuinely exceptional circumstances. each measure relating to the reintroduction of internal border controls must be carefully considered, proportionate and implemented only as a genuine last resort. however, such a decision cannot in any event be an individual decision of one member state. the european union as a whole is the only competent authority to decide on it. the european parliament may in no case be excluded from this process.
the schengen documents are one of the most important elements of the eu acquis, both from a political and a civic perspective. this is why the european system that has been achieved and worked out so far must be maintained and further refined. i think parliament's position is an attempt to preserve the principles of mutual trust and cooperation in the schengen package. however, the idea of making internal border controls more regular is an obstacle to european cooperation and coexistence. we do not have to go far back in time, but many of us still have the experience of constant checks on border crossers. internal border controls should continue to be carried out only in exceptional and justified cases. this procedure cannot become routine. immigration and migration are natural processes, the consequences of economic and global change. so, these are not questions that can be answered by another iron curtain. member states must achieve effective problem solving through a different, strengthened eu tool. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles on which our community is built, and it is unique in the world. this needs to be further improved and rights consolidated, not a step backwards. schengen connects many regions, many peoples, but at the same time, the consolidation of external borders has pushed some countries further away from the eu that could be part of the european bloodstream. in addition to developing a solid internal system based on trust, appropriate guarantees should also be provided for cooperation with non-schengen countries. the main task of parliament in this process, in my view, is to strengthen europeanism, transparency and the sense of freedom of eu citizens, while guaranteeing security.
the report highlights the application of the european competition policy based on three basic instruments, i.e. antitrust rules, regulated state aid and merger control. with experience of the real functioning of economic life in my country, i would like to draw attention to the tangible phenomenon of replacing economic competition in some sectors. the coordination of price policies between a small number of decisive players in some sectors reminds me of the practice of cartels. for example, bank charges in my country are several times higher than in most eu countries, even though all the banks operating in our country are subsidiaries of the largest banking houses in the eu and have no reasonable reason to charge higher fees. however, they failed to prove the cartel agreement. a similar situation can be seen with mobile operators, whose prices we have managed to bring down significantly only through legislative measures and without the intervention of the state and the union, they would clearly not have been reduced by competition.
in writing. if we are to remove barriers to better access for smes to the internal market, we need an active competition policy. without it, the european social market economy is unthinkable. competition allows for price formation, efficient allocation and use of resources and social progress. in the context of globalisation, european businesses and the economy cannot survive without fair competition. the commission must therefore assess distortions of competition and their economic impact in cooperation with the national authorities. in the banking sector, the market share of some large financial institutions increased. the aim must be to strengthen competition in european banking markets. here, the antitrust rules need to be tightened. eu competition authorities must monitor markets for pharmaceutical, health and insurance services. in doing so, it is necessary to reveal abuses of patients' rights and discriminatory behaviour. while the organisation of the health and social care sector is primarily a member state competence, these services should be subject to controls to protect public finances and preserve competition law and the rights of eu citizens. the commission must take into account the employment objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. competition policy should allow better support for those smes which contribute most to job creation.
in writing. the topics of the forthcoming summit include increasing competitiveness, growth and jobs within the eu. but the unemployment rate in the eu countries was still 11% in may 2013! the youth unemployment rate exceeded, for example, the rate of the eu average in 2011. in greece and spain, the limit is 55%. within the eu, it has already risen to 21%, or 5.5 million people! the anti-crisis measures are ineffective! austerity and misdirected social investment have a negative impact especially on those eu citizens who are most affected by the crisis! member states need to set structural reforms more effectively, we need systemic measures and not just short-term solutions that only delay the necessary and ultimately have a negative impact on employment. we need to invest in a targeted way and strengthen the financing of the economy, we need to be decisive in taking measures for growth. it is therefore essential that member states continue to implement reforms and further strengthen social investment in order to create an effective social security system that should be a given in modern europe. the governments of the member states should focus on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most affected by the economic and social crisis. we must prevent the growing social unrest that is the result of ineffective and often ineffective measures by the right-wing governments of the member states, but also by the eu institutions.
in writing. − mr mimicu's main priorities should be the interests of european consumers in the wider political and economic context. it should place particular emphasis on a group of consumers affected by the current economic situation. it is very important to emphasise the achievement of the objectives of the european consumer agenda. food safety should also be emphasised. consumer policy is a cross-cutting policy. we need to provide better targeted information to consumers and ensure the enforcement of the far-reaching consumer acquis already adopted within the eu. this should be the main priority of mr mimicu's mandate.
in writing. − mr mates' areas of professional interest include fiscal policy, budgetary management, macroeconomic adjustment policy, monetary policy issues, as well as central banking, including issues of budgeting oriented to results and the efficient use of government expenditure. mr mates' professional competence is undeniable, but it is important that the main aspect, namely the complete independence of the member of the court of auditors, be preserved. the court of auditors shall assist the european parliament in the exercise of its powers of control over the implementation of the budget. all members of the court must be aware of this role and must do their utmost to cooperate with the european parliament.
in writing. − the committee on budgetary control has carefully assessed mr pufan's qualifications in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the candidate was duly heard on 27 may 2013. again, the candidate's independence must be emphasised in particular, unconditionally and in all circumstances.
in writing. − illegal fishing is carried out without regard for environmental, social and other standards. fish caught in this way are illegal. the fight against illegal fishing is not easy. the commission presented the first draft regulation back in 2007. illegal fishing is extremely damaging to our oceans. it must be effectively combated. the commission must continue this process. in the context of aligning regulation (ec) no 1005/2008 with the new rules of the tfeu, the commission has prepared a proposal to split the powers currently conferred on the commission by that regulation between delegated and implementing measures. in general, the proposed amendments concern only the types of acts to be adopted and do not change the content of the measures.
in writing. − in 2012, some 330 000 asylum applications were registered in the eu. the right of asylum is provided for in article 18 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in accordance with the geneva convention of 28 july 1951 and the protocol of 31 january 1967 relating to the status of refugees. the right to asylum is therefore a fundamental right. the european union is a community of values, among which respect for and protection of fundamental rights is of paramount importance. every democratic state must recognise and respect the right to asylum. we must have minimum standards that all member states must respect.
in writing. − this report is part of the so-called asylum package. in particular, the regulation aims to increase the effectiveness of the dublin system and to provide for higher standards of protection for those persons who belong to that system. the proposal contributes to improving overall case resolution, in particular with regard to individual asylum systems. it shall emphasise early warning, preparedness and a crisis management mechanism. it is necessary to provide legal certainty, to ensure the right to information and to enhance the protection of particularly vulnerable persons, such as unaccompanied minors.
in writing. - the report is part of the asylum package again. the directive aims to eliminate the shortcomings of the procedure for granting and withdrawing international protection. the aim is to ensure a higher, harmonised level of protection. the revised version introduces a new institution of the so-called personal interview, improves access to information and provides greater legal certainty. it also provides for clearer rules, the identification of vulnerable persons and their specific needs, and clearer rules on procedural time limits.
in writing. − in 2011, 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an increase of six million in two years, and now it is almost a quarter of the total population. more than 40 million people suffer from severe material deprivation. one in ten people under the age of 60 lives in a household with a very low work intensity. another problem is homelessness. according to one estimate, a total of 4,1 million homeless people lived in the union in 2009/2010. in 2011, more than 25 million children in the union were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in 2011, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion returned to the level of 2008 and most member states are making no progress towards meeting their national 2020 targets for combating poverty and social exclusion. the fund for european aid to the most deprived could help to improve the situation.
in writing. - in the last five years, we have talked more about poverty than in any other decade. this fact came as a shock to us, for surely none of us expected that such a change of circumstances could occur in a prosperous europe. i'm glad we didn't just stop at the words. the idea of creating a fund for european aid to the most deprived (fead) is a sign that we are able to actively face adverse conditions. i am of the opinion that fead membership should not be an obligation of a member state but a voluntary decision. the main argument for voluntariness is that resources are distributed only among those member states which consider assistance from the fund to be necessary. this will avoid inefficient use of funds that are not available in the fund. i appreciate the proposed broad scope of the fead, as it will allow member states to use the funds to address their own problems and alleviate poverty in ways that the conditions require.
in writing. − the commission has proposed a regulation establishing for the period 2014-2020 a new instrument to complement existing cohesion instruments, in particular the european social fund, by using it to tackle the worst and most socially devastating forms of poverty, food deprivation, as well as homelessness and material deprivation of children, while supporting accompanying measures aimed at the social reintegration of the union's most marginalised people. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reducing by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion by at least 20 million. however, the economic and financial crisis is deepening poverty and social exclusion across the union. in 2011, 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, an increase of six million in two years, and now almost a quarter of the total population. more than 40 million people suffer from severe material deprivation. one in ten people under the age of 60 lives in a household with a very low work intensity. although the fund has certain limitations, i am convinced that it can make a significant contribution to improving the living conditions of marginalised people, especially the homeless and children and households with children affected by material deprivation, and to helping them live in dignity.
in writing. − in the european union, there is a dramatic increase in the number of people living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. today, this figure is around 116 million, or 24.2% of the european population. as the mep for slovakia, i would like to point out that there is a steady increase in the number of people at risk of poverty in slovakia. there are now about 700,000 of them in our state, or 13 percent of the population. this is an increase of about 50 thousand people compared to 2010. about one in eight slovaks is now living in poverty. the slovak republic is aware, as is the eu, that unless the situation is tackled more rapidly and radically, we are facing a social explosion. although the economic and financial crisis has reduced the possibility of supporting people at risk of poverty and social exclusion in slovakia, slovakia has committed to reducing the number of poor by 170 000 by 2020. i am aware that the purpose of the proposed fund is not to solve poverty and to consider it as a replacement for comprehensive policies, but i welcome this fund as an important eu instrument that can make a significant contribution to member states in improving the living conditions of people living on the margins of society.
in writing. − this is another report in the package on a common european asylum system. eurodac is an information technology system containing fingerprints and personal data of asylum seekers. it was created to facilitate the application of the dublin system. the aim of the regulation is to lay down precisely defined and harmonised rules concerning the retention, comparison and deletion of fingerprints. at the same time, it is necessary to provide for the protection and security of such sensitive personal data. eurodac also serves the purposes of preventing, detecting and investigating terrorist offences and other serious crimes, as organised crime networks from third countries seek to exploit the asylum system and try to bring offenders from one network into an eu member state as contact persons for criminal activity.
in writing. − the commission has presented a proposal for a council decision on the possibility for member states' law enforcement authorities and europol to request comparison with data in eurodac for law enforcement purposes, specifying the precise means of such access. the european parliament did not adopt a legislative resolution on the september 2009 proposals. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs gave its provisional approval to the commission's proposal. the proposal therefore revises the 2010 draft regulation and replaces it with a new wording to take better account of the european parliament's resolution as well as the outcome of the council's negotiations. i considered the integration of law enforcement access into eurodac to be a necessary part of a balanced agreement in the negotiations on the package of the common european asylum system with a view to finalising its preparation by the end of 2012.
in writing. − free movement can be counted among the fundamental values of the european union, and the ability to move freely within the union without the need for internal border controls is one of its greatest achievements. after lengthy negotiations, the commission, parliament and council have reached agreement on new rules to improve the functioning of the schengen area. under the new agreement, frontex will periodically carry out an objective analysis assessing the risks and then consider what sanctions to apply. in the event of serious deficiencies, the commission will be able to propose, as a last resort, the reintroduction of border controls for a certain period. i am convinced that all the measures taken in this area will ensure that the schengen area, as one of the eu's most important achievements, is even better protected and managed.
in writing. the figures who gave birth to the european union - robert schuman, jean monnet, konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi - understood that the key to overcoming centuries of conflict was the idea of integration! free movement without internal border controls is the specificity of the european area and the reward for their years of work in the difficult beginnings of european unification. 'we have gone further by abolishing borders, following in the footsteps of the fathers of the union.' fifty years ago, that idea would have been a utopia, but today it's the reality we live in, and we have to make sure that it's preserved. although i am in favour of free movement without controls, i am aware that situations may arise in which the safety of the population is threatened. therefore, i agree with the proposal to re-establish internal borders as a temporary measure of last resort. in order to avoid any abuse of this measure, i agree with the proposal that the commission should report annually to parliament and the council on the functioning of the schengen area. i also agree with the rapporteur that parliament should adopt the commission's guidelines on the governance of the schengen area, as they will help to unify the interpretation and consolidate the rules on which the schengen area will continue to operate.
in writing. − if you have the coordination of national legislation on the structure and content of annual accounts and management reports, the valuation bases used in them and the publication of those documents by certain limited liability companies is of great importance with a view to protecting shareholders, members and third parties. i believe that the annual accounts should give a true and objective view of the assets and liabilities, the financial position and the profit or loss of the undertaking. to this end, i consider it appropriate to prescribe the mandatory structure of the balance sheet and profit and loss account and the minimum content of the notes to the financial statements and the management report.
in writing. − pursuant to article 33 of directive 2004/109/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 15 december 2004 on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market and amending directive 2001/34/ec, the commission is to submit a report to the european parliament and to the council on the application of this directive. i consider it important to increase the effectiveness of the existing transparency regime, in particular as regards disclosure of ownership of companies. at the same time, in order to avoid shortcomings in the transparency framework, the definition of an issuer should be extended to include issuers of unquoted securities represented by depositary receipts admitted to trading on a regulated market.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the union's budget is to comply with the multiannual financial framework. based on this relationship, it is important and necessary to determine the adjustment of the amount of direct payments where the forecasts for the financing of direct payments and market related expenditure, taking into account the financial transfers between the european agricultural guarantee fund and the european agricultural fund for rural development, indicate that the partial annual ceiling falling under heading 2 as defined in the financial framework will be exceeded. when the draft budget for 2014 was drawn up, the first estimates of direct payments and market related expenditure indicated that the partial ceiling for heading 2 of the 2014 financial year was likely to be exceeded. in order to comply with that ceiling, the amount of direct payments should be reduced.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it goes against the interests of slovakia. the eu's common agricultural policy is among the most discriminatory, as it very clearly applies the principle of 'old' and 'new' member states and divides the eu into several parts. it goes against the principle of solidarity on which the eu is built and clearly favours its western part. slovak farmers cannot compete with those in the western part of the eu if they do not have the same conditions. given that the western part of the eu tends to have smaller farms and the eastern part traditionally tends to have larger farms, such a 'ceiling' on subsidies is clearly a decision against us. this report was the wrong policy decision.
in writing. − i voted against the adjustment of the direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 73/2009 as regards the calendar year 2013 because i reject the application of the franchise under financial discipline, both in the proposal for the future organisation of direct payments (after 2013) and in the proposal addressing the direct payments in 2013. financial discipline and its application from eur 5000 is an artificially chosen criterion which affects member states differently depending on the size of the farms. the percentage of the adjustment rate due to financial discipline necessary to comply with the ceiling is 4,981759 % and has been calculated taking into account that it applies only to amounts exceeding eur 5000. due to the different structure of agricultural production in the different member states, such a measure involves an artificial reallocation of the national envelopes for direct payments.
in writing. − the european union aims to ensure a uniform and high level of border control and surveillance at its external borders. the schengen area, which originally had five members, now comprises 25 member states, soon to be joined by bulgaria and romania. recently, the need to make certain amendments has arisen, based on the practical experience of the member states and the commission in applying the schengen borders code. the substance and main objective of the proposed regulation is to adapt the already existing legal regulations on checks on persons at border crossing points and to improve the integrated border management policy by improving the rules when crossing the external borders.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy has set itself the objective, among other things, of helping at least 20 million people to escape poverty and social exclusion and also of increasing employment for the population aged 20 to 64 to 75%. the promotion of economic, social and territorial cohesion and the fight against social exclusion and discrimination are among the european union's fundamental priorities and objectives. while social security systems have benefited from improved social outcomes, they are also facing the consequences of demographic change and the economic crisis. i consider it extremely important to ensure the best possible use of existing resources and to try to avoid potential lasting adverse effects of the crisis that is currently ongoing.
in writing. − in a changing world, the european commission is focusing its policy on building a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy in europe. these efforts should help the countries of the union to achieve high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. in this context, the single market is europe's best asset for ensuring sustainable growth. i am of the opinion that, among other efforts, state aid control as one of the instruments of competition policy plays an important role in protecting and strengthening the single market.
in writing. − to see how parliament is responding effectively to the need for clearer rules on state aid today. it is positive that member states are allowed to use a wider set of parameters to define regional disadvantages. i particularly accept the parameter of unfavourable demographic conditions, which would allow productive investment for domestic smes with guarantees of job creation. i expect that access to state aid in the most disadvantaged regions will be simplified and made more transparent for these enterprises. the possibilities for member states to provide incentives, whether in the form of grants, tax breaks, loans or guarantees, often increase the attractiveness of regions in terms of foreign direct investment. i therefore expect that the finalised rules will not distort competition, that they will not be a disaster for investors who come only to benefit from the aid and that if the aid ends, they will leave a trail of destruction.
in writing. − competition policy is an important and essential part of the eu. even in view of the ongoing economic crisis, competition is an indispensable tool in crisis management. in recent years, competition policy has been the only instrument available to deal with the banking crisis at european level. competition is always crucial and justified in difficult times. at the same time, i believe that it is justified to involve the european parliament in the formulation of competition policy in order to achieve success.
in writing. − a market economy cannot be imagined without competition, which is the hallmark of a mature society. competition between economic operators in an economic area with the aim of outstripping other operators and thereby obtaining an economic advantage is possible only where the conditions of the company expressly permit it. it is our duty to create and maintain such conditions, because the competitiveness of enterprises and their activity is the driving force of any economy. i appreciate the report presented, because it deals with the various areas where competition can take place, and also with fines. i welcome the mention of other types of sanctions in the text on fines. national legislation regulates the legal remedies against unfair competition in different ways. the financial penalties are therefore not the only possible penalty and, moreover, in the current economic crisis, an unreasonably high fine may be liquidating for the business entity. for the reasons i have given, i support the report.
in writing. − i supported the report because competition policy not only contributes to the union's financial stability and structural reforms, but also becomes an effective tool for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth, and is the foundation of the european social market economy. although opinions on competition policy and its application during the financial, economic and social crisis differ, i personally see it as a good tool that can contribute to financial stability and restructuring in the eu, mitigating trends of protectionism and market fragmentation. although the commission's report on competition policy does not contain a section in which the commission deals with the impact of competition policy on employment and social affairs, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to its preparation, as it can be a useful guide for individual eu member states in improving competition policy. i expect the commission to be more vigorous in promoting social responsibility in all smes and international enterprises in the future, in the interests of better social cohesion and fairer competition.
in writing. − building on its may 2013 resolution, the european parliament considers that the newly proposed convergence and competitiveness instrument (cci) should be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. this instrument should be financed from the budget under the multiannual financial framework. the commission has also taken the view that the cci is a building block of genuine fiscal capacity, which promotes solidarity and the implementation of sustainable, growth-enhancing structural reforms.
in writing. − in the current economic crisis, many young people are facing unemployment. it is estimated that some eur 21 billion will be needed to alleviate and remedy this situation in the member states of the european union. at the same time, it is reasonable to assume that the only effective remedy for reducing mass unemployment among young people is to link education and the labour market in such a way that the two interact in a way that both educates and trains new workers and creates suitable jobs. the european union should really make adequate efforts to respond to the problems of millions of unemployed young people, whose enviable situation is currently not helped by the ongoing economic and social crisis already mentioned.
in writing. − the cancer of today's society is unemployment, which results not only in financial problems but also in a decline in the standard of living of the unemployed person and his family, stress about the future, alcoholism, and increasing crime. how much more dangerous is the situation when young people are involved! the fight against unemployment is very difficult because in a time of crisis we have a bad situation and a shortage of jobs. still, i am convinced that there is a solution. i see it in improving collaboration, in partnerships between businesses and vocational high schools and university faculties. cooperation is typical for large manufacturing enterprises, but it is important that it extends to smes, which could benefit from union support for such activities. moreover, this would prevent the creation of artificial jobs, which is often used as an argument against the youth guarantee. cooperation is beneficial for the company, which can develop the young person into the employee it needs, and conversely, a young person with only a secondary education can gain valuable practical experience and a great job at an early age.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on european measures to combat unemployment, which will be discussed by the european council at its next meeting. youth unemployment in europe is alarming. we already define unemployed youth as the so-called lost generation. we can name all the problems that cause higher youth unemployment - 15% of children drop out of school without completing secondary education, bad education, inadequate structure and other problems. we have solutions, but the problem is how to put them into practice. the youth guarantee programme is excellent and the release of funds for job creation or retraining is welcome, but at national level member states must bring school education systems into line with labour market and practical requirements and promote active entrepreneurial activities. we must remove all obstacles to the voluntary mobility of young people in education and in practice. in particular, it is necessary to take measures to convert unemployment benefits into remuneration for work performed.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the obligation of transparency in the eu has been continuously strengthened and access to documents has been enshrined as a fundamental right. transparency is particularly well-founded in legislative procedures. regulation no 1049/2001 is perceived by citizens and the wider european public as a key piece of legislation providing an overview of the union's activities. however, it is important to try to improve the implementation of this regulation. lastly, and taking into account in particular the desire and obligation to increase transparency in contracts after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, any revision of that regulation should not reduce the current level of transparency.
the current situation in turkey is a sign of the need for a much deeper democratisation of the country. the demonstrations that have spread across the country in recent days are no longer just about the arrogance of the government and the trees in taksim square, but about how turkish society should function. if turkey fails to reconcile secularism and democracy with islam, we can expect much deeper problems. not just in turkey. the whole region. i believe that the principles of democracy are universal and can work in an islamic society. the turkish experience confirms this. but you can't have half democracy or democracy once every four years. turkey is a modern country, it's our partner. i believe that the solidarity that many turkish protesters have found among themselves during this period could gradually open the way to a strengthening of democracy and pluralism in society. we should encourage this trend.
in writing. protests in turkey are a natural part of the increased public interest in political events, both in europe, north africa, the us, the arab world, but also in asia and sub-saharan africa. however, from the eu's point of view, turkey has a special status, being an eu candidate country, and so we are all much more sensitive to events in this country and the criteria by which we judge it also correspond to the highest criteria. violent repression of demonstrations is not a good business card of the erdogan government. but the right feels in the protests disapproval of its policy of "sneak islamization" of the turkish republic, suppression of ataturk's principles of civil government and a religiously unencumbered state. they are protests against government attempts to impose moral values, religious beliefs, and lifestyles on citizens. this is a dangerous trend and we must reject government attempts to dictate the private lives of citizens. the violent crackdown on protesters is also undermining turkey's hoped-for role as a model for democratic governance in arab spring countries. this is particularly painful for the eu, as it could lose a partner to promote positive, democratic change in other countries, such as syria. the eu must do everything possible to ensure that turkey does not slide down the path of dictatorship and islamisation and remains a credible democratic partner in the region.
the european external action service (eeas) should be a strong and stable pillar of european foreign policy. this requires a better and more efficient use of the resources and means at our disposal. it's a new structure that's still in the process of being built. three years of operation have brought positive results, but have also revealed shortcomings that need to be corrected. we need a strong and effective foreign service. that means she has to have strong political leadership. foreign relations, and in particular our neighbourhood policy, are an area where the union has the potential to play a key role. this requires a response that is appropriate and speaks with one strong and respected voice. secondly, it must have a structure that underpins the implementation of the common foreign policy. it is therefore necessary to make better use of the options available and to avoid duplication of effort. the role of foreign ministers could also help to strengthen the union's external policy. next, we need a transparent eeas. the european parliament and its views should be taken into account more often when important decisions are taken. this is also because parliamentary scrutiny strengthens the legitimacy of external action and brings the foreign service closer to the citizens of the union. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate the geographical balance in the european external action service and remind baroness ashton of the potential and capabilities of diplomats from the new member states.
recent reports in the washington post about the secret operation prism run by the national security agency of the united states of america have pointed to a deficit of protection mechanisms in everyday electronic communication. if the operators of the communication servers provide the us intelligence services with all the information they have obtained about our citizens, do you think that the independent media, their newsrooms and journalists have been exempt from this spying? no, of course not. and just as a pervert with his eyes crossed through a keyhole watches his naked neighbor shower, so obama's secret eyes and ears are watching with interest the work and communications of all the media and their employees they can reach. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to talk about real freedom of the media and the press in the world, we must also ensure that the freedoms and rights declared by law become binding on all kinds of official and unofficial spies.
our debate today on human rights, civil liberties and building democracy is well timed. two years after the arab spring, the euphoria of one of the biggest changes of the last decade is slowly fading, replaced by frustration and disappointment at the feeling that countries are not going in the best direction. democratic change is not enough and it is slow. 2012 has shown us and reminded us that democracy needs institutions that allow it to grow. and also social conditions that guarantee the protection of human rights and civil liberties. the eu must therefore play a leading role in promoting democracy, in particular in its neighbourhood and in the countries applying for membership of the european union. we should be more agile and efficient in this regard. we should not lower our demands on the functioning of democratic institutions, the rule of law and civil liberties, especially in countries that are in our immediate neighbourhood. experience has shown us that lasting stability and prosperity are based primarily on concord and legitimacy, not repression. there is no single model of democracy, each country has its own way, but respect for human rights and civil liberties is a universal value that underpins all legitimate political systems.
for the efd group. if we are to deal with the economic crisis, which europe is now facing for the fourth year running, we will probably have to work towards building a more effective transatlantic partnership. given the particular difficulties in trade and investment in this partnership, i think that a number of structural changes need to be implemented gradually. but we cannot afford to let the current negotiations continue for another ten years. we need to move forward quickly and efficiently. the uk presidency of the g8 should have given the right signal that the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, together with the trans-pacific partnership, would pave the way for trade liberalisation, providing a new tool for growth and stability, and helping to create new jobs, which would certainly strengthen our transatlantic alliance. however, given that this report calls for a wider transatlantic partnership at the end, i am surprised that the rapporteur has not included any mention of the importance of the mediterranean region in this cooperation. especially considering what's going on in our own backyard today. this is also in view of the fact that the council of the european union and the united states of america last december recognised the importance of this area.
madam president, in today’s fluid and multipolar system the transatlantic partnership is no longer sufficient for addressing global problems, from the syrian conflict to global warming, to piracy, to cyber-warfare. these challenges will require a new combination of actors and multilateral formats that integrate the emerging powers. in this context, i support the idea of drawing latin america and africa more deeply into the existing transatlantic dialogue. it is sometimes said that the eu faces the choice between tightening our strategic partnership with the us or working towards more flexible coalitions with other players such as south africa or brazil, but it is a false choice. to stay relevant on the global scene and be a strategic partner for the us, the eu must pursue both options simultaneously.
mr president, with discussions on the ttip negotiations still in progress, there is a need to continue to strengthen and expand the partnership between the eu and the usa to include subjects such as global governance, social issues, human rights, security and energy. the partnership will need to project a unified stance on the international order of peace in international forums such as the united nations. together, the usa and the eu should also create a transatlantic political council for consultation and coordination on foreign and security policy. there is also the growing importance of the entire atlantic basin, in which the eu should aim to establish relations and help those states to deal with the problems, including democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights. this will encourage further cooperation between eu and us programmes that already promote democracy, universal human rights and free and fair elections. i would like to thank you, madam president, and to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report.
madam president, first may i congratulate the successful french operation in northern mali to unseat the coalition of salafist jihad and militant groups who had taken control of major population centres in early 2012. while the offensive has been successful, the militants and extremists have not yet been defeated. relying purely on military measures will not solve the problem. in order to provide long-term stability in mali, the sources of radicalisation need to be addressed. the eu has to assist mali in addressing the roots of instability and conflict in this country, which are complex and run deep. internal sources of insecurity include institutional weakness and corruption, endemic poverty and socio-political tensions. the challenge today is how to reduce political corruption and rectify the imperfections in infrastructure delivery and the provision of public goods.
the european union must take a firm stand against both radical islam and terrorism. mali is a key country in this region, because one of the first and most important tasks is to prevent this phenomenon, this threat, from spreading to sub-saharan africa. this is the first key issue and therefore a security zone must be created that is coherent from the sahel through the sudan to the horn of africa. i think that from this point of view it is also essential to deal with the creation of a strategic security mechanism that would work in this area and that would create a barrier both towards sub-saharan africa and towards north africa, and rid both north africa and the south of this negative phenomenon - that is, radical islam and terrorism. stabilisation in mali will be key and if it succeeds, the funds invested in that country will also be invested in a meaningful way.
madam president, as identified during the conference on mali organised by the eu in february of this year, the focus of the eu should be to enable malians to take ownership of a peaceful and democratic solution to the current crisis and to allow them all to participate in the country’s economic and political life. in order to achieve this, i believe we must avoid symptom-oriented policies to prevent terrorism and radicalisation in mali. famines, droughts and the inability of the national government to provide for basic food security are driving forces for discontentment and local disillusionment. the eu will have to provide further financial and political support to the agir-sahel initiative as part of a comprehensive approach to combat the root causes of mali’s current challenges. to successfully rebuild mali and re-establish stability, the necessary first steps are to address the core issues of food security in combination with the retraining of the malian forces. therefore, i welcome the establishment of the eu training mission in mali, which will prove critical in providing security and ability in the country. the european union must show great resolve and help malians overcome this most difficult period.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i really appreciate it, and i apologise. i came very early, but i completely missed the schedule that was in my office. the interim epa is an intermediate step on the way to a deeper regional integration, which will be achieved through the conclusion of a fully-fledged regional agreement covering the entire central african region. i approve of this interim agreement, as it sends a signal on the importance of the trade relationship with the central african region. this epa has the potential to become a powerful catalyst for deeper integration within central africa, with longer-term benefits for the countries involved. however, the vision of a continental free trade area can only bear fruit if the regional grouping in africa proceeds with further integration. it is clear that the current efforts towards integration are insufficient and need to be intensified. central african states must show a renewed political commitment to concluding negotiations, because the lack of regional integration remains a major obstacle to trade-driven development. central african cross-border trade volumes remain relatively small. therefore, the reduction of barriers to intra-regional trade remains a priority. my group welcomes the vision of cameroon as an emerging economy by 2035. it is the key player and partner in the central african region. we urge cameroon, together with gabon and equatorial guinea, to assume its responsibility of becoming an engine for further integration within the cemac, with a view to creating an effective customs union.
the united nations has one and a half years left to achieve its millennium development goals. nevertheless, we can say that significant progress has already been made in meeting these objectives, in particular in reducing extreme poverty, but also in reducing child and maternal mortality. the new post-2015 development agenda must respond to changing global conditions in the areas of demographic trends, economic movements or climate change. the new millennium framework should, in my view, be based on the eradication of poverty and the achievement of sustainable development, including well-functioning health protection and education support mechanisms. the creation of a peaceful and calm environment, which provides the basic foundation for good, transparent and democratic governance, must be a prerequisite for achieving these objectives. only by establishing good governance mechanisms in society can we achieve the conditions for a greater use of domestic resources in developing countries to finance these objectives, in particular by effectively tackling corruption and increasing legal tax revenues. the amount of illicit financial flows that rob developing countries of their future is enormous, and if it were legal, many developing countries would not be dependent on outside aid.
eradicating poverty is a noble cause and reflects the high standards of the western world. but as i read the text of the report, i was overwhelmed by a sense of belonging to all mankind. but i also ask, why don't we offer our values? we want to be generous, we want to do some philanthropy, but it's not enough. we know that we live in a world of crisis, and today's crisis is first and foremost a crisis of moral values. you have to call it what it is. abortion is a moral offense, that's what law students are taught in all law schools. and we still turn it into a cure for all of society's problems? i am firmly opposed to the european parliament's putting its energies and resources into the illogical promotion of abortion and harmful contraceptives, and elevating it to the status of a so-called improvement in living conditions. let's talk about the value of human beings, let's protect human rights and human life. the world is missing humanity, and that's supposed to be the main goal of the millennium.
i support almost all the points in the report and congratulate my colleague mr kaczmark. i am even more disappointed that in the section entitled health, nutrition, education and social protection so much attention is given to the demand for the liberalization of abortion. there is no consensus within the union itself on the level of protection of unborn human life. the eu has no competence to formulate policies involving arbitrary attitudes towards termination of pregnancy. yet the eu has become notorious in the world for promoting a one-sided approach to development aid that devalues human life and ultimately calls into question the very meaning of development aid. the result is a decline in europe's influence in the world. i would therefore ask you to reject in your vote those parts of the text which concern so-called reproductive rights and abortion.
for the efd group. since 1975, we have been gradually improving and extending the contractual relations formally established between the european union and the acp countries under the lomé convention through the revision mechanisms of the acp-ec partnership agreement signed in cotonou in 2000. the latest revision of the agreement, in march 2011, brings a number of positive changes, including a joint effort to achieve the millennium development goals in the areas of poverty reduction, food security, health, climate change and sustainable development. the emphasis on strengthening the role of local authorities and national parliaments also raises hopes for more democratic and transparent governance in these countries. however, several important themes in this revision of the agreement are not included in its content. we know that in the developing world, illicit financial flows are a big problem, amounting to eight times the amount of official development assistance. if these illicit flows were properly taxed through good and transparent governance, countries would gain significant resources to implement the necessary social and health programmes. we should therefore not leave out of the agreement the issue of sound tax administration in relation to development aid opportunities. this area also includes the issue of fair trade and transparent financial flows, which should also be present in the revised version. a particular issue that we will have to seriously address in cooperation with our acp partners is the issue of mechanisms for the readmission of migrants in their countries of origin, which we do not have sufficiently regulated. i understand that we can no longer enter into the negotiated text of the revision of the agreement today. however, i would welcome it if the commission did not forget these areas in the forthcoming revision of the agreement.
in writing. − as preferential access to the european market did not lead to sustainable growth or sufficient integration of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states into the world economy and the unilateral trade preferences granted by the european union were incompatible with the principle of non-discrimination of the world trade organisation (wto), a transitional solution was adopted in the form of temporary, framework and advance gsps. i consider it justified to give my consent to the interim agreement and at the same time i believe that it is possible to assume that this step will demonstrate the importance of the trade relationship with the whole of the central african region. the transitional mfa should become a significant accelerator of deeper integration in central africa in the longer term, with further benefits for the region.
i must say in the explanation of vote that this is the first legislative resolution of the european parliament which does not respect the prescribed legal nature of legislative resolutions. paragraphs 2 and 3 of the proposed resolution normally form part of an owninitiative report and have no place in a legislative resolution. legislative resolutions have to be clear, and in this case, we're presenting political views in a resolution. tolerating such an explicit form of breach of parliamentary rules does not do the european parliament any good. this situation is, in my view, deplorable.
in writing. − relations between the acp countries and the eu were established in the 1970s after most of the acp countries gained independence. cooperation between the eu and the acp countries was based on the lomé convention. the acp-ec partnership agreement (known as the cotonou agreement), signed in cotonou, benin, on 23 june 2000, replaced the lomé development cooperation framework. the agreement was concluded for a period of 20 years from 1 march 2000 to 28 february 2020. article 95 allows for the agreement to be reviewed every five years. i think it is justified for parliament to give its consent to the agreement, while at the same time the unsatisfactory clauses will need to be revised accordingly.
in writing. − the right to freedom of expression is a universal human right. it is at the same time the basis for democracy and is essential for the enjoyment of rights such as development, dignity. restrictions on freedom of expression have serious consequences and if they should be imposed then only to a very limited extent. this restriction can only be justified under narrowly defined and strict conditions laid down by laws which satisfy the legitimate requirements of international law. media platforms are becoming increasingly global and the number of users is also increasing. yet, freedom of speech and of the press, as well as freedom of the press, are under threat around the world. many journalists are persecuted, even imprisoned. i am convinced that the european union will only be credible if freedom of the press and media is respected and protected.
in writing. − freedom of expression is perceived as a very sensitive issue in the european area. this is also confirmed by the results of the 2013 reporters without borders study, which ranked the european union countries in the top three in the press freedom index. central and eastern europe has experienced the terror of censorship for 40 years, so we, the people of these countries, are very sensitive to the possibility of free expression. and because of our attitude to freedom of speech, these countries are now ranking very well in similar studies. the limits of freedom of speech are set by law, and the government is the branch of power that creates an atmosphere in which that freedom is either respected or not. i strongly condemn all attacks that are directed against journalists. despite the obstacles, the media should always be the conscience of society and this must never be silenced. on the other hand, journalists must be aware of the responsibility and power of their words. they should respect the plurality of opinions, religious feelings, and above all, they should try to provide truthful information so that everyone has the opportunity to form his own opinion.
in writing. − the right to freedom of expression is a universal human right that forms the basis of democracy and is essential for the enjoyment of other rights that citizens around the world seek to achieve, such as the development, dignity and fulfilment of every human being. freedom and pluralism of the media are the result and guarantee of an effective and legitimate democratically elected government. the media are expected to provide a platform for freedom of expression accessible to all social groups. therefore, we should promote constructive public debate and appropriate political engagement of citizens aimed at raising the level of political awareness. restrictions on freedom of expression have serious consequences and should be limited. states that have signed the international covenant on civil and political rights and the european convention on human rights are obliged to guarantee the independence, freedom and pluralism of the press and media. governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting freedom of the press and media. the journalistic profession is increasingly on the front lines of the fight for human rights, both online and offline, but many journalists do not have access to legal aid. the eu should therefore demonstrate political leadership to the maximum extent possible in order to ensure the protection of journalists on a global scale.
in writing. − the purpose of the directive on the re-use of public sector information is to harmonise the basic conditions for re-use and to remove the main obstacles to re-use in the internal market. the directive contains provisions on non-discrimination, charging, exclusive agreements, transparency, licensing and practical tools to facilitate the retrieval and re-use of public documents. the primary objective of the union in this context can be seen as to seek to improve the conditions for the use of public sector information and thus contribute to economic growth and job creation. the objective set is fully consistent with the union's horizontal strategies, in particular the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the recovery of the eu economy requires a stable financial sector. in order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to achieve the banking union originally envisaged by the european institutions. in its resolution on banking, the european parliament called for further measures to be taken with regard to money market funds, in particular to improve the resilience of those funds and to cover liquidity risks. it is important to take into account and take into account all such measures.
in writing. − the commission proposal builds on the early warning and response system established in 1988 for communicable diseases and presents measures to strengthen the european union's response capacity to prevent serious crossborder health threats by means of tools, networks and structures complementing those already in place in the union to combat these threats. recent events have highlighted the european union's lack of capacity to respond to health crises caused by the misuse of medicines or the sale of defective medical devices. an effective warning system could prevent these dramatic situations. since the early warning and response system is largely based on the work of experts, it is important to devote a specific article to the criteria of independence and transparency that experts must fulfil. it is necessary to define in this decision the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) beyond communicable diseases. the importance of the centre's ongoing cooperation with the european commission and the member states should also be noted. it is therefore necessary that there is a regular dialogue between the commission and the european parliament in order to enable the parliament to be duly informed of the activities and proper functioning of the early warning and response system.
in writing. − turkish police used excessive and disproportionate violence against the people of istanbul who opposed the construction project and the related felling of trees and greenery in istanbul taksim gezi park. the police crackdown took place first in istanbul, but later in other cities as well. the right to peacefully assemble and protest was violated, and many people were injured after police intervention. it is important and justified to call on and urge the turkish authorities to guarantee and respect the right of all citizens to freedom of expression, peaceful assembly and peaceful protest. at the same time, it is imperative that all peaceful protesters who have been detained are released. it is also important to respect the rights of detainees and to provide adequate medical care to those injured.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty set out the objective of ensuring the unity, consistency and effectiveness of the union's external action. the european external action service (eeas) is a new body drawing on both community and intergovernmental resources and is unparalleled within the eu. if i am to criticise this institution, i believe that the criticism must be fair and constructive. it is important to evaluate and assess the success of the eeas primarily in terms of its ability to implement the eu's comprehensive approach to contemporary challenges and tasks in the field of external action.
in writing. − despite the criticism and many round-the-clock mocks, i still think that the european external action service (eeas) is still a relatively new institution and that not enough time has passed to fully assess some aspects of its organisation and functioning. the importance of the eeas is confirmed in particular by the better coordination and good governance of development issues at international level, which helps the eu to speak with one voice and thus to gain greater visibility in the world. the eeas plays an important role in the planning and formulation of the eu's bilateral development cooperation programmes with partner countries and regions and, together with the commission and under the leadership of the commissioner for development policy, is responsible for the preparation of all strategic multiannual programming documents relating to the development cooperation instrument and the european development fund.
it is very good that the european parliament, in its resolution, has proposed to the council that european foreign policy should begin to devote itself consistently to freedom of belief and religion in the world. i myself have been criticising the passivity of the commission and european diplomacy in cases of persecution of christians for years. the parliament's resolution, while not legally binding, signals that more and more members are becoming aware of the importance of freedom of belief and religion for the development of democracy and a functioning economy. i also hope that parliament will one day express a similarly critical view of the violation of religious freedom on european soil. the ideology of anti-discrimination has led to christians being persecuted for their faith and its symbols right here in the eu. i believe that will change in the near future.
in writing. − if you have the right to freedom of religion or belief, the right not to believe and the right to change one's religion or belief are among the fundamental freedoms of every human being. in accordance with the norms of international law, all states are obliged to ensure effective protection for all their citizens and all other persons within their respective jurisdiction. regrettably, despite legislation, many individuals, families, and communities are persecuted in many parts of the world. and although discrimination on grounds of religion or belief exists in europe and worldwide, i believe it is extremely important to take steps to be able to prevent such practices as much as possible.
in writing. − the protection of freedom of belief is increasingly mentioned in public discourse, but this discussion is about the very narrowly defined freedom of religion and belief. it is as if we forget that a person does not leave his beliefs behind closed doors as soon as he leaves his home environment, but that his beliefs or faith are an inherent part of himself and form an integral part of his personality. freedom of belief is not absolute, but to restrict freedom of religion to purely private expression and to condemn it to the private sphere of the individual i consider to be a gross interference with human rights and freedoms, since an inherent part of the right to belief is the possibility of practicing one's religion, including the right to conscientious objection. my dear colleagues, none of us wants to be forced to do something against our conscience, why would we want to deny this right to the citizens we represent? and those of us who have children of our own, and especially those of us who have experienced communist education, know how important the right of parents to raise their own children is, and the non-interference of the state. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − as a politician who believes in the values of social democracy, i fully support freedom of religion and its protection. these freedoms, unfortunately, are constantly being abused as a tool of political struggle in the hands of christian radicals who have a constant need to mix faith and worldly things. among the most controversial proposals are certainly those enabling the abolition of the right to terminate a pregnancy. in a time of universal struggle for human rights and gender equality, i find such backtracking steps totally unacceptable. not everyone has to like such a right, not everyone has to agree with it. but i believe that respect for the rights and decisions of others is the foundation of democracy. i therefore fully support the decision of our group and the green group not to support this report.
in writing. − the most important political and economic relations in the atlantic region are those between the eu and the us. in today's globalised world, the eu and the us should, despite the economic crisis, continue to play a vital role in world politics, the economy and shaping the international environment, and should seek to address international challenges together. the broader transatlantic partnership should also address issues such as development, security, energy and immigration, while taking steps towards gradual economic and political convergence.
in writing. - mali is one of the poorest countries in the world. even before the current crisis, mali suffered from socioeconomic disparities between the north and south of the country, as well as from poor adherence to democratic principles, rampant corruption and organised crime. in order to rebuild mali, political dialogue must be renewed. in order to consolidate the difficult situation, the commission will provide the country with development assistance in stages of up to eur 250 million to support, in particular, areas such as the provision of basic services including healthcare, access to water and sanitation, strengthening food security and economic recovery.
in writing. − the european union has been supporting peace in afghanistan for over a decade. its efforts are leading to the establishment of effective measures under palestinian responsibility and in line with international standards. despite the considerable progress made, many challenges remain. the european union is also contributing to and leading efforts and actions to improve health services, agriculture, access to water, public administration, police reform, social protection, good governance and regional cooperation. it is important to continue this trend in the efforts to rebuild the country.
in writing. − if you have in september 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, setting out specific, time-bound goals to be achieved by 2015. significant progress has been made in meeting the millennium development goals: the target of reducing extreme poverty by half, the target of halving the proportion of people without reliable access to improved drinking water, and the conditions of more than 200 million people living in slums have been improved. we have seen faster progress in reducing infant and maternal mortality. progress has also been made towards the objective of improving access to basic education. however, much more work remains to be done. the world continues to suffer from poverty, hunger, inequality and insecurity. an estimated 1.3 billion people still live in extreme poverty, and many challenges still need to be addressed and are important in order to achieve the set targets.
in writing. − in 2000, the un adopted the millennium declaration and subsequently set concrete, time-bound targets to be achieved by 2015. significant progress has been made in meeting the millennium development goals: the target of reducing extreme poverty by half, the target of halving the proportion of people without reliable access to improved drinking water, and the conditions of more than 200 million people living in slums have been improved. overall, the mdgs were a success at the political level and provided a basis for mobilising political action and public opinion on development issues. however, there is still much work to be done before the two-year deadline expires. the world continues to suffer from poverty, hunger, inequality and insecurity. an estimated 1.3 billion people still live in extreme poverty and many challenges remain in relation to the achievement of the millennium development goals. the un should review progress on the current development goals this year and begin to focus on the post-2015 development framework. i agree and support the efforts of the rapporteur the eu must be fully involved in this debate and present a coordinated position on concrete follow-up actions to the rio+20 conference and the preparatory process ahead of the september special event on the millennium development goals.
the level of oppression faced by the muslim minority in burma raises legitimate concerns about the way the burmese administration is running its country. the expulsion of people from their homes, the destruction of their places of worship, terrorism, rape on ethnic and religious grounds are clear crimes against humanity. we should therefore not hesitate to step up economic pressure on the burmese administration and, by suspending preferential benefits, to force the burmese authorities to recognise all human rights for the rohingya muslims as well. the burmese authorities must immediately allow humanitarian organisations to provide the necessary assistance to all displaced refugees and take all necessary measures to bring the persecution and expulsion of this community to an end as soon as possible.
for the efd group there is no doubt that the state of the art of motor vehicles has a significant impact on the safety of our roads. regular technical inspections of motor vehicles have therefore become part of the conditions for their use on the road, within the meaning of european legislation. but i would like to point out that sometimes even well-meaning legislative actions can cause us serious problems. in my country, for example, regular vehicle inspections have become a tool for harassment and bullying of car owners. without any examination, the authorities began to impose heavy fines on car owners who failed to have their vehicles inspected by the prescribed deadline. without any warning or warning, they also require fines from owners whose vehicles are long-term disabled and waiting in auto repair shops or garages for spare parts. it is therefore clear that it is not enough to adopt legislation and set technical parameters, but that the mechanisms for applying the rules introduced must also be devised so that they do not become a legitimate source of citizens' dissatisfaction with the incompetent functioning of the european institutions.
the mobility of persons in the european union is constantly increasing and legislation dealing with the obligation to check the technical condition of vehicles needs to be better harmonised at european union level. the number one priority must be road safety in particular. the new proposals for regulations put forward by the commission are, in my view, absolutely justified. the aim is to reduce road deaths by 2020 and let's be honest, this is the segment where young people between 15 and 29 die on our roads. therefore, vehicles and infrastructure must be safer and road users must behave more responsibly. the very important aspect of this proposal is that it is only a minimum of rules and that member states must be allowed to lay down stricter rules. the proposal is also important in terms of a higher level of environmental protection. however, we must also ensure that the level and quality of control itself is increased. fraud related to mileage also needs to be addressed, as the manipulation of meters often produces false and misleading information and is indeed dangerous. today i had the opportunity to witness a major traffic accident on a german motorway again and to see a huge truck overturned and burned certainly arouses concern not only in me but especially in the number of cars that followed that car and then had to wait there for a long time, not to mention the wasted human lives. so let's really approach this topic with the consistency it deserves.
the main theme of the summit was youth unemployment, and although topics such as increasing competitiveness, growth and employment are discussed over and over again, we still seem to be failing to achieve concrete results. i think it is very important to recall that the youth unemployment rate in the european union has already risen to 21%, which corresponds to 5.5 million young people. in other years, the number of young people without work increases dramatically. combating youth unemployment requires a comprehensive approach and the right targeted investments, and it is our duty to mobilise all available instruments. we have structural funds, we have the european social fund, which is one of the main financial instruments at the level of the european union. we're finally realizing that social investment is not just an expense, it's an investment that will bring real improvement in the future.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate ireland on the successful organisation of the presidency, which has left a positive legacy for the future. the irish presidency had a clear vision from the outset, and promoting economic growth and job creation were among its main priorities. it is in these areas that some tangible successes have been achieved. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. the high rate of youth unemployment is also a major problem today. one way to actively combat it is through the erasmus+ programme, approved during the irish presidency, which will enable four million young people to benefit from grants to support mobility and learning by 2020. the most difficult and important step of the presidency was the adoption of the budget. the compromise ireland has negotiated secures the budget for the next seven years and will allow the financing of programmes to promote employment.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will be very brief, since this report on the authorisation to accede to the 1997 protocol of the vienna convention has not been debated in the plenary, and i would like to give you some brief information about the subject matter and the aim of this report. the proposal enables the contracting parties of the vienna convention on civil liability for nuclear damage to ratify the protocol or to accede to it. the council’s decision is addressed to the eu member states that are contracting parties to the vienna convention but who have not ratified or concluded its 1997 protocols so far. these countries are bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia. the amendment to the vienna convention is an update of the rules to strengthen the right to fair compensation for damage in the event of nuclear accidents. accession to the 1997 protocol is therefore beneficial for improving victim compensation across the european union. the council decision proposes to authorise the conclusion or ratification of the 1997 protocol for the council member states. in accordance with the treaties of the eu, the council decision requires the consent of the parliament. as your rapporteur, i do recommend that parliament gives it consent to the council decision in order to allow the contracting parties to conclude the 1997 protocol.
in writing. − population growth, large-scale increases in food and energy demands and the scarcity of natural resources pose new challenges for the union. the balance between production and consumption must be managed in an efficient and sustainable manner. the bioeconomy offers a good opportunity to meet these challenges. it also contributes to supporting rural development, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and making the production cycle more sustainable. the commission communication on the european bioeconomy and the action plan to bring the bioeconomy strategy to life outlined in the communication contain three components: promoting research and innovation, creating greater synergies between different policies and strengthening markets and competition. develop and support coherent research and innovation programmes, provide financing for industrial investments and make financial instruments available. public-private partnerships dedicated to the bio-based industry, support for new projects, development and marketing of new products should be encouraged. bioeconomy strategies should also promote more efficient use of household and municipal waste. the use of by-products and residues from agriculture and forestry shall be addressed. the adoption of better legislation is essential to the effective use of the latter, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
written − international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy. it appears justified to give priority to union legislation over the legislation of the member states which ratified the 1997 protocol before joining the european union, i.e. latvia and romania, and the member states which are parties to the paris convention. it is recommended that the contracting parties to the vienna protocol, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, lithuania, poland and slovakia, ratify or conclude the 1997 protocol.
in writing − this so-called procedural regulation has not been substantially amended since its adoption in 1999 and is part of the commission's modernisation initiative. it was drafted together with a report on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is justified to express support for the general objective of the commission's proposal, namely to maintain the smooth functioning of the single market. at the same time, it is necessary and important to ensure that competition policy remains fair and takes into account the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
i supported the report because i believe it is a good report, which not only analyses and assesses the current state of the eu's external aviation policy, but also points out the problems and shortcomings that can threaten a competitive aviation industry within the global network. i consider it important to stress the importance of the need for long-term investment in airport infrastructure in order to increase capacity and make more efficient use of existing infrastructure, including regional airports on the eastern borders of the eu. this includes the airport in my town of košice, slovakia, which is the gateway to the schengen area in eastern europe and is 100 km from the ukrainian border. the development of our region will also depend on the possibility of using more airport capacity and investments in airport infrastructure. it will be important for the future of regional airports that member states start setting up or maintaining regional airports and ensure investment in their infrastructure.
in writing − aviation is now a key sector of the european economy. it contributes €365 billion to european gdp and provides 5.1 million jobs. however, so far, the air force has not been able to meet all of its objectives. it is justified to make a joint effort to harmonise aviation within the member states of the european union, also in order to be able to respond more flexibly to the challenges of the external market. we should seek to reach a comprehensive agreement on air transport with some neighbouring countries and key economic partners. at the same time, joint action should also take into account efforts to maintain the competitiveness of the aviation industry.
in writing − if you have in 2011, the parliament and the council reached an agreement on the transposition of the 2005 oecd agreement on export credit activities into eu law. it was agreed that the commission would be empowered to adopt delegated acts concerning the transposition of future versions of the oecd agreements in exchange for increased transparency of member states' export credit activities at eu level. the report submitted includes a set of recommendations for future reporting. at the same time, it is important to seek to align member states' export credit activities with the eu's external action objectives.
in writing − well-targeted export credits provided by export credit agencies have a great impact on people's daily lives, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and i therefore see them as an important tool in european companies in creating suitable opportunities for trade and entrepreneurship. although the commission report refers to the poor quality of the reports produced for each member state for 2011 and to the poor evaluation of these reports by the commission, i supported this report because i think that we can consider it as a first step that can lead to improving the reporting of subsequent reports and to remedying the identified shortcomings. as it is not yet possible to assess whether export credit activities are in line with the union's foreign policy objectives on the basis of the annual reports submitted by the member states, i expect that the commission will be able to assess these facts sufficiently when presenting the next annual report. i believe that in the future, in order to improve the quality of the preparation of future annual reports and to assess them more objectively, procedures and recommendations for the member states and the commission must be clearly defined, so that they can more clearly assess the compliance of the member states with the objectives of the union.
in writing − if you have at the parliamentary session in december 2012, the president announced that he had received a request from the office of the chief prosecutor at the lyon court of appeal to waive the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen. the request was then referred to the committee on legal affairs. marine le pen is accused of inciting hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of persons on the basis of their religious beliefs. this was to take place in december 2010 in lyon, in a speech broadcast and published in the press. on the basis of the facts available and after considering the arguments for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, it was recommended that the european parliament waive the parliamentary immunity of marine le pen.
in writing − the initiative creates a new european legal form to facilitate the establishment of foundations and related activities in the single market. it will allow private funds to be channelled more efficiently to public good purposes on a cross-border basis within the eu. this should lead to greater financial support for public activities and charitable causes. the initiative should have a significant positive impact on the public good of european citizens and the eu economy as a whole. this proposal does not aim to address the specific situation of political foundations affiliated to political parties at european level.
in writing − the maritime labour convention (mlc) was adopted by the international labour organisation (ilo) on 23 february 2006. it is intended to replace the 37 existing ilo maritime conventions and related recommendations adopted since 1920, and will be the first comprehensive maritime labour code applicable to over 1.2 million seafarers worldwide. after some tense negotiations, the parties finally reached an agreement. the convention should enter into force in august 2013. among other things, one of its paragraphs states that the measures taken to implement this directive must not lead to a reduction in the general level of protection of seafarers in the context of social legislation within the union.
in writing − every year, we witness thousands of accidents and incidents in eu waters, which have an impact not only on the environment but also, in many cases, on people, who are often at risk of death or injury in these disasters. as the eu's primary objective is quality shipping, safer seas and cleaner oceans, i supported the report as it comes with new rules on delegated and implementing powers that can make a greater contribution to maritime safety oversight. although some progress has already been made in the transport of cargo and passengers by sea and eu waters are generally safer than in the past, i welcome all eu initiatives aimed at improving environmental controls, ship construction and maintenance, seafarer training, vessel monitoring and maritime surveillance. although the preparation of new proposals in the field of shipping has made considerable progress, i expect that at the level of the member states there will be harmonisation of legislation which will lead to the development of a genuine european maritime area.
in writing − if you have the aim of the proposal is to promote and enforce the rules on the inspection of the technical condition of motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection. the proposal also improves the application of the roadworthiness test, in particular in cases where the technical condition of a vehicle poses an immediate threat to road safety. measures to this end include, for example, temporary withdrawal or permanent cancellation of the registration of a vehicle. the proposal submitted at the same time requires member states, when issuing a new registration certificate, to mutually recognise the validity of the roadworthiness certificate if a vehicle is re-registered in another member state or if there has been a change of ownership of the vehicle and a new registration is necessary. the aim should also be to comply with the regulations and to reduce the administrative burden.
in writing. − member states will be required to keep data on all vehicles registered in their territory in electronic databases. they will facilitate the exchange of information between member states, thereby helping to combat the trade in stolen vehicles and facilitating the verification of the validity of vehicle inspection certificates from other member states. effective exchange of information through electronic databases will help ensure that cars on the roads of the european union comply with the safety requirements. i supported the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. − the inspection of motor vehicles is essential for safe road traffic. more than five people die every day on europe's roads in accidents caused by technical failures. a vehicle may only be sold if it complies with the requirements of the safety, environmental and type-approval regulations. all vehicles with a european type-approval are required to be registered for the first time in the eu. after this approval, vehicles in use on the road shall be subject to periodic roadworthiness tests. means such as the temporary withdrawal of a vehicle's licence or its deletion from the vehicle register can make it more effective to screen out motor vehicles whose technical condition poses a direct risk to road safety. in order to facilitate vehicle identification, we also need to create a european electronic database linked to national databases. not all member states have adequate regulation of measures following the sale of vehicles. we need to ensure that vehicles that are re-registered in another member state are automatically deleted from the original register. i voted in favour of this report to allow the above reforms to be implemented.
in writing − the increase in mobility and scientific and technological progress in transport development are forcing us to address specific problems that affect all eu countries. despite the successes achieved by the eu under previous eu road transport programmes, it is not possible to be completely satisfied with the situation. i therefore welcomed the report that the commission is presenting, the basic objective of which is to contribute to improving road safety and environmental protection. i think it is particularly important that if we are to meet the ep resolution on european road safety for 2011-2020, we need to do a little more than we have done so far. the disparity in rules and controls, the different methods and deadlines, the expected increase in road traffic, these are just some of the elements which, in my view, are causing a certain chaos in european transport. i expect the new legislation to harmonise the legislation on registration certificates for vehicles registered in the community and to create electronic registers of records which should contain all the information on vehicle registration.
in writing on 20 july 2010, the european commission adopted the political guidelines for road safety. to achieve the original objective of reducing road fatalities by 50% between 2010 and 2020, the commission has proposed, among other things, a two-pronged strategy for safer vehicles: harmonisation/strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests and a study on the provision of a european electronic platform to harmonise the exchange of vehicle data. i consider it extremely important to ensure a strict and clear legal framework on liability for the technical condition of commercial vehicles. it is important that those parts of vehicles which affect their proper technical condition are regularly checked.
in writing − maximum road safety must be a priority across europe. transport is cross-border in nature, so we must ensure that the same standards are set in each member state. the number of vehicles found not to comply with the technical requirements for vehicle capability during roadside checks is alarming. the differences between member states and their legislation in this area are enormous. setting a uniform framework will not be easy. however, i am very pleased that we have taken up this task and i believe that by approving mrs sehnalo's report we will be one step closer to making europe's roads safer. the responsibility of the state for its territory conflicts with the need to harmonise the rules for checking the fitness of commercial vehicles. flexibility is another controversial issue that we have to address. to what extent can rules be imposed on member states for the inspection of these vehicles? nordic countries need stricter standards for winter preparation of vehicles, such as the black sea countries. for these reasons, i support the effort to establish basic rules for the inspection of commercial vehicles, as well as the initiatives to introduce a risk assessment system at european level.
in writing − road transport is one of the eu's key sectors, as the road transport sector produces around 11% of eu gdp and employs some 16 million people. although road vehicles have undergone significant technological developments, transport is responsible for 25% of all co2 emissions and 75 human lives lost every day on european roads. i support the report because, as a passenger car driver, i consider roadworthiness testing to be an effective means of ensuring quality transport, and also because the proposals put forward provide for a series of measures aimed at ensuring that vehicles operating on european land roads are technically fit for road safety and environmental protection and do not pose a danger to the driver or other road users. i welcome all the commission's activities, proposals and measures which, by extending and updating the scope of technical inspections, could reduce by 2020 road fatalities by 50% and also reduce the environmental impact of road transport, particularly in terms of co2 emissions, through more extensive and frequent emission controls.
in writing, the commission is proposing new rules on roadworthiness tests in an effort to enhance road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is based on the establishment of common minimum standards for vehicle inspections applicable throughout the eu, while allowing member states to introduce more stringent standards. the proposal also addresses the issue of extending checks to motorcycles and scooters as one of the most numerous and risky groups of road users. it is also important and necessary to test trailers of up to 3,5 tonnes which do not currently fall under the system in force in the european union.
in writing. − the european parliament called for a revision of vehicle inspection rules which would help to improve road safety. motorcycles, some trailers and caravans will also be subject to regular checks in the future. mandatory checks on motorcycles should be introduced from 2016. the minimum rules should be extended to trailers weighing more than two tonnes and caravans weighing more than 750 kg. the rules for trailers weighing less than 3,5 tonnes will not be changed. road checks on commercial vehicles should be more effective and risk-related. at the same time, the maintenance of minimum requirements in the area of initial inspections for cars was approved. these should be carried out four years after the date of the first registration of the vehicle and every two years thereafter. i supported the motion for a resolution.
in writing − the inspection of the technical condition of motor vehicles is part of a wider regulatory framework covering vehicles throughout their life cycle from approval, through registration, inspections and scrapping. i think the whole process should be more efficient, less expensive and less administrative for the average citizen. i support the report because it contains complementary proposals and measures which can significantly improve road safety, the environment, the protection of public health and, where appropriate, reduce pollution or damage to land communications. i regret that despite the results achieved by the inspection of the technical condition of motor vehicles and their trailers, accidents on the roads still occur, which are caused by the poor technical condition of vehicles, amounting to some 2 000 fatal injuries and many more injuries that do not end in death each year. i also welcome the tightening of the rules for two- and three-wheel vehicles, which represent the most vulnerable group of road users.
as a renewable resource, clean, high-quality water is an indispensable component of the environment and also has an important place in the economic and industrial life of each member state. water policy is gaining new strategic importance in the context of global challenges to access to quality water resources. european union citizens are also increasingly aware of the importance of maintaining water purity in relation to its impact on human health and are expressing legitimate concerns about the state of water in individual member states. it is the eu's responsibility to respond to such concerns and to put in place an adequate monitoring system. the public should be informed in an appropriate and timely manner of the results obtained. water management, however, is based on water conservation. i agree with the gradual reduction of emissions of priority substances and, in particular, with the cessation of emissions of toxic bioaccumulative and persistent substances into the aquatic environment. in my view, it is also appropriate to monitor certain endocrine disrupting substances, so-called endocrine disruptors, which have a negative impact on our health.
written − the water framework directive establishes a list of priority substances that pose a significant risk to the eu's aquatic environment. in order to achieve good chemical status, the environmental quality standards established for these substances must be met. the commission proposal adds 15 new substances to the list, sets environmental quality standards for seven existing priority substances and introduces specific provisions for substances that behave as ubiquitous persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic substances. it is appropriate to consider that the proposed amendments could clarify and make the directive more effective in terms of achieving good surface water status in the eu, while also facilitating the implementation of the directive by the member states.
in writing − despite some improvements in recent years in the area of water quality, the situation regarding priority substances, which form the basis for the assessment of chemical status under the water framework directive, is not satisfactory. i believe that the problems of water pollution are of concern to all of us, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution which, as part of the update, adds 15 chemicals to the list of 33 pollutants to be monitored and controlled in eu surface waters. water pollution is now a global problem, and in many cases it is a major cause of death and disease. the statistics show that 14,000 people die each day as a result of water pollution. in the light of some global phenomena, which are increasingly also occurring in europe, i would like to point out some worrying trends that are related not only to water scarcity and water efficiency, but also to water quality. apart from demographic trends, i consider that exceptional events (such as floods) are a very serious matter, and their number is increasing in an increasing number of eu member states. therefore, we must also increase efforts in the removal and control of chemical pollution in water, which should be directed towards the progressive reduction of priority substances in water.
in writing. − environmental quality standards specify the maximum concentration of a given pollutant or group of pollutants in water and its deposits. it shall not be exceeded in order to ensure the protection of public health and the environment. the list of priority pollutants is valid for the whole eu. it has been expanded to include 12 new hazardous substances. the new legislation also introduces a list of potential pollutants to be monitored. it will also feature three pharmaceuticals for the first time. if regular inspections show that they have a negative impact on the aquatic environment, these substances will be included in the priority list. these are two hormonal products found in contraceptives and one painkiller. the maximum permitted concentrations, which are defined in the framework of environmental quality standards (eqs), will apply to new substances included in the priority list from 2018. to this end, member states will be required to draw up and submit to the commission by 2018 supplementary programmes of measures and monitoring programmes.
in writing − if you have in order to enforce and simplify administration without weakening the commission's control, council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the treaty establishing the european community to certain categories of horizontal state aid authorises the commission to declare, by means of regulations, that certain types of state aid are compatible with the common market and are exempt from the notification requirement. the proposal to include certain new categories in the delegated regulation does not foresee an immediate block exemption for all of these categories, nor does it imply that all measures within a given category will constitute a block exemption in their entirety. instead, it allows the commission to adopt block exemptions gradually, when the experience gained will be sufficient to enable the commission to define clear compatibility criteria for certain types of aid measures, while ensuring that the impact on competition and trade between member states is limited.
written − the blue growth report calls for a new policy approach to the maritime economy, focusing on two fundamental issues: firstly, the need to ensure that the workforce has the necessary skills to achieve employment growth in this area; secondly, the aim is to ensure the sustainability of 'blue growth' without harming the fragile marine environment. the report contains strategic recommendations for all economic activities linked to blue growth, in particular dealing with ship repair and construction, maritime and coastal tourism, blue energy, fisheries and aquaculture, marine mineral extraction and blue biotechnologies. in order to meet the commitments under this issue, it is desirable to ensure coordination and synergies between existing policies and the development of new initiatives and instruments at eu level.
in writing − if you have with the crisis and high unemployment, as it turned out, comes a loss of competitiveness in the market. the eu needs a model of economic growth and, above all, wider cooperation between sectors. we also need to pay attention to marine biotechnology. the potential for maritime transport and tourism is still largely untapped. it is up to us to put in place framework measures such as integrated coastal zone management, exchange of information and best practice. creating half a million jobs in this promising area is a concrete way of fighting unemployment and shaping sustainable growth in the eu. to support these measures, we need to create financial mechanisms focused on the marine economy in cooperation between the private and public sectors. however, in applying any measures, we must not forget to protect the environment and the areas that are close to the coastal zones. blue growth cannot exist without a common maritime culture. it is impossible to develop the maritime sector without specialists in this field. maritime vocational schools are losing their appeal and a maritime career is not attractive to the younger generation. as a member of the committee on education and culture, i believe that an integrated maritime policy and strategy must be put in place in the field of education alongside economic measures in the field of maritime transport and tourism.
in many countries, cooperatives are the backbone of the economy and in some are even considered as a new alternative. cooperatives are more resilient than traditional enterprises in times of crisis, which has also been reflected positively in some regions of the european union. the cooperative model has a high capacity to adapt to change, to restructure its production programme in order to survive in the market and, above all, to maintain the trust of the people. i supported the report because it not only highlights the achievements and importance of cooperatives for the european economy, but also makes concrete proposals to be adopted at different levels of government in the context of the conversion of enterprises hit by the crisis. i expect the commission and the member states to review their legislation on cooperatives and adopt measures that will facilitate not only access to the widest possible range of business support services for cooperatives, but also access to financial mechanisms at european union level.
the advantages of cooperatives are particularly evident in the social sphere, as they combine the pursuit of profit with solidarity. the cooperative model has proven itself in the eu over the decades. the evidence is that there are now 160,000 cooperatives owned by 123 million members, employing about 5.5 million people. the contribution of cooperatives to the gdp of the member states is estimated at up to five per cent on average. in the context of the crisis, i would also like to highlight the creation of jobs in the regions in the industrial and service sectors. however, cooperatives that create a suitable working environment for the employment of disabled people deserve special attention. in order to make it easier for cooperatives to find a place in the public interest, whether in social or health matters, we need to think about creating a favourable legal framework. their establishment and operation should bring their benefits to the greatest possible number of citizens of the european union.
in writing − cooperatives, together with other social economy enterprises, play a crucial role in the european economy, especially in times of crisis, because they combine profitability with solidarity, create high-quality jobs, strengthen social, economic and regional cohesion and produce social capital. the report further notes that social economy enterprises should benefit from a clearer and more coherent legislative framework, while taking due account of the rich diversity of social economy institutions and their specific characteristics. it is justified to create services for start-up cooperatives to support the creation of new cooperatives. it is equally important to support initiatives promoting the cooperative model among new potential entrepreneurs at both national and european level.
in writing − the oceans and seas surrounding europe offer a wide range of opportunities to achieve the europe 2020 objectives in the areas of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and the fight against climate change. i voted in favour of the report because if we really want to ensure the expansion of the blue economy and its sustainability and achieve good environmental status, we need to come up with new topics and solutions that will create opportunities to exploit the untapped potential of europe's oceans and seas and coasts. i therefore welcome all the proposals that the commission is coming up with and i believe that in the future these measures will bring us sustainable blue growth. while much of the underwater world is still largely unexplored to our knowledge, i would like to acknowledge the progress and results achieved through blue growth, particularly in the areas of health, cosmetics and industrial biomaterials. to improve and further advance the blue growth process, i expect the eu and the member states to create more space for the use of blue energy, aquaculture, tourism, marine minerals and blue biotechnology.
in writing − i supported the report on support for cooperatives because i believe that it is precisely in times of economic crisis that more attention needs to be paid to smes, family businesses and cooperatives. cooperatives have had a significant social dimension since their inception. it brings people together to help each other. it is one of the practical expressions of human solidarity. and while i may not agree with all the proposals made by the rapporteur, i would be pleased if its adoption would help to open up a debate on cooperatives, their advantages and benefits, but also the difficulties they face, whether in terms of attracting investment or unnecessary bureaucratic burdens.
i voted in favour of the report because i consider it to be very important and, above all, topical. it is very difficult to overestimate the importance of the beauty of nature for our culture and for a full quality of life. simply put, we can no longer imagine our existence today without the living world around us. but what we can already say with certainty is that in the last 50 years, humans have burdened and changed ecosystems faster and more severely than at any time in human history. the urgency of tackling the ecosystem problem is also reflected in the reports and proposals submitted. i agree that europe needs to change its approach to the bioeconomy and the way we live. i support all eu actions taken to promote innovation and new technologies based on biological materials and resources. i expect the european union and the member states to change more radically their approach to the production, consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources in the interests of the progress and sustainability of the bioeconomy.
the bioeconomy provides an innovative and efficient approach to the use of natural resources, which are facing increasing pressure due to the rapid increase in the world population associated with a strong increase in food demand. efficient production throughout the chain can be achieved by appropriate education programmes for producers, but also for consumers, and by creating an incentive legal framework. the intelligent and sensitive management of natural resources is more environmentally friendly and at the same time offers new prospects for regional and rural development. the bioeconomy also has a high potential to bring increased employment to millions of people living in rural areas and it should be stressed that this is also the skilled work of top professionals who will be able to put into practice the latest knowledge from different disciplines and thus also opens up the possibility for new fields of study and training programmes, so to speak tailored to each region. the european union and its member states are thus strengthening their competitive edge in biotechnology on a global scale.
written − europe, against the background of the global social, environmental and economic challenges it faces, needs new ways to address the production and consumption, processing, storage, recycling and disposal of biological resources. the commission focuses on the issues to be addressed (food security, sustainable management of natural resources, reduction of dependence on fossil fuels, climate change mitigation and adaptation, job creation and competitiveness) and identifies tools and measures to develop the bio-based sector of the eu economy. the bioeconomy is considered a key element of smart and green growth in the europe 2020 strategy, given its potential to create jobs in rural, coastal and industrial areas, to improve the economic and environmental sustainability of primary production (agriculture and forestry, fisheries and aquaculture) and the processing industry, while reducing the use of non-renewable energy sources.
for the efd group at the outset, it should be said that if we are talking today in the european parliament about the repeated and persistent violation of fundamental human rights, the rights of the european union, as well as the international commitments of hungary, by your government, mr prime minister, it is only because neither the office of the un high commissioner for human rights, nor the council of europe, nor the court of justice of the european union, nor the venice commission, but also the european commission, have been able to restore the functioning of those basic democratic mechanisms that have been gradually destroyed in your country since 2011. but the european community cannot tolerate the kind of governance that alexander grigorievich lukashenko or modern african rulers have in our cultural and civilized environment for long. please understand, mr. orbán, that your powerful control of the judiciary and the media has also been a huge loss of rights for the citizens of your country, who have lost the right to an impartial and objective assessment of their disputes or to free, uncensored access to information. a democratic state, mr orbán, belongs to all its citizens, not just the few who won the last elections. therefore, all these deformations in your state need to be changed gradually.
i do not wish to question the democratic principles of this parliament in any way, but the tavares report makes this parliament a tribunal which simultaneously investigates, accuses and pronounces judgment. it is not the task of the european parliament to propose the constitutions of the member states of the european union. we have been given a mandate by the electorate to consider their interests when adopting european legislation. the courts decide whether the laws have been observed in a particular case. if the commission has doubts as to the compatibility of the laws of a member state with the treaties, it may refer the matter to the european court of justice. similarly, any eu citizen can turn to the european court of human rights. if some colleagues feel that we need a new mechanism to check the commitments of the member states, they should make factual arguments instead of ideological statements.
for the efd group. in my political group, each member will vote individually on the tavares report. each one according to his own judgment, whether this message is good and fit for acceptance or not. as for me, as a person, as a citizen of a country that neighbours hungary, i am convinced that we need to have a stable, transparent and peaceful political environment in hungary, and i assure you that not only slovaks but also other neighbours are willing to help create such an environment in hungary. it is in our common interest and that is why i think that if we find partners on the hungarian side to have a cultivated and reasonable dialogue, we will help create such an environment.
in writing. – many find it awkward that the european parliament is regularly dealing with human rights in third countries but not or just rarely dealing with them within the eu. however, if we think this is the right form to deal with it, it easily becomes a witch hunt; it evokes revulsion and results in the strengthening of euroscepticism. in this case, blaming a member state for legal uncertainty arising as a result of repeated modification of its legislation responding to the requests of the commission, ecj or constitutional court is more than displeasing and bizarre. adopting recommendations which are based on obvious mistakes, like article 71(1) or on the recommendation of the venice commission, which is not even an eu institution, not being a decision-making but rather a counselling body, will have the consequence that we will become ridiculous and lose credibility in the eyes of hungarian citizens. the recommendations in the tavares report are not even closely linked to protection or restoration of human rights; on the contrary, many times they could be considered humiliating. i cannot believe that our aim should be the activation of the lisbon treaty’s article 7(2) based on mistakes, half-truth and fictions.
in writing. mr prime minister, members of the house of representatives! first of all, i would like to congratulate hungary on its exit from the excessive deficit procedure. the good news is that the council of europe general assembly did not agree to launch a monitoring procedure against the country. all of this should be taken into account by the honourable members. i'm sorry that the prime minister had to come to strasbourg for comrade tavares' report. as guardian of the treaties, the european commission is responsible for examining laws and practices in member states which infringe eu law. the ep cannot be a judge, however much some of its colleagues may dislike it. mr. tavares is calling on the hungarian parliament to overstep its authority, while making the european parliament itself a forum for judgment. the commission must act independently and without political bias, and the commissioner responsible's thematic and political bias is a disappointment. it is very important, as mr tavares has said, that mutual trust between the member states should be the driving force. this is all lost when a member state is attacked on a daily basis for any action it takes. balance and a fair standard are only on paper, but in the field of fundamental rights protection these principles must be applied with particular care. we're driving eu scepticism to the wall with this kind of debate. the report also seriously infringes the principle of subsidiarity. all the arguments are in favour of rejecting this politically biased report which ignores part of the parliamentary procedures.
floods in europe have been responsible for the loss of dozens of lives and billions of euros in damage in recent years. this year, in addition to germany, austria, the czech republic, poland and hungary, the devastating forces of flooding also affected slovakia, causing millions of euros in damage. in such situations, the union's response needs to be prompt and targeted. the european solidarity fund should help the affected areas as quickly and as efficiently as possible. in the case of slovakia, building flood protection systems has also proved to be effective. our experience also shows that there is an urgent need to finance flood protection programmes and to step up cooperation between member states, including cooperation in cross-border risk management.
the recent natural disaster that struck central europe has had disastrous consequences. it was one of the worst floods in history. the floods caused loss of life and enormous material damage. in addition to serious damage, they have created public health risks for our citizens. in the european union, we still talk a lot about how we are solidarity and how we need solidarity. i think now is the right time to affirm and confirm that these words can be translated into action. the huge economic and social losses as well as the environmental damage must be compensated. it is now up to the commission to release funds to help the affected member states. we have a solidarity fund that was created for this very purpose. the mitigation of the damage requires a rapid and efficient mobilisation of the funds from this aid instrument. all victims have the right to our help and to it being truly effective. however, good national recovery plans must also be submitted.
the common system of a financial transaction tax is one of the effective instruments to combat speculation, but also to overcome the crisis. the tax would be introduced on all financial transactions between financial institutions, at least one of which is established in a member state of the european union. the financial sector, which has so far been under-taxed by the exemption of most financial services from value added tax, simply has to contribute a much fairer share. by exempting financial services from vat, financial institutions will save up to eur 18 billion a year. the eu will spend a staggering €4.6 trillion to rescue the financial sector in times of crisis. the introduction of the system would raise about eur 57 billion per year. this revenue would be shared between the union and the individual member states. moreover, the system would discourage risky and speculative financial operations and complement measures aimed at preventing future crises.
in writing. i am very pleased that this proposal is finally going through its second reading after more than six years of negotiations, and i firmly believe that it will be adopted. the main objective of the amended commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 on investigations by the european anti-fraud office is to strengthen the procedural rights of persons concerned by the office's investigations, as well as to increase the effectiveness of the investigation and to improve cooperation with its partners, which are the institutions and bodies of the european union, all member states and, of course, international organisations. another important aspect of the proposal is that it clarifies the role of the olaf supervisory committee. in the meantime, he had questioned whether his right of supervision had been respected and whether the rights of persons concerned by the administrative investigation had been observed. these are serious concerns that need to be clarified. it must be absolutely clear what investigative means the office can actually use. the obligation to respect the fundamental rights and procedural guarantees of persons under investigation is an absolute matter of course! the amended regulation includes the necessary safeguards. we must recognise the importance of striking a fair balance between the role of the office and the rights of the individuals concerned by this inquiry. the proposal as it stands is, in my view, a good compromise and i hope it will be adopted.
in writing. the tax loss in europe exceeds the total amount spent by member states on healthcare and is more than four times the amount spent on education the eu is the world's largest consumer of tobacco products, with a market share of around 10% in the eu. the eu's tax system is based on a system of taxation that is based on the principle of proportionality. the commission has also proposed that the member states should simplify their tax systems and strengthen their tax systems in order to avoid the introduction of excessive taxation. since the introduction of vat, the model of vat has been to reduce the tax burden on the consumer. the choice of the most appropriate method of treatment has remained unchanged. it is essential to link commercial transactions and tax authorities in real time in order to the key to detecting fraud is greater transparency in the joint investigation. the commission should take action to ensure a single point of reference for transparency in relation to the the commission must take all necessary measures to establish an effective system of recovery of the fraud. the commission should also take into account the developments in the current reform. the european parliament was informed of the progress made.
in writing. it appears that despite the number of measures, policies, mechanisms and tools adopted to address serious cross-border health threats, there is a need for further eu action that can minimise the negative effects of a potential public health crisis. i support the report because the commission is putting forward proposals that can help to strengthen the union's ability to respond flexibly enough to cross-border health threats. in today's globalised society, diseases can spread across europe and the world in a matter of hours, which is why i highly value the early warning and early response system for the prevention and control of contagious diseases, which allows member states to send alerts on events with potential eu impact. communicable diseases and micro-organisms know no borders and can pose a serious threat to europeans if they are not tackled in time. in this context, i expect the commission to cooperate better with the relevant international organisations and third countries on the occurrence or re-emergence of communicable diseases, and on the coordination and effectiveness of the response to serious health threats.
in writing. − if you have on 27 june 2013, a political agreement was reached at the highest political level between parliament, the council presidency and the commission on the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014 to 2020. the negotiations were long and arduous and in this context it is appropriate to acknowledge the considerable efforts of the irish presidency to reach the agreement. however, the overall level of the mff has not yet reached european policy objectives in seeking to ensure the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the current level of resources may not be sufficient to cover eu expenditure. moreover, it is clear that member states continue to seem to underestimate the role of the eu budget and its justification in fiscal coordination across the eu as such. for this reason, it remains necessary and important to give due attention to this issue.
in writing. − if you have at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles. the 1958 agreement on motor vehicle type-approval plays a key role and allows manufacturers to operate a common set of standards for type-approval, knowing that their products will be recognised in many countries on different continents as they comply with their national legislation. the aim of the proposal is to simplify and speed up the commission's procedure for voting on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time lag in the adoption of these acts by the unece. this step is also important because the eu vehicle type-approval system is now increasingly dependent on unece regulations replacing eu legislation.
in writing. − the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is developing internationally harmonised requirements to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the parties to the revised 1958 agreement, while ensuring that such vehicles offer a high level of safety and environmental protection. the aim of the proposal is to simplify and speed up the commission's procedure for voting on unece regulations on behalf of the union, thus reducing the time lag in the adoption of these acts by the unece. the participation of the union in the work of the unece helps to develop and strengthen the international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles and thus contributes to facilitating international trade in motor vehicles.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to be mobilised through a flexibility mechanism with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. the fund was established to provide additional support to redundant workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. it is provided that 0,35% of the annual maximum amount may be granted each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. the commission therefore proposed to make available eur 750 000.
in writing. − if you have one of the central objectives of the amended commission proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 concerning investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is to strengthen the procedural rights of persons concerned by olaf investigations, to increase the effectiveness of olaf investigations and also to seek to improve cooperation with its partners, which are the eu institutions and bodies, member states or international organisations. the proposal also aims to clarify the role of the olaf supervisory committee and to establish an exchange of views at political level with the other institutions on olaf's political priorities. after more than six years of negotiations, the draft new olaf regulation is now being put to the vote at second reading.
in writing. − since 1999, investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) have returned to the budget over eur 1 billion of money laundered or otherwise wrongly obtained through illegal activities. i see the improvement in olaf's functioning in deepening cooperation with other eu and member state institutions and bodies and in safeguarding fundamental rights during investigations. the violation of fundamental rights during the investigation appears to be a serious deficiency incompatible with eu values. administrative investigations must meet the highest standards in safeguarding fundamental rights and freedoms, since by their nature and purpose they are similar to, and may ultimately lead to, criminal investigations. therefore, it is necessary to provide for certain procedural safeguards, also with regard to the admissibility of the evidence obtained, and to require that they be strictly observed.
in writing. − collective investment undertakings in transferable securities (ucits) are investment funds which have been set up in accordance with the ucits directive (adopted in 1985). once registered in one eu country, ucits funds can be freely traded throughout the eu. the ucits directive is currently under revision. it should be amended to take account of market developments and the experience gained so far by market participants and supervisors, in particular with a view to eliminating differences between national provisions on the obligations and liability of depositaries, remuneration policies and sanctions. the deficiencies identified can only be addressed through action at european level. therefore, the proposed measures or their objectives can be better achieved at union level as a whole.
in writing. − the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) created the first major global carbon market and set a common eu-wide price for carbon. this market is generally considered to be liquid and based on a well-functioning infrastructure. part of this infrastructure concerns the auctioning of emission allowances, for which implementing powers are conferred on the commission by the directive. the commission has already started to implement them and that regulation has been amended several times. it is not specified how the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned are to be allocated over the trading period. for the sake of legal certainty and market predictability, it appears important to clarify that the commission may, in exceptional circumstances, adjust the auction schedule in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
in writing. − i am not convinced that it was right for parliament to support the freezing of part of the emission allowances. while i acknowledge that we have moved on from the original proposal, which we have already rejected, the whole policy of encouraging investment in low-carbon technologies is costing europe more than it is benefiting. the emissions trading system simply reduces the competitiveness of our companies by raising the prices of energy and production. as a result, europe is losing many jobs to china and other asian countries. moreover, the surplus of emission allowances that this proposal addressed demonstrates the inability of politicians and bureaucrats to plan for the development of the economy. the fact that parliament finally adopted the proposal in its amended form is a sad testimony to the persistent illusion of the commission and most of my colleagues that they can 'manage' complex processes such as the economy and the weather.
in writing. − the commission's proposal is a response to recent crises such as the 2009 avian influenza pandemic, the 2010 volcanic ash cloud and the 2011 e. coli outbreak. it aims to strengthen measures to protect the population by addressing cross-border health threats more efficiently and effectively. the proposal is based on an early warning and systematic response system. at the same time, it is equally important to make efforts to strengthen the role of the health protection committee and also to take steps towards better preparation and coordination of the plans to be drawn up in cooperation with the commission and the member states.
in writing. − the poor experience of dealing with public health crises in the union in recent years points to a general lack of preparedness and coordination at european level. infectious diseases and other health threats know no borders, and this is doubly true in a globalised world where people and goods, including food and medicine, move freely. crisis situations such as pandemics, industrial or natural disasters therefore also need to be effectively coordinated at european level in order to prevent serious health risks and loss of life. good governance is based on preparedness and a coherent and coordinated approach at regional, national and european level. in this respect, a rapid and effective communication strategy is key to avoid dramatic consequences for people as well as economic losses. national preparedness plans must therefore also take into account the european dimension and include the organisation of cooperation with other member states and the world health organisation. in conclusion, i would stress that the competence of the european centre for disease prevention and control must not be limited to communicable diseases.
in writing, the european union has experienced a number of major health shocks in recent years. the 2009 h1n1 influenza pandemic, the 2008 milk contamination and the 2010 volcanic dust eruption in iceland only highlighted the shortcomings of the european crisis management system. the coordination of national systems has also proved to be insufficient. the current mechanisms require deeper reform and enhanced cooperation between member states if they are to be able to cope with international crises and reduce the negative impact on the health of european citizens. it is also essential that they are applicable to all types of threats, such as chemical, biological or environmental. i hope that by introducing such a tool, we will also be better prepared to face cross-border threats to our health in the future. first of all, it is important to properly assess the risks arising from a given crisis, to have independent experts, to cooperate with veterinary units and to have prepared plans at european level on how to proceed in the event of a sanitary crisis. by coordinating our actions, we will ensure a quick and effective resolution of the situation. the main focus must be on protecting our citizens and fighting poverty. i am therefore very pleased that the proposed compromise also creates a legal framework for better access to medicines on the european market and for the purchase of vaccines and medicines in europe, with the aim of reducing medicines prices across the board.
in writing. - we all remember recent crises, like the h1n1 flu pandemic in 2009, the volcanic ash cloud in 2010, or e. coli in 2011. in addressing them, some shortcomings of the interstate early warning system have been revealed. to prevent such situations from recurring in the future, the commission has presented a proposal for a decision laying down measures and structures to effectively protect citizens across europe from cross-border health threats. at a time when high levels of globalisation are resulting in the rapid spread of communicable diseases over long distances, effective communication between stakeholders is a key condition for managing these situations. this concerns, on the one hand, the dissemination of information among health organisations and government bodies, but also the adequate information of citizens about possible risks and effective prevention. in european countries where healthcare provision is partly or wholly in private hands, support from public authorities is essential to maximise the protection of the population. only then can the crisis be avoided by exploiting it to the advantage of business and to the detriment of the population.
in writing. − the recent global economic and financial crisis has had a serious negative impact on member states' economies and public finances. in 2011, the commission stated that further taxation of the financial sector was under discussion at all levels. it has sought to ensure that the financial sector is fairly shared in the costs of the crisis and is taxed in a fair way in the future compared to other sectors, so that financial institutions are not incentivised to engage in excessive risk-taking. it also aimed to complement regulatory measures aimed at preventing future crises and generating additional revenue for general budgets or for specific policy purposes.
in writing. − the fact that the financial transaction tax will not be uniformly applied in all 27 member states but only in 11 of them means that special attention needs to be paid to tackling possible tax avoidance and evasion. it is necessary to ensure maximum harmonisation and efficiency of the collection mechanism, as shortcomings in one member state would undermine the success of the tax and could even lead to arbitrage within the financial transaction tax area. the solution is proposed through binding delegated and implementing acts, but also through the establishment of an expert working group composed of representatives of the participating member states. i supported the measures proposed.
in writing. − the european central bank (ecb) was established on 1 july 1998. the european monetary system was replaced by the exchange rate mechanism, the establishment of which was agreed on 16 june 1997 by the european council resolution on the introduction of an exchange rate mechanism in the third stage of economic and monetary union. latvia submitted a formal request for a convergence assessment on 5 march 2013. in view of the legal compatibility and fulfilment of the convergence criteria, as well as a number of other factors, it is clear that latvia fulfils the necessary conditions for adopting the euro.
in writing. − if you have road traffic accidents are one of the most common reasons for hospitalization of eu citizens under the age of 45. many serious injuries result in lifelong health problems or permanent disability. it is necessary and necessary to apply without delay the full range of existing legislation and measures in order to reduce the impact of collisions while increasing the safety of road users by reducing the number of serious injuries. it is also important that individual member states place a strong emphasis on post-traumatic stress disorder care in their health policies and further improve the quality of long-term hospital care, post-hospital care and rehabilitation, including trauma and psychological care for road traffic accident victims and witnesses. all these actions should aim to help road accident victims to improve their quality of life. education programmes on road safety issues are also of equal importance.
in writing. − the number of people who have been injured, permanently injured or lost their lives in road accidents is increasing every year. only through appropriate and proactive policies can we stop this growing trend. our first priority must be to reduce the number of casualties to a minimum. roads must be safe for all road users. it is important to realize that when it comes to accidents, we are not talking about imaginary numbers and unknown statistics. behind every accident is a specific person who either caused the accident or was the victim of it. i therefore support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on road safety for the period 2011-2020, namely the target of reducing road accidents by 40% in the following period. this is a challenge to us personally, as well as to each member state, to put in place measures to ensure that drivers, cyclists and pedestrians respect the rules of the road. in accidents, it is also common for the participants themselves to be unable to provide first aid. i believe that the promotion and promotion of the european emergency number 112, as well as the mandatory installation of public ecall systems in vehicles, is the right step to save the lives of road traffic victims.
in writing. − the european union, building on the teu, is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. a member state's breach of the union's common principles and values cannot be justified by national traditions or expressions of national identity. hungary is also a party to the international covenant on civil and political rights and other international legal instruments and is therefore bound by them to respect and apply international democratic principles. efforts should also be made to strengthen the mutual trust which the union, its citizens and the member states must have if those instruments and treaties are to form the legal basis of a genuine, fair and open europe which respects fundamental rights.
in writing. − in view of the fact that central europe has recently been struck by some of the worst floods in history, causing loss of life, suffering and enormous damage, a motion for a resolution on the european union solidarity fund is being prepared in this context, in an effort to help the member states concerned. in order to mitigate the damage caused by the floods, the situation requires the rapid and efficient mobilisation of funds following the submission of recovery plans by the national and regional authorities of each member state affected by the floods. the european union thus has the opportunity to demonstrate the principle of solidarity on which it is founded, by supporting the most deprived, those who need our help.
in writing. - i think it's wrong to associate one extreme storm or more frequent rainfall over a period with climate change. however, if extreme events occur over a multi-year period, such as the undoubted 2013 floods in central europe, which followed the heavy rainfall in late may and early june 2013, this can already be linked to climate change. since the 1970s, floods have been among the most frequent natural disasters in europe, affecting individual areas with unprecedented intensity and rapidity. based on these facts, it can be assumed and expected that unless something more substantial in the area of climate change happens, we will continue to fight against a natural element that leaves damage to property, health and lives of people, animals, the environment and cultural heritage. i am very pleased that the eu has included this item in the ep's agenda, because if we do not do something to stop climate change, the world we live in will change irreversibly, and with it, undoubtedly, the way we live our lives, which we are already used to, so to speak. i realize that climate change is not a simple process that can be stopped overnight. but what we can do not only for ourselves, but for future generations, is change the way we live, the way we produce and use energy.
in writing. − financial assistance for people hit by natural disasters must be rapid in the first place. because oftentimes, these are people who lose everything in an instant. it is therefore important that the eu response is also as effective as possible. it is therefore necessary to simplify the rules for the functioning of the solidarity fund. these are exceptional situations where payments for affected areas should be released as soon as a member state requests aid. this year, floods hit germany, austria, and the czech republic, but also slovakia, hungary, and poland. solidarity with the victims is the expression of the true meaning of european unity and cooperation.
in writing. − the final aim of the report presented is to express political support to the european commission with a view to the legislative proposal on banking structure to be published in october. the essential objective is to reach an agreement stating that commercial activities must be separated from commercial activities within the same bank. in order to ensure maximum support for this report, a number of compromise amendments were drawn up, ensuring a high level of structural reforms. on the other hand, the division of commercial and business activities should be left to the discussion of the legislative proposal due to be published this september.
in writing. − from the beginning of 2008 to the end of 2011, over eur 1.6 trillion of state aid was used for the eu financial sector, i.e. 12.8% of eu gdp. of this, some eur 1080 billion went to guarantees, eur 320 billion to recapitalisation measures, eur 120 billion to write-off impaired assets and eur 90 billion to liquidity measures. this rescue has led to a significant increase in the debt ratio in the eu member states. even after five years, eu member states are providing implicit guarantees to banks, amounting to eur 100 billion in 2012, which bring cost savings to banks. fourteen european banking groups own 43% of the european banking market. the ratio of the size of banks to eu gdp has tripled since 2000. this requires a series of structural reform measures for banks, which i have supported.
in writing. − if you have the proper functioning of any nation's economy depends on the sound functioning of its banking system. the current legal framework continues to present many shortcomings and obvious weaknesses which clearly speak in favour of a well-conceived reform of the overall structure of the banking sector. the change in structure can prevent systemic failure and other pitfalls affecting the stability and efficiency of the banking system. increasing transparency and the introduction of supervision will, in my view, also prevent excessive risk-taking and long-term indebtedness. i believe that the reform of the banking system and the demand for certain guarantees are justified in view of the fact that member states have had to invest hundreds of billions of euros to rescue banks. however, the subsidisation of banks is illogical and unacceptable in the long term and, in particular, in a functioning market economy. the recovery of banks must therefore be pursued by increasing competition in the sector, which will improve competitiveness and efficiency while paying more attention to customer needs.
in writing. − the fight against fraud and other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the union is an obligation of the commission and the member states, enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). it appears justified for the commission to examine the existing link between fraud reports submitted by member states and the need for harmonised criminal law establishing a common definition of fraudulent behaviour and criminal offences in the area of the protection of the financial interests of the union. although the commission takes all the positive initiatives, anti-corruption policies are mostly passive. in this context, there is also a need to strengthen the fight against fraud more broadly and to hold perpetrators accountable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it allows us to assess not only the positive results but also to point out the shortcomings and weaknesses that continue to harm the eu's financial interests. i welcomed the report that in the area of the protection of the eu's financial interests, irregularities had been reduced and the recovery of eu funds unduly paid had improved in 2011. while we could be satisfied with the overall state of protection of the eu's financial interests, i would like to point out the shortcomings associated with the heterogeneous approach of individual member states to reporting fraud and other irregularities, which leads to doubts about the adequacy of their national reporting systems. i expect the commission to develop uniform reporting principles for all member states and to ensure that comparable and reliable data are collected that reflect the real situation in each member state. i welcome all the union's actions to eliminate fraud and recover unduly paid amounts from final beneficiaries in the area of cohesion policy, but at the same time i expect better cooperation with the member states and a reduction in the many times lengthy procedures.
in writing. − wherever public money is allocated, there is a risk of fraud and corruption. this also applies to the use of eu funds. however, i do not think it is right to introduce 'sensitivity thresholds' in fraud investigations which de facto allow some cases not to be opened at all. it's like telling a thief: you can steal with impunity, but don't take too much. this notion of justice is completely unacceptable to me. i am therefore pleased that in this report parliament strongly asks the director of olaf to stop applying the threshold approach in setting the priorities of the investigation. the workload is no excuse to turn a blind eye to crime.
in writing. − if you have in june 2005, the commission adopted a plan for an integrated internal control framework. it has set itself the objective of fulfilling its commitment to achieve a positive declaration of assurance (das) before the end of its mandate. the implementation of the action plan started in 2006. at the beginning of 2009, the commission concluded that the plan was fully completed. however, the action plan cannot be seen as fully satisfactory at first sight, as a positive statement of assurance has not yet been given by the court of auditors. in this context, it therefore appears appropriate to consider the adoption of possible corrective measures.
perhaps today's discussion could have taken on a more concrete dimension if the united states of america, which calls itself our closest partner and friend, had been responsible about what happened. unfortunately, no one in the american administration, not even the american president himself, has said, "i'm sorry this happened", and so we're here today to talk about what the consequences are. the consequences for diplomats... well, frankly, a diplomat kind of counts on the fact that in the diplomatic service, you might find yourself a victim of espionage. but what about the consequences for ordinary citizens? what about those people whose lives were invaded by someone on the internet, through photos, just drilling into their lives? how would we like it if someone we call a friend came into our home when we were not there and secretly went into our home to see what was going on in our lives? i think we should be clear about this... (the chairman interrupts)
in writing. dear colleagues, what is happening in egypt is just a continuation of the revolution. it is noteworthy that a part of the country's citizens did not identify with islamization (although moderate by arab standards). at this dramatic moment, there is no need to stand up to the military on the grounds that it is a coup against the legitimately elected president. his government has brought the country to the brink of civil war, and so the military's move should be seen as a preemptive move. what we can ask in our position is only that the army not establish its own power and government, but present a program of reconciliation, a transition to solid democratic institutions, to a civil constitution, to new elections of parliament and president. and, of course, a realistic economic program to ensure at least the basic standards of living of the citizens. this should be the strategy of mrs. ashton's office and the terms of our financial assistance to egypt.
madam president, i would like to emphasise the significance of the united nations’ arms trade treaty and say that i believe that this treaty should contribute to more transparency and accountability for european arms exports, especially since the eu is one of the world’s largest exporter of arms. we have a responsibility to ensure that these arms do not contribute to further regional instability or intensify internal conflicts. i understand that sometimes it has proven difficult for member states to adhere to the council’s common position because of its various interpretations. this concerns particularly criterion 4 which clearly specifies that member states should deny an export licence if there is a risk that the arms will be used for purposes other than the national defence of the recipient or if there is a risk that the arms will have an adverse effect on regional stability. moreover, we should also have increased transparency in member states’ arms exports and ask for public reports. we should be more considered in our approach to an eu arms control policy that would reinforce other dimensions of the eu external action, such as the promotion of human rights and regional stability. in order to increase the legitimacy of european arms exports, it will be instrumental for the member states to implement strictly the council common position as well as ratifying the arms trade treaty. words on a piece of paper mean little unless implemented.
the 2008 global economic crisis affected the georgian economy with a significant decline in production, budget revenues and growing external financing needs. the provision of further macro-financial assistance will enable the country to cope with the consequences of the crisis and support the recovery of economic growth. the main objectives of the financial assistance are: to cover external financing needs and budgetary expenditure; to promote fiscal consolidation and structural reform, which will contribute to increasing transparency and making public financial management more efficient. it should be noted that georgia has already made significant progress in this regard, in particular in the fight against corruption, which, together with other steps such as reducing the tax burden, has led to an increase in the attractiveness of investment. according to the world bank, georgia is one of the ten most attractive countries in the world for doing business. georgia is still in the process of transformation and, although some political reforms have been successfully adopted, further difficult steps still lie ahead, especially in the area of human rights protection. the year 2013 is a watershed for georgia and its bilateral relations with the eu. the presidential election and subsequent political developments will affect the future direction of the country. our task is to help georgia cope with the consequences of the financial crisis and thus support the country's pro-european orientation. that's why i'm so glad we've reached a compromise.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the introduction of tariffs on imports of agricultural products is a clear violation of the letter and the spirit of bilateral agreements. steps taken by norway can be considered protectionist and prohibitive to trade. the decision goes against one of the fundamental principles of the eu, namely the principle of trade liberalisation. norway, as a member of the european economic area, is bound to respect that principle. furthermore, these restrictions were adopted without any previous consultation with the commission. this is unacceptable, since norway is a country with which the eu has very close economic and political relations. it is also incomprehensible that a country that avoided the negative effects of the economic crisis would want to introduce such measures. we in the committee on international trade call on the norwegian government to withdraw the measures and enter into formal negotiations with the commission to resolve the issue. on a personal note, i sincerely hope that such stratospheric tariffs – 300%, 400% and more – will never be seen again in our region, particularly with a close trading partner such as norway.
in any decent civilized society, caring for vulnerable groups is an integral part of social policy. most european union countries have been developing their systems and mechanisms to provide the necessary assistance to the deprived population for a long time. the deteriorating economic situation has already put a greater burden on the social systems of the member states since 2009, as the number of unemployed continues to grow and the poverty of the population continues to increase. we therefore need to react swiftly to this unfavourable trend and look for further new ways to help the deprived groups to secure at least the basic necessities for a life of dignity. one of the basic needs of every human is access to daily food. and i think that it is precisely in the area of food policy that we have reserves in the union which we could effectively mobilise in these difficult times to improve aid to the deprived groups. european farmers are able to produce enough food to feed the entire population of the union. yet, our fellow citizens often do not have enough money to buy the necessary food. however, the european commission provides subsidies to farmers to keep the land and not generate surplus food. perhaps if, instead of these subsidies, we could buy back such surplus food from farmers and give it away at token prices to charitable and social institutions or health facilities, we could create a mechanism that would eliminate the threat of malnutrition or hunger to the population.
the report by jean lambert draws attention to the problems of vulnerable groups struggling with the consequences of the crisis with the usual thoroughness and common sense. the results of eurofund research show that the crisis has made the poor poorer, and there is no doubt that children are the most affected and vulnerable group. child poverty has serious consequences, especially in the early stages. malnutrition, lack of adequate health care - for example, lack of vaccinations - can cause developmental disorders that are much more burdensome for society to treat or correct. long-forgotten diseases, such as tuberculosis, are reappearing because vaccines are often not free or require expensive drugs to cure. in kindergarten, for example, every year of kindergarten education improves a child's chances of understanding what they read by 10 percent later on, and without that, of course, we can't talk about lifelong learning. access to basic services should not be jeopardised by restrictive measures to such an extent that they impose a multiple burden on public expenditure at a later stage. again, prevention is the cheapest solution, and it is true that the european union cannot solve these problems, but by making good use of the european social fund we can do a lot to alleviate them.
social inequalities in europe's regions are constantly growing and the situation among the most vulnerable groups of the union's population is deteriorating day by day. through pointless cuts and austerity measures, we have made the poor poorer, the vulnerable more vulnerable, and many european citizens lack access to basic health care or social services. low or no income means that people do not have access to even basic services, such as heating. this has extremely negative consequences for vulnerable groups such as the elderly or the sick. the european union's response to the crisis must therefore have a social dimension. government cuts and austerity measures have long and significantly worsened the quality of life of the citizens of the european union. so i ask you, what specific, effective measures have we recently taken that have actually improved the situation in the long run? europeans are skeptical, many live on the edge of poverty far beyond the bounds of human dignity, lack access to medicine, basic services and, today, no jobs.
in writing. − at the 2008 international donor conference, the eu committed to providing macro-financial assistance to georgia in the form of grants. it was committed to granting georgia financial support of eur 46 million in two tranches. the proposal aims at activating the payment of the second amount, as requested by the georgian minister of finance back in 2010. this macro-financial assistance should help georgia to address the economic consequences of the conflict with russia as well as the consequences of the global crisis. in order to provide macro-financial assistance, it is mutually expected that the commission and the georgian authorities should adopt a memorandum of understanding while undertaking the necessary structural reforms.
in writing. − if you have attacks on information systems in particular as organised crime - are on the rise, and at the same time there is growing concern about potential terrorist or politically motivated attacks on information systems which form part of the critical infrastructure of the member states and the union. the information society and the area of freedom are thus under threat and safeguard measures need to be taken at european union level. it is desirable and at the same time seems necessary that individual member states adopt sanctions for attacks on information systems. they should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. only by joint efforts can the threat of attacks against information systems be eliminated or at least mitigated.
in writing. − if you have information systems have become an integral part of social and economic life in recent decades. the security of these systems is even directly linked to the security of states and their citizens. the smooth operation and, in particular, the security of these key systems require the highest possible level of protection, namely protection by criminal law. the harmful effects of computer crime on society must be effectively prevented by the threat of punishment in the context of preventive programmes and by the imposition and enforcement of penalties where the offender has been duly convicted. in order to develop a competitive and innovative internal market, it is desirable to approximate the criminal law provisions in the member states in the field of cyber-attacks and to lay down minimum requirements on the substance of offences and the range of criminal penalties. this will not allow offenders to escape punishment simply by moving to another member state. for the reasons i have given, i support the report on cyber attacks on information systems.
in writing. − reports in the international press in early june 2013 revealed that us authorities are approaching the processing of data of union citizens using us internet service providers. commissioner reding sent a letter to the us side asking for an explanation. reports as of the end of june 2013 indicate that the us authorities systematically monitored the offices of the eu institutions in washington and new york, as well as the premises of the eu institutions in brussels, in particular through the use of wiretapping, the use of electronic implants and antennas, and the infiltration of e-mail and telephone networks. it is important and justified that, given the urgency of the matter, steps are taken to promote the protection of personal data and privacy of staff of the european institutions.
in writing. − the 2014 european parliament elections will be the first elections since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. moreover, it will be all the more important that the european union is now making efforts to take major steps towards the creation of a genuine economic and monetary union based on respect for democratic principles. in view of the enhanced role and powers of parliament, it seems necessary to improve the very process of electing its members and at the same time to bring it more to the fore. the year 2013 is the european year of citizens. it is not only a good opportunity to hear the concerns of european citizens, but also to make them aware of the impact of eu policies on their daily lives and to highlight the importance of their participation in shaping the union. in this context, the forthcoming european parliament elections can further consolidate these efforts.
in writing. − the european parliament elections, to be held from 22 to 25 may 2014, will be the first since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament has, thanks to the treaty of lisbon, significantly strengthened its position within the european institutions and has begun to exert a very active influence on legislation that has a direct impact on the daily lives of the member states. the european parliament and its members, who are the direct representatives of the citizens in brussels, represent the democratic dimension of the union. i have therefore long supported campaigns to encourage citizens to participate in elections and to gain better information about the european parliament, its functions and its benefits. voter awareness must gradually increase, also in the area of purely european issues, since these have a direct impact on the actions in the member states. it is therefore in the interest of every eu citizen to influence public affairs at european level, either directly or through an elected representative. the 2014 european parliament election campaign should therefore be conducted in the spirit of a lively and stimulating debate on the current problems and interests of europeans, taking into account how the european parliament can contribute to tackling specific societal issues at european level and at the same time in the regions.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it is a very specific piece of material, combining practical recommendations with proposals to regulate the course of an electoral campaign. some measures directly interfere with the decision-making autonomy of political parties at european and national level, without being sufficiently justified. these include the requirement of equal representation of women and men on the electoral rolls and the use of the names and logos of european parties, which are completely unknown to the public, on the ballot paper. but the main proposal is the strangest: although the president of the commission is proposed by the european council (i.e. the agreement of all member states) and approved by the european parliament, the report proposes that each european political party nominate its candidate for president of the commission well in advance of the elections and that public debates be organised for these candidates. such a proposal is clearly nonsense, since a member state is represented in the eu council by a government that emerged from a completely different election and may end up proposing a completely different candidate than the european party that wins the majority in the elections. at the same time, the mandate of the legislature and the executive is mixed and elections become opaque to citizens.
in writing. − arms exports and transfers have a significant impact on people's security, human rights, democracy, good governance and socioeconomic development. despite all the measures and joint efforts, arms suppliers continue to target developing countries in particular in their arms sales activities abroad. as a result, the arms trade often threatens developing countries' commitments to the millennium development goals. for this reason, it is imperative to strengthen the european union's policy on the control of exports of military technology and equipment, which should be part of a transparent, effective arms control system.
in writing. − services account for almost three quarters of eu gdp and employment and are essential to maintaining and enhancing its competitiveness. in the context of the ongoing economic crisis, new safeguard measures have been introduced to regulate or restrict trade in services more. the multilateral trading system anchored in the wto remains the most effective framework for achieving open and fair trade at the global level. trade and services are the backbone of the 21st century economy. it is therefore justified and important to give due attention to this issue.
in writing. − the eea agreement provides the basis for equal access for norway to the internal market and is considered by the parties to be mutually beneficial. economic and political relations between the union and norway can be said to be at an excellent level. however, as from 1 january 2013, european exporters exporting to the norwegian market are forced to pay higher duties for certain types of goods. however, such measures seem to be contrary to the principle of a mutual bilateral agreement. for this reason, it also appears justified to consider possible measures that would be taken in the event that norway refuses to change its decision. whereas the union's objective is to protect, where appropriate, jobs and production in the agricultural sector;
in writing. − the resolution aims to follow up the commission's declaration on completing the digital single market (dsm). it contains the specific proposals requested in connection with the commission's draft legislation in areas related to the dsm. this includes, for example, privacy and data protection issues, information and communication technologies, consumers, economic and legal interests, etc. at the same time, amendments were tabled, inter alia, on further reductions in roaming charges, a requirement for universal and equal access to internet services for all citizens, and a proposal highlighting the issue of internet neutrality.
in writing. − the report presented focuses on the impact of the crisis on access to healthcare. it takes into account the needs of the caregiver as well as those receiving care, and it has many positive aspects. although several amendments to this report have been tabled, mainly in relation to the wider impact of the crisis on public health, the increased impact of youth unemployment, etc., it can still be said that the report presented in its final form deserves support.
in writing. − access to care and healthcare is a fundamental right of every citizen. unfortunately, social inequality is growing. the situation of vulnerable groups is deteriorating, poverty is increasing, the number of homeless people is increasing, and children are living in very difficult circumstances and therefore lack access to continuous care. in many cases, social security rules also hinder access to healthcare. people who need care or health care are not getting treatment because of the rising costs. in several countries, including slovakia, the situation of people in need leaves much to be desired in terms of support for their care. the costs of institutional care are becoming unaffordable, and if care is provided by family members, there is a lack of adequate support from the state to help with the costs of home care. not to mention that those who care for the needy are also deprived of the support that would ensure them a decent living and access to services. yet, they are often among the most vulnerable. i agree that funding programmes for social innovation in care services should focus on services that better meet societal needs and improve people's quality of life.
in writing − for many years, europe has prided itself on being a model in providing healthcare for its citizens. in recent years, whether as a result of the crisis, cuts in national budgets, increases in health-care costs, or austerity measures, especially in health-care services, many people have been marginalized. the fact is, more than 25 percent of the population remains in poverty. job losses and other fiscal measures are adding more and more people to this population. the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as the unemployed, the elderly, children, migrants, the homeless, single mothers, the disabled, as well as people with specific needs, deserve special attention. although social and health care remains a full competence of the member states, we need to propose measures that could inspire the states to improve access to services for their citizens. long-term investment in the health sector, continuing education and the development of health services are just a few of the steps that countries could take. we must realize that each of us has the right to a life of dignity. but i don't know how he can afford it if he has to struggle month after month with the lack of funds to buy food and provide basic health care for himself and his family. i therefore fully support the reform of social systems in the eu member states.
in writing. − the report responds to the commission's initial reports on the application of the audiovisual media services directive, which pointed out that there is a difference between internet media and media combining linear and non-linear media services. it addresses the consequences of the convergence of media services, the way in which these services are provided and consumed, as well as their impact on future legal instruments. as tv programmes and internet content are subject to different regulatory standards, it appears more appropriate that both forms of content are accessible via tv receivers. in this context, it is appropriate to assess whether and to what extent the rules need to be adapted depending on the content and the media services themselves.
in writing − the use of modern media is also linked to the modern age. hybrid television may still be a new concept to many, but the word 'internet' and the classic television programme are certainly not. combining these two concepts, we get a hybrid receiver that gives the user access to both services simultaneously. i think that the user needs to be able to understand the terms and clearly define the rules, as well as the overview of the specific offer that is based on the use of a hybrid medium. in my view, it is important to note that this is a major technological step towards the convergence of the current media. the media emerges as the fourth branch of power. their role is to inform, entertain citizens and oversee the exercise of power by other organs of the state. so if we recognize their special status in society, we have to understand that their regulation must be subject to separate regulations for the media sector. it is essential that the use of media, now and in the future, be based on the anonymity of users, the protection of children and human dignity and the guarantee of transparency, and that personal data should be processed only for the purpose of billing the offer. i therefore fully support mrs kammerevert's report and believe that it will contribute to promoting cultural diversity and ensuring media pluralism in the market.
in writing. − the treaty of accession of the republic of croatia to the european union provides for transitional measures in the budgetary field. the accession of croatia requires an adjustment of the ceiling for payment appropriations for 2013, which is to be increased by eur 374 million. at the same time, the financial framework for the european union approved in the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management should be adjusted for the period from 1 july to 31 december 2013 to take account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. − taking into account the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in the context of expenditure arising from the accession of croatia to the european union, the budgetary ceiling for 2013 is to be increased by eur 374 million. at the same time, the financial framework for the european union approved by the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management should be adjusted for the period from 1 july to 31 december 2013 to take account of the accession of croatia.
in writing. − the sovereign debt crisis that has hit europe, but particularly the euro area countries, has led to a severe economic downturn with negative social consequences for most member states in the form of rising unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. as cohesion and solidarity are among the union's main objectives, our efforts should be directed towards addressing the consequences of the economic crisis in member states, including those affected by economic difficulties caused by financial markets. looking ahead to 2014, it is important to make efforts to improve the coordination of social and economic policies at eu level in the preparation of the programme. this is justified both in the effort to avoid inconsistencies and in the creation of synergies between policies and in the mutual reinforcement of the objectives pursued.
in writing. − egypt is currently at a critical stage of its transition to democracy. the country faces major challenges in defining the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and social justice. political tensions are only exacerbating the internal polarization in egyptian society, leading to demonstrations and violent clashes, while instances of excessive use of force and violence against peaceful demonstrators by security forces and unknown groups remain unpunished. it seems justified to advocate in support of the demands of egyptian civil society, which this weekend demonstrated to demand new elections to allow the formation of a new government that will begin the constitutional process to draft a new constitution. it is important to express support for the egyptian people, particularly with regard to their demands for respect for human dignity, social justice, full freedom, genuine democracy, respect for human rights and better living conditions.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome the steps towards political reform such as enabling the opposition to win seats in the parliamentary elections. the political parties and the people of djibouti have shown commitment to the future of their country by participating in those elections. however, i am concerned about the current situation in djibouti, which is a key player in combating terrorism and piracy in the region. i strongly oppose the repression of political opposition and call for an immediate release of all those imprisoned. i strongly condemn excessive acts of sexual violence against women. the government must prevent such deplorable acts and punish the perpetrators. djibouti has to show commitment to democratic principles and respect for human rights to further advance its ties with the european union.
for the efd group. the social transition from a one-party system to a pluralist democracy is often accompanied by problems, as we see in the case of djibouti. the state administration created by internal agreements within the structures of a political party is only rarely able to submit to the free democratic selection of voters. nevertheless, given djibouti's strategic importance at the tip of the horn of africa, we must exert an effective influence on local political structures in order to achieve the conditions for the transitional establishment of a pluralist system and a democratic political environment. first of all, we need to stop the government's persecution of opposition politicians, civil society, journalists and the spread of lawlessness. then we should seek an agreement or cooperation between the ruling faction and the opposition through effective mediation and strive to establish new relations between them on the basis of mutual tolerance and understanding. given the country's material dependence on stable revenues from the us, japan and europe, with a well-coordinated joint approach, we could put the pressure on and achieve such a goal.
for the efd group. the civilian population is the most affected by the fighting between boko haram and the nigerian military. the root cause of tension between indigenous groups is to be found in the competition for control of fertile agricultural land. deepening climate change and expanding deserts are driving muslims from the north into more fertile areas, where social tensions are then created based on ethnic and religious differences. boko haram, which operates in borno, yobe, and adamawa states, threatens not only police stations and military installations with terrorist attacks but also schools, churches, and farms. and yet, the nigerian military's disproportionate response is again hitting civilians, with homes and schools being destroyed by the military. we must therefore appeal to the nigerian authorities to ensure that the measures that the military must take in the interests of stability are proportionate and do not affect the civilian population. we must also call on the nigerian authorities to launch an inter-faith dialogue as a matter of urgency in order to eliminate religious and ethical intolerance in the country. there are many problems in nigeria. but that does not mean that we will stand by and watch the suffering of the citizens of this country. we need to be proactive in addressing its most serious problems.
mr president, i support the text of the resolution that strongly condemns the escalation of violence on the part of boko haram and the tragic loss of innocent lives in nigeria. we cannot approve of nigeria’s response, which has become increasingly brutal and indiscriminate. we condemn the military for using disproportionate force which leads to further escalation of the conflict. the government must aim for a peaceful solution by addressing the root causes of the conflict. terrorism is most likely to take root in countries which are not delivering for their people and when the sources of conflict and underlying frustration are not dealt with. the nigerian government needs to give people opportunity, education and social justice because, as martin luther king famously stated, ‘without justice there can be no peace’.
in writing the issue of the legislative regulation of registered partnerships is a very sensitive one and views on it vary across the eu member states. i therefore welcome the fact that the draft regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships respects the principle of subsidiarity in favour of the member states. this regulation should in no case be used as a pretext for the introduction of a registered partnership between two persons of the same sex. the regulation concerns matters relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships. simply put, it is a situation where two people who have entered into such a union in a state that allows such a thing want to annul it and settle their property. the term 'registered partnership' is included for the purposes of this regulation only and is defined as a union which is not a marriage. the specific content of the term 'registered partnership' is defined in the national legislation of the member states. the sole purpose of the recognition of a decision on the property consequences of a registered partnership in a member state is to enable the enforcement of the property consequences determined by that decision. however, member states in which there is no registered partnership are not required to set up such an institute under this regulation.
in writing. the eu needs a competitive, integrated and flexible energy market, capable of putting the security of electricity and gas supply on a firm footing. our ever-increasing energy demands require us to ensure that our citizens have access to affordable energy. we need to invest urgently in our energy generation, transmission, distribution and storage infrastructures. the different situations in the member states should be taken into account. to this end, effective mechanisms should be established to avoid distortions in the energy market. we need economically sound investments in energy efficiency. this is one of the fastest ways to increase security of supply and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. despite the progress made in the functioning of the energy market in recent years, there is still work to be done to improve integrity and increase competitiveness. therefore, further support is needed to ensure the deployment of smart gas and electricity networks.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, commissioner, in spite of several decades of legislation and effort, the gender pay gap is still stagnating – according to data from two years ago – at 16.2%, even though we have had legislation in force since 1975. as you know, the recast directive of 2006 did not bring about any significant improvement at all. the commission was required to review this recast directive by 15 february 2013 and to propose the amendments necessary to improve the situation. to seize the opportunity of that deadline, parliament decided in may 2012 to adopt a resolution setting out nine groups of major recommendations, which the commission should have taken into account when revising the directive. unfortunately, the deadline has come and gone and nothing has changed. the commission has not fulfilled its obligations. meanwhile, parliament prepared a european added-value assessment with valuable findings which, overall, support the line of its resolution. to conclude: this oral question and the resolution sum up the situation and call on the commission to keep its promise, to review the recast directive and to propose amendments taking on board the recommendations of the european parliament.
we have recently seen again that the citizenship law adopted by the slovak government in 2010 is not only flawed, but its application is also overreaching. just as the adoption of the law was politically motivated, so too is the fact that berényi józsef, the chairman of the hungarian community party, was summoned to the police on the basis of an anonymous complaint. the case proves that the law is perfectly suited to harassing hungarian opposition politicians in slovakia, even on the basis of anonymous complaints. i would also like to draw attention to a move in the slovak legislature which is contrary to the free movement of persons: under the law approved in may, it is an offence not to notify in advance of a stay abroad of more than 90 days. moreover, it is punishable by the authorities, which is clearly contrary to the principle of free movement of persons.
the internal market for all services, including financial services, must be based on clear rules, with sufficient transparency, while safeguarding healthy and effective competition. the integrity of financial markets, and of the actors operating on them, has been severely compromised in recent years. it cannot be expected that all market participants will act only according to the moral rules of professional ethics. such conduct must be required by law and, in particular, be subject to effective sanctions in the event of infringement. for some, an advantageous course may seem unethical and illegal, and they may profit from it. i therefore support the establishment of effective and transparent measures and procedures to effectively detect abuses and manipulation in financial markets.
written − in february this year, the european parliament adopted an annex to its resolution on the conservation of fisheries resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms. it stated that the provisions of that regulation concerning implementing acts were the result of a compromise solution. the european parliament has accepted the possibility of using implementing acts in certain specific cases of regulation (ec) no 850/98. however, it stressed that those provisions should not be regarded as precedent or used as precedent in any regulation adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, in particular in the commission proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms.
in writing, the european union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is guaranteed. in order to gradually create such an area, the union needs to adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications. as far back as 2010, the commission announced that it would adopt a legislative proposal to remove obstacles to the free movement of persons, and in particular the difficulties that couples face in managing or dividing their property. the interpretation of forms of unions other than marriage differs in the laws of the member states and it is necessary to distinguish between couples whose union is institutionally confirmed by the registration of a partnership by a public authority and couples who live only in a de facto union. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to remove obstacles to the free movement of persons who have registered their partnership, in particular the difficulties encountered by such couples in administering or dividing their property.
in writing − while the free movement of persons between member states is one of the eu's fundamental objectives, i think that citizens still face many obstacles to exercising their rights. as this situation also affects international marriages and registered partnerships, i supported the report because i think that it is necessary to look for ways of gradually eliminating these problems, which are encountered mainly in the day-to-day management of common property, but also at the time of the dissolution caused by the separation of the partners or the death of one of them. i consider the need for change in this area to be particularly important, as more and more citizens have recently moved to other eu countries to form marriages and registered partnerships. i agree that, in the interests of the legal uncertainty and, in many cases, the discrimination of international couples, legislative measures should be adopted which not only ensure a uniform and simplified legal framework but also protect their property regime and property consequences. i expect that these amendments can help to remove the cumbersome and costly formalities associated with the cross-border recognition of various documents, which are often not recognised by individual member states (family status, life events).
in writing − if you have the law on the matrimonial property regime and on jurisdiction varies considerably from one member state to another. moreover, the increased mobility of persons within the area without internal borders leads to a significant increase in the number of unions between nationals of different member states and to the residence of such couples on the territory of a member state of which they are not nationals. i believe that our aim should be to create a clear legal framework within the european union, including the determination of the competent court and the applicable law in matters of matrimonial property regimes and facilitating the movement of decisions and documents in the member states.
in writing − as i supported the report on the property consequences of registered partnerships, i also voted in favour of this report because i consider property relations and the education of children to be the two most fundamental issues of the marital relationship. i also consider it to be particularly important because the phenomenon of eu international couples is becoming more and more prominent and, in the case of the mobility of persons within the area without borders, there is an increasingly significant increase in the number of marriages between citizens of different member states. although some measures have already been taken in the area of matrimonial property regimes, i believe that it is necessary to adopt further amendments to the substantive law and to the private international law governing the property consequences of marriages. given the nature and extent of the problems faced by eu citizens, which i also face as an mep, the union needs to put more pressure on the application of existing international conventions on matters of matrimonial property regimes. as the differences between member states are still enormous, i expect the commission, in cooperation with the member states, to continue to work towards a clear legal framework, including the determination of the court with jurisdiction and the law applicable in matters of matrimonial property regimes.
in writing − i believe it is right to seek to transform the european transport system into a sustainable and competitive system that further improves mobility and continues to support economic growth and employment. there's a constantly growing demand for transportation, there's a demographic change. in the area of infrastructure, progress is necessary and desirable in smart, green, low-maintenance and climate-resilient infrastructure, including the provision of alternative fuels, modal transport management and information systems that can support user services, demand response and other solutions related to the optimised use of infrastructure. capacity building at local, regional and national level is necessary for public authorities responsible for the provision of services as well as for transport operators. last but not least, i believe it is important to focus on research and innovation in transport technologies to promote easy, sustainable and safe mobility for even the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this current report because i think it is a well-crafted report and all the proposed measures which are put forward and which are aimed at improving mobility and creating economic growth and jobs need to be supported. i also agree that transport integration should lead to the unification of the european transport system for all modes, in particular by getting rid of the current tendency to consider each mode separately. i also consider this topic to be important because the transport and storage sector, including postal and courier activities, contributes to europe's competitiveness and provides employment for some 11 million workers, which is not negligible in terms of the percentage of all jobs. i believe that if we want to reduce europe's dependence on oil imports, improve the environment, reduce road accidents and significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we must look for new options for alternative fuels, sustainable energy sources and the use of energy-efficient and greener means of transport. in order to meet these requirements and objectives, i expect stakeholders to develop and implement innovative solutions more quickly and efficiently.
written − article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr) and article 14 of the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) establish the right to a fair trial. article 48 of the charter guarantees respect for the right of defence. i consider the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions to be a fundamental pillar of judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union. however, mutual recognition can only function effectively if there is mutual trust, which requires the adoption of detailed rules to protect the procedural rights and guarantees arising from the charter, the echr and the echr. common minimum rules should lead to increased trust in the criminal justice systems of all member states, which in turn should result in more effective judicial cooperation within the union. the obstacles to the free movement of citizens should also be removed. i consider it important to apply all the common minimum rules mentioned in relation to the right of access to a lawyer and the right to communicate after arrest. however, common minimum standards cannot be achieved by member states acting unilaterally, either at central, regional or local level. it is therefore desirable and necessary to act at the level of the european union in this matter.
in writing − if you have the level of assurance of access to an effective defence, which is one of the fundamental procedural rights in criminal proceedings, varies depending on the particular legal system of each member state and its application in practice. strengthening the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is a logical consequence of the functioning of a democratic and rule of law respecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. in this context, it should be stressed that the presumption of innocence is one of the fundamental conditions for the proper functioning of justice in any state and constitutes a safeguard for the rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings who may not be the actual perpetrators of the offence. so i defend the rule that a suspect or accused person who is deprived of liberty has the right to be informed of this by at least one person of his own choosing. as regards certain acts of seizure of evidence, such as the taking of blood or dna samples or the search of body cavities, which are a significant interference with bodily integrity, the right of access to a lawyer must be clearly guaranteed.
written − the european parliament has long called for greater protection of the rights of victims of crime, but also of suspects and accused persons. following the failure to adopt a framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings, proposed by the european commission in 2004, the plenary strongly called for the adoption of an ambitious legal instrument on procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings. these rights and freedoms are among the foundations on which any mature democracy is built, and the eu is certainly one of them. article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr) and article 14 of the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) establish the right to a fair trial. article 48 of the charter guarantees respect for the right of defence. common minimum rules should lead to increased trust in the criminal justice systems of all member states, which in turn should result in more effective judicial cooperation within the union. the obstacles to the free movement of citizens should also be removed. all the common minimum rules mentioned should apply in relation to the right of access to a lawyer and the right to communicate after arrest. harmonised minimum standards cannot be achieved by member states acting unilaterally. action at european union level is therefore necessary.
in writing − the financial crisis has had a significant impact on the citizens of the union. in response to this, the commission has been undertaking a comprehensive review of the eu mortgage housing markets for some time. all this in an effort to ensure the effective functioning of the single market. one of the objectives of the proposal is to create an efficient and competitive single market for consumers, creditors and credit intermediaries with a high level of protection. the second objective is to promote financial stability by ensuring that mortgage markets operate in a transparent and accountable manner. i believe that it is necessary and important to give due attention to this issue, since the signing and conclusion of a mortgage loan contract is one of the most significant financial decisions in a person's life, representing a financial commitment potentially lasting for decades.
in writing − the aim of the directive is to extend the single market to the field of mortgage lending. for people applying for credit, this means the introduction of the same rules for assessing credit applications, sufficient information on the terms of the loan before the contract is signed and the certainty that compliance with these rules by banks will be rigorously monitored in all eu member states. the directive should also facilitate cross-border mortgage lending. the draft directive was prepared in consultation with all interested parties banks, consumer organisations, member states, but also representatives of creditors and credit intermediaries. as regards the proposed eu-level measures, the most prominent support from all the groups consulted was for the obligation to carry out a creditworthiness assessment, the need for clear, understandable and comparable pre-contractual information and the need to ensure that all actors in the lending market are subject to appropriate regulation and supervision.
written − the market abuse directive adopted in early 2003 established a comprehensive framework to combat insider dealing and market manipulation. the directive aims to enhance investor confidence and market integrity by prohibiting insider dealing in related financial instruments and by prohibiting market manipulation through practices such as the dissemination of false information or unverified reports and the execution of trades that guarantee prices at unnatural levels. overall, the preferred policy options, together with a sound approach to the use of inside information, can be expected to contribute to improving the integrity of financial markets, which will have a positive impact on investor confidence, while contributing to the financial stability of financial markets.
written − council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 of 21 december 2005 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the øresund gives the commission powers to implement certain provisions of that regulation. as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission by that regulation need to be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). at the same time, i believe that the commission should ensure the timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and the council.
in writing − if the union is to respond to europe's energy and climate change challenges and to ensure affordable and secure energy supplies for households and businesses, it must ensure that the internal european energy market functions efficiently and flexibly. i believe that further efforts are needed to integrate markets, improve competition and to be able to respond continuously to new challenges. unless fundamental changes are made to the way the energy market works, we will end up with a less reliable and more costly european energy system, with the consequent reduction in the union's competitiveness and wealth. i believe it is important to motivate further measures to improve energy efficiency, to stimulate fair competition and, last but not least, to improve consumer rights.
written − electricity is the most easily transportable and transformed form of energy for households and industry and is therefore rightly considered to be one of the key elements for the development of the european economy and job creation. i voted in favour of the report because it not only points out the shortcomings of the internal energy market, but also contains measures to combat energy poverty and unavailability, which affects some 13% of european households, or 65 million europeans. thanks to all those involved in the report, but i still feel that the objectives of the internal energy market, which would allow consumers in each member state to choose their supplier on the basis of supply and price, have not yet been met. although some progress has been made in relation to energy consumers, i expect the commission to do much more, in particular on infringements by member states, to strengthen the rights of consumers, especially the vulnerable, and to develop a definition of european energy poverty. i agree that the energy community must be based on a strong common energy market, coordination of energy purchases across eu borders and common european funding for new low-cost energy technologies. i am aware that the trend of rising energy prices is likely to continue, and i therefore regard the lack of information and, in many cases, the illiteracy of european citizens and consumers of the internal energy market as a very serious moment.
in writing − i consider cohesion policy to be a powerful tool for implementing socioeconomic priorities and it plays a very important role in the eu at the present time. i am glad that it also creates new jobs, reduces regional disparities and, what i consider important, supports the activities of individual member states. i supported the report because i believe that it not only sets out the state of play and the benefits of energy efficiency, but also provides the ideas and recommendations of the eu strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth that can ultimately help meet the target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. i am sure that although a fair amount of work has been done in the area of energy efficiency, i still encounter entities that, in accessing the structural funds and the cohesion fund, encounter too much red tape, not enough clear procedures and rules, which in many cases have discouraged them from applying for such funds. i therefore welcome all the commission's proposals for a simpler and more flexible allocation of these funds, not only at eu level but also at national level.
in writing − the present report aims to support the development of a new union strategy in the fisheries and aquaculture sector for the adriatic and ionian sea region and thus make a significant contribution to the development of sustainable economic activities that could have a positive impact on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. the adriatic and ionian sea region remains economically, environmentally and culturally diverse. although there are many examples of successful interregional cooperation, the problems of the region as a whole are still not being addressed in a sufficiently efficient and effective manner. however, the adriatic-ionian strategy seeks to make efforts to promote, among other things, sustainable fisheries. it is justified to take into account the specificities of this marine area, including its specific geophysical characteristics, in measures relating to the fisheries and aquaculture sector.
written − the european court of auditors submitted to the committee on budgetary control back in 2005 a special report indicating the interpretation expenses incurred by the parliament, the commission and the council. in the case of parliament, the aim of this report was to examine possible improvements by focusing on organisational issues, while guaranteeing members the right to speak and be heard in the official language of their choice. the report also highlighted the inefficient use of interpretation services and the need to raise awareness of the costs of interpreting and the waste of resources. in addition to the effort to make interpretation more cost-effective, the report aims to raise awareness of the need to improve efficiency in multilingualism, without compromising overall quality and the right of members to use the official language of their choice in parliament.
in writing − i voted in favour of this current report because i think it is well drafted and presents effective measures to make efficient use of interpretation resources. i expect that the adoption of these measures will continue to preserve appropriate working conditions for the services concerned and also maintain the excellent quality of interpreting. i was pleased to hear that the introduction of a 'resource-efficient comprehensive multilingualism system' had led to savings in 2011 and 2012 without compromising the principle of multilingualism. although the interpretation services have been made more efficient and their costs have been reduced in recent years, i expect the ep to continue along this path in order to avoid, for example, situations where interpretation is provided in some languages without being used, to avoid further costs incurred as a result of late cancellation of meeting requests and visits by delegations with interpreters, etc. i agree that the principle of sound financial management must also apply to interpretation, and therefore i support the proposal that a critical analysis be carried out on a continuous basis, which should point out ways of improving the efficiency of interpretation and controlling its costs.
in writing − multilingualism is part of europe's heritage. its consistent use in the european parliament guarantees the citizens of the european union the right to communicate with parliament and their directly elected representatives in their mother tongue. at the same time, it also allows for access to information for linguistically disadvantaged citizens by not favouring some languages over others. that is why i have been personally committed for a long time to ensuring that the european parliament has enough quality and flexible interpreters and translators. i also support efforts to use budgetary funds efficiently and economically. however, even at the time of the inquiry, solutions must be sought which preserve the quality of interpretation and translation on the premises of the european parliament.
in writing − if you have with the development of online technologies, the provision of gambling services through various remote distribution channels has recently been simplified. the internet and other electronic means of communication, such as mobile phones or television, may be included. the nature of the online environment means that gambling sites can operate in the eu outside any form of control exercised by the union regulatory authorities. consumers in europe also seek online gambling services across borders, which may expose them to serious risks if these services are not adequately regulated. the wide range of offerings and growing demand for online gambling services are serious challenges in ensuring the proper implementation of public policy objectives at national, eu and international level.
written − gambling is not considered to be a normal economic activity. their specific nature, which is also linked to the fact that the outcome of the game is uncertain and depends on many factors that the player cannot influence, can have many potentially negative health, family and social consequences. thousands of citizens across the eu are already addicted to pathological gambling, which amounts to millions of euros a year. the sad fact is that, especially in times of economic crisis, many citizens are trying to 'improve' their families' situation by trying to win at gambling. moreover, the impact on families and society can be multiplied by the easy accessibility of gambling via the internet. i therefore welcome and appreciate the case law of the court of justice of the european union which, in the area of gambling organisations, recognises consumer protection, fraud prevention and the encouragement of citizens to overspend on gambling. in my view, consumers, especially the most vulnerable, such as young people and adolescents, deserve a certain level of protection, including in the interest of public policy.
in writing. - i supported the report because i believe that online gambling, in the present day, when the anonymity of gamblers is guaranteed, affects young people the most and leads to addictions that are often devastating for entire families. it is shown that there is a dangerous link between the bad economic situation and high levels of gambling, and the current extremely harsh social and economic conditions have encouraged the rise of gambling. it is therefore necessary to take measures against illegal gambling provided within the territory of the member states, in particular in relation to consumer protection. online gambling provides a platform for money laundering, for influencing sports results, for corruption in sports, but also in other sectors. therefore, it is right to introduce registration of companies operating online games, to make consumers aware of the possible risks and to cooperate with all countries in exchanging information on suspicious activities at national and european level.
in writing - gambling is a threat to human dignity. they open the door to negative social phenomena such as pathological gambling, organised crime and money laundering. there is therefore a social consensus on the need to regulate and comprehensively supervise this type of business. in particular, it is necessary to protect the consumer against the unlawful practices of companies offering services in an unlawful manner. the application of the age limit is particularly important, which is more complicated in the case of the internet. young people are much more vulnerable. a technological solution should be found to effectively prevent minors from accessing online gambling offers.
the european budget is one of the most important tools for overcoming the crisis. every citizen of the european union should have the right to participate in and benefit from the benefits of the budget, whether at national, regional or european level. it is therefore our duty to focus in particular on improving the quality of life of our citizens, increasing employment, eliminating youth unemployment, increasing competitiveness and improving the competitive environment for entrepreneurs. we must minimise bureaucratic obstacles and thereby also support small and medium-sized enterprises, which are crucial to the recovery of our economy. successful projects such as erasmus must also be supported. the problem of the 2013 budget, and in particular its resolution in the form of a second amending budget, is therefore a precursor to the 2014 budget and the multiannual financial framework. the 11.5 billion gap in financial resources, even if reduced to 7.5 billion, is really big and we need stability now above all. we must take account of the limitations we have and therefore we, the parliament, must at this moment appeal to the council to deliver on its commitments for 2013. even if the council is being punishably late, it is our duty to make room for at least the next few months, and thus ensure that the citizens in our member states receive the funds as they were prepared.
in writing it is of the utmost importance that we settle the 2013 eu payment commitments by the end of the year. if we are to successfully combat the crisis and secondary insolvency, we must act quickly. draft amending budget no 2 will only help the council and the commission to address these commitments. this tranche is obviously not sufficient to meet the european parliament's request. the commission should therefore submit the next amending budget as a matter of urgency. only after this commitment has been fulfilled will the european parliament support the adoption of the 2014 budget as well as the new multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. with regard to the proceeds from the fines and penalties of eur 290 million, i shall inquire as to their source and origin. i say this because it is necessary to examine the harshness of the commission's application of the corrections, particularly to the municipalities and cities as well as to the autonomous regions. sometimes these corrections have nothing to do with justice. then, such adjustments may give the impression that the main purpose is to obtain resources at any cost to meet eu commitments. but it also has the opposite effect: in a crisis, it can particularly harm those with the most limited resources. this can already have a negative impact on the under-utilisation of european resources, and thus on unemployment, solvency, stability and economic growth.
youth unemployment is one of the most worrying problems in europe in terms of its long-term consequences. perhaps it is enough to point out just how much it could deepen the demographic crisis. not only are there huge differences between member states, but youth unemployment cannot be regarded as a homogeneous problem. from illiterate early school leavers to university graduates, the scale is very wide. the skrzydlewska report contains almost 100 recommendations, and on this scale i would like to highlight the following: first, the unemployment of the under-skilled or unskilled is one of the most worrying problems. they are barely more than 50% of the labour force. secondly, career counselling needs to be given a much bigger role. free choice of career cannot be synonymous with free choice of unemployment. the education system, the labour market, the matching of supply and demand cannot be left to the free market. that doesn't sound like much of a solution. i would like to stress that the lack of guidance and probably a lot of misconceptions about job creation are worrying. it's unfortunate, for example, that the continuing education of the illiterate unemployed focuses on, or is limited to, how to write a biography. finally, i would like to emphasise that policies in this area often lack adequate coordination. a good example of this is the initiative we see in the negotiations for the european globalisation adjustment fund: as many unemployed as the region asks for support, it can ask for as many young people, unless one of them is affected by redundancies, globalisation or the crisis. it's not really a strategic idea. it seems that more consistent coordination will be needed to find an effective solution. (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
answer to a trick question. it should not be overlooked that there are disadvantaged groups where extreme poverty does not actually allow people to access higher education. different paths in life are not to be ignored. it's a real problem that lives with us. so this requires a different solution than the unemployment of university graduates. that's what i was trying to point out.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr papanikolaou, for his very good report and for our cooperation in the committee on culture. the fact that we are debating today the situation of young people in the european union also means that this situation is not entirely happy, and of course the european parliament is interested in how to deal with it. of course, it is important in this context not only to talk about the various problems young people in the eu have, but also to come up with some solutions. the young people and the generation of young people in the eu today are the most educated in the history of the european union and of europe as a whole, but they also have the highest unemployment rates and the lowest chances of entering the labour market. so we have to come up with the solutions that i want to talk about. i am sure that a very large proportion of these young people who are unable to find work have a very big problem with having completed their studies or having received some education which obviously does not correspond to the needs of the labour market or to the possibilities that exist, and that is why we need to provide them with further training, and that is why what commissioner andor said is very important, and i am very pleased that he has presented the proposal for a youth guarantee which we as socialists have supported from the outset, which really brings these young people new opportunities, and that is the possibility of further training or creating new jobs for these young people. we also need to think about how to reform education in the eu, so that we don't have what we have today, that the skills that young people acquire in education are not really those that correspond to the labour market, and therefore we need to talk about what skills they should have, whether it's information technology skills, also because the eu is multilingual; we currently have 24 official languages in the eu, it's certainly language teaching, also entrepreneurship training, other professional advice that we have to provide to these young people already during the educational process. it is also very important to talk about how these young people have the opportunity to enter the labour market, through internships, which of course we have to stop and think about their quality, because many times it happens that really young people get the opportunity to go on some kind of internship, but the conditions they have during this internship are not really responsible. perhaps in short, it is more support for our programmes, such as erasmus plus, the future programme in education, training, where we really need more funding, and also we must not forget the structured dialogue on youth, which really offers young people the opportunity to participate in the eu policy making that concerns them.
the situation on the labour market in the european union is critical and also affects young people very much. surveys show that while the unemployment rate in the european union for people of working age is 11%, for young people under 25 it is more than double that. moreover, this situation is aggravated by the fact that the differences between member states are profound. young people therefore contribute a very high proportion of the overall unemployment rate and are one of the most vulnerable groups. the number of young people without education or training for employment is also increasing. youth unemployment can therefore be considered one of the greatest challenges, but also one of the greatest social threats, of the european union. that is why fighting it must be our absolute priority. the fight against youth unemployment can only be won by greater and more targeted investment. those countries where the european youth guarantee programme has not yet been introduced should start implementing it without delay, as this is a project that will make it significantly easier for young people to adapt to the work process.
for the efd group although the european union set itself the goal of becoming the world's fastest growing education economy by the turn of the millennium in the lisbon strategy almost 10 years ago, experience has shown that there are often wide gaps between political declarations and reality. the reality is that the union is now significantly behind in digital technologies, which is also reflected in the reduced economic competition in europe. therefore, we need to take much more effective measures quickly to develop the digital economy in the union as quickly as possible so that the objectives of our digital agenda match the needs of a modern emerging economy that expects up to a tenfold increase in data transmission over digital networks by 2018. we also need to place great emphasis on promoting the effective protection of information transmitted over digital networks, because the technologies currently used by the us nsa or other intelligence services may soon be available to a variety of private, private stakeholders.
in writing. the ongoing economic and social crisis is hitting the most vulnerable groups of the eu population hardest. the huge level of unemployment, the failure of businesses and the senseless cuts in the public sector are leading to an increase in poverty and to a situation where we cannot guarantee our citizens even basic social services and rights, such as the right to a decent life, the right to education, the right to work, medical care, the right to help in emergencies, etc. the poor economic and social situation of our citizens is creating a lack of confidence in the meaning of the european project and in the european union as such. the union's current problems are felt firsthand. no wonder they are growing more skeptical. the people of the member states are not seeing the real results of our efforts. the crisis measures are not effective enough. concrete measures should be taken to promote sustainable and smart growth, to create new jobs, to take measures to guarantee that young people can start working on the labour market after finishing their studies and not to waste their talents in the employment offices. the necessary measures to promote the eu's competitiveness should be taken. measures are needed to revive our single market and to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which are indispensable in the context of economic recovery. the union needs a deeper degree of integration and a greater degree of mutual solidarity.
written − the treaty of lisbon expresses support for the cultural and linguistic heritage of the european union in all its diversity. endangered languages should be considered part of europe's cultural heritage and should not be used as a tool for political, ethnic or territorial ambitions. i am convinced that all the languages of europe are an integral part of european cultures and civilizations and contribute to the enrichment of humanity as a whole. in this context, i therefore believe it is of the utmost importance that the european institutions, but also the governments and regional authorities of the member states, establish programmes to promote tolerance of endangered linguistic or ethnic communities, respect for their linguistic and cultural values and respect for these particular communities.
in writing. − the time has come for the adoption of a parliamentary resolution on the protection of endangered languages, as demonstrated by the fact that it was voted by a majority in the european parliament. this call to the commission and the member states of the european union was necessary, in particular to protect and preserve the more than 100 endangered languages of the union. stronger tools are needed to ensure the protection of linguistic rights in the eu. cultural and linguistic diversity is a common asset that needs to be promoted more effectively at both eu and member state level. every child should have the opportunity to learn his or her mother tongue, even if it is classified as a minority or endangered language. learning a mother tongue is also about identity formation, a community loses its identity if it does not speak the language of its ancestors. in some cases, it is difficult to define what constitutes an endangered language, and inadequate legal conditions and lack of financial support can easily lead to the endangerment of languages that are still classified as minority languages. i hope that future policy decisions will prevent the extinction of the languages spoken in the diaspora. multilingualism is a value, and it is in this spirit that projects should be supported which, even in a small community, help to preserve european diversity, all of which are now possible thanks to the new technologies.
in writing − if you have one of the european union's fundamental pillars is its linguistic and cultural diversity, in which each language has its own place, value and importance. the use of language is an integral part of each of our lives, part of our culture, history and, above all, of the heritage that we must pass on to future generations. slovak is one of the most difficult languages not only in the european union, but in general, but it is also a beautiful and melodious language. i would therefore like to thank you for your efforts to promote the diversity of european languages, which must be promoted and protected. i would also like to draw attention to a phenomenon that has begun to emerge in many countries, namely the use of english words as words of their own (so-called anglicisation). again, this is a downward trend in language diversity. i therefore support the view that this development should be encouraged by increasing the european funds allocated to these languages, by increasing interest in their use through translated literature, school teaching and, above all, by promoting anti-discrimination in language.
in writing - i supported the report which clearly points to the threat to european languages and linguistic diversity in the eu. i am sure that we all understand that in a time of financial and economic crisis, rising unemployment, stagnating economic growth and budget cuts, it is very difficult to ask for increased budgetary resources to save endangered languages and linguistic diversity. but surely each of us will support the call for the commission to ensure that the funds allocated to safeguarding measures are as easily accessible and as clear as possible, thus ensuring that those interested in using them can provide real help to endangered languages within the timeframe set. i also consider important the call for member states to pay increased attention to higher education and research, with a particular focus on endangered languages.
written − the purpose of this report is to ask the commission to submit a legislative proposal, on the basis of article 225 of the treaty, to amend article 9 of regulation (ec) no 401/2009 on the european environment agency (eea). the regulation currently mentioned does not contain any formal requirements for the candidate selected for the post of executive director, nor does it define that the candidate is to be heard by the competent body of the european parliament before his or her appointment. however, this requirement is present for other agencies. the commission is therefore required to make efforts to align the procedure for the eea with those applied to other agencies, such as the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency or the european food safety authority.
in writing, − in accordance with the joint statement of december 2012, the parliament, the council and the commission have committed to cover all remaining payment claims for 2012 through an amending budget at the beginning of 2013. the political agreement reached at the highest political level on 27 june 2013 by parliament, the council presidency and the commission on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 included a political commitment by the council to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's 2013 commitments are fully met. the commitments were made in order to avoid any shortfall in the payment appropriations. the commission is the only institution that can provide the budgetary authority with precise information on the expected payment needs on the basis of member states' requests. at the same time, each member state is responsible only for its own data and can therefore raise any objections only against these data.
in writing − if you have draft amending budget no 3/2013 aims to incorporate into the 2013 budget the surplus of eur 1 023,3 million from the 2012 financial year. the surplus is made up of the main components, which are unspent appropriations for expenditure of eur 244,3 million, positive revenue of more than eur 719,1 million and a positive exchange rate differential of eur 59,9 million. the adoption of the draft amending budget submitted will reduce the share of member states' contributions to the union budget by gni and thus partially offset their contributions to the financing of amending budget no 2/2013.
in writing − draft amending budget no 4/2013 aims to amend the establishment plan of the european gnss agency, creating 20 new posts, of the eacea executive agency, creating two new posts for temporary staff and 13 new posts for contract staff due to the extension of its mandate, and of the court of justice, creating seven new posts for the additional advocate general of the court of justice. the proposed reinforcement is budgetary neutral and, on the basis of existing intentions, is to be fully compensated by a corresponding reduction in the commission's budget section and, in the case of the court of justice, by the available committed appropriations within its own section.
written − the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund in an effort to show solidarity with the population in the regions affected by the disaster. the fund may be mobilised up to a maximum of eur 1 billion per year. slovenia, croatia and austria submitted applications to mobilise the fund, in relation to floods. the aid approved for these countries was calculated on the basis of an estimate of the total damage caused by the floods. it is at most justified to release the funds allocated for this purpose from the fund in such a way that at least part of the damage caused by the floods is compensated.
written − intense rainfall in late october and early november 2012 caused the overflow of rivers from their beds and the subsequent flooding of significant areas along the sava, kupa, mura and dráva rivers in slovenia, as well as in the mura, dráva and lavant river basins in austria and in the territory of croatia. the floods caused damage to private and public buildings, water infrastructure, including waste water treatment infrastructure, businesses, agricultural land and forest cover. the commission concluded that the damage caused by the floods mentioned in all three requests was due to the same meteorological conditions and therefore considers them to be one single event. according to the estimates of the slovenian, croatian and austrian authorities, the total direct damage amounts to eur 359,535 million for slovenia, eur 11,463 million for croatia and eur 9,6 million for austria. as regards slovenia, the disaster is considered to be a 'major natural disaster' in accordance with the council regulation. coming from a country that often faces floods, i am fully aware of the devastating effects that this natural element is capable of inflicting. i therefore fully support the commission's proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 14 607 942.
written. − draft amending budget no 5/2013 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) of eur 14 607 942 in commitment and payment appropriations to be used in connection with the floods that occurred in autumn 2012 in slovenia, croatia and austria. i consider it urgently necessary and important that financial assistance be provided promptly to the aforementioned state affected by this natural disaster. it is most appropriate to do so through the european union solidarity fund, which was set up for this very purpose.
in writing − i agree with the need to reduce emissions in the transport sector and to meet the europe 2020 targets. however, a key element of the proposed directive is the 5% cap on conventional biofuels produced from agricultural crops. i cannot agree with this measure as a significant amount of funds has been invested in the construction of modern biofuel production facilities in the slovak republic as a result of the implementation of the res directive 2009/28/ec. at the same time, slovakia was one of the countries that advocated stricter controls on raw materials for the production of next-generation biofuels during the negotiations in an effort to prevent possible deliberate pollution and fraud. i therefore support the establishment of a control system at european level. however, efforts should be made to avoid excessive administrative burden in its implementation. at the same time, in order to ensure the long-term competitiveness of biofuel-based industries, i believe that preference should be given to biomass feedstocks that do not have a high economic value for uses other than as biofuel.
in writing − if you have the corresponding regulation (ec) no 450/2008 of the european parliament and of the council establishing the union customs code aimed to adapt customs rules to the customs and electronic trading environment, while at the same time regulating that environment. the currently proposed measure consists of replacing that regulation with a recast regulation which aligns it with the treaty of lisbon, adapts it to the practical aspects and developments of the customs and other policy areas relating to the movement of goods between the eu and third countries, and provides sufficient time for the development of supporting it systems. the customs union is essential for the smooth and orderly functioning of the single market. i am convinced that it can only function properly if the regulations and the common and modern customs systems are implemented jointly and in a uniform manner.
in writing − council regulation (ec) no 1217/2009 confers powers on the commission for the implementation of certain of its provisions. as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission by that regulation need to be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of that regulation, while endeavouring to avoid discrimination between farmers, implementing powers should be delegated to the commission in respect of the adoption of rules on standard fees for the farm accountancy data network. the farm accountancy information network is an important tool for the finalisation and evaluation of agricultural policies, as it collects data on the income, inputs and outputs of a sample of agricultural holdings representative of the eu each year.
in writing. −the present regulation covers a number of directives concerning certain foodstuffs such as coffee and chicago extracts (1999/4/ec), cocoa and chocolate products (2000/36/ec), certain sugars (2001/111 / ec), fruit jams, jellies and marmalades and sweetened chestnut purée (2001/113/ec), and certain dried milk products (2001/114/ec). the aim is to align the commission's current implementing powers with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, in so far as they concern the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act delegated to the commission and, at the same time, the power to adopt uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding union acts conferred on the commission.
in writing. −directive 2011/92/eu has harmonised the principles for assessing the environmental impacts of projects and contributes to a high level of protection of the environment and human health. i consider it to be highly justified and important to amend the directive in question in order to improve the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedure, to make the various measures of that procedure more efficient and to increase coherence and synergy with other union legislation and policies, as well as with the strategies and policies developed by the member states within their national competences. it is undeniable that environmental issues have become more important in policy-making over the past decades and it therefore seems justified to give them the attention they deserve. the environment is one of the key factors, especially for infrastructure projects.
in writing, − relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde are governed by the acp-eu partnership agreement, known as the cotonou agreement, which was signed in june 2005. subsequently, two years later, the commission, in its communication on the future of relations between the european union and cape verde, recognised the strong and special historical links between the two parties, characterised by close interpersonal and cultural ties and shared socio-political values. there is reason to believe that the process of deepening relations between the european union and cape verde will certainly contribute to improving the administration of justice and increasing the level of respect for freedoms. the two agreements recently concluded with cape verde the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas and the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation have the potential to contribute fully to the achievement of this objective.
in writing − if you have as far as readmission obligations are concerned, they are based on a fully reciprocal basis and apply to own nationals as well as to third country nationals and stateless persons. the obligation to take in own nationals also applies to family members, i.e. spouses and minor unmarried children. in addition, as regards practical provisions, any readmission application must be made in writing and supported by proof of nationality.
written − the eu youth strategy serves as a vehicle for building relationships in areas such as employment and entrepreneurship, education and training, or social inclusion. it is also, to a large extent, a means of designing and implementing a variety of solutions to support young people. last but not least, it helps to find solutions to the current high level of youth unemployment and the growing number of young people who are unemployed and not in education or training. youth work has contributed to the development of young people and has the potential to do more in all areas of activity. i believe that the european union should make every effort to help young people to participate as much as possible in shaping the future of the union, or to involve them in particular in solving the problems that affect them most.
in writing - the eu youth strategy is a comprehensive framework that aims to cooperate on youth issues and to provide more and better opportunities for young people's lives, and member states should make full use of it. i supported the report because the continuing economic crisis has the greatest impact on young people's lives, on their living and working conditions, on their access to the labour market. the alarming rate of youth unemployment must put even more pressure on member state governments to take concrete action to align education with labour market needs. lifelong learning programmes must become part of every generation, including the young. therefore, the ongoing negotiations on a new multiannual financial framework should also contribute to increasing funding for youth and education policies.
in writing − today, there are over 5.5 million unemployed people under 25 in the european union. it can be said that there are substantial differences between countries. in view of the high unemployment rates in this particular population group, young people are increasingly putting off decisions about starting a family and so on. this is why initiatives and concrete measures are needed to increase the number of jobs and to create new ones. the real improvement of the situation of young people depends largely on state support and better cooperation between employment services, career guidance services, training institutions and youth support services and their efforts to bring about change for the better in the context of the issue. i also think it is very important to deal with the fact that highly qualified young people are working below their potential, because this too can have a negative impact on them, especially from a social and psychological point of view, as far as their future employment is concerned.
in writing. − promoting the effective implementation of the youth guarantee is one way of reducing youth unemployment. the solution to these challenges is to support and create smes to create new jobs. slovakia has the 6th highest youth unemployment rate in the eu. the legal framework governing the level of contribution burdens had a negative impact on the group of entrepreneurs. in slovakia, the index of the entrepreneurial environment declined by 72.2 points, representing a decline of 3.84 percent in the first three months of 2013 compared to the last quarter of last year. in its more than ten-year history, the index has never been lower. this change has a negative impact on young people's chances of finding a place in the labour market. they face an uncertain future in employment, which affects their lives in other ways. it affects their long-term social status, their decision to start a family, their decision to have a child. if member states do not take the implementation of the youth guarantee seriously and take measures to make it work effectively in the future, a whole generation may be excluded from the labour market. given the extremely difficult situation of young people, i agree that the effectiveness of all the measures taken by the member states should be examined. so i voted for this motion.
written − the economic crisis has negatively affected the lives of millions of young people across the european union. there is no such thing as a carefree youth, as young people have to cope with difficult living conditions on a daily basis, such as lack of access to decent housing, unemployment and related social exclusion, and limited opportunities for skills and education. but those who have attained an education are not guaranteed a quiet life either, for even highly qualified young professionals must be content with any menial job unrelated to their education. this is not only a waste of human potential but also an economic loss estimated at around eur 150 billion. i find it shocking that overall youth unemployment in the eu reached 23.5% in 2013 and unacceptable that almost 14 million young people are not in education, training or work. i therefore call austerity measures in the field of education and youth employment absolutely counterproductive. young people are our future, and we should therefore do everything in our power to ensure that they have the appropriate education and appropriate professional opportunities, in the interests of the well-being of society as a whole.
in writing. − currently, there are over 5.5 million unemployed people under 25 in the eu. however, there are substantial differences between member states: while youth unemployment is below 9% in germany and austria, in the crisis facing greece and spain the figure is above 55%. in the context of high unemployment rates, young people are increasingly putting off decisions about starting a family. the fact is that this condition is increasingly burdening and traumatizing not only young people but society as a whole. i recently attended a conference on youth unemployment, where we also had the opportunity to talk to representatives of businesses and companies about this problem. it is necessary to recall the difference between skills and experience. to give an example from slovakia: when looking for employees, companies include at least a minimum of experience as one of the conditions for applicants, which disqualifies a large number of young people, especially recent graduates. the effective improvement of the situation of young people depends to a large extent on better cooperation between employment services, career guidance services, training institutions and youth support services, including the active involvement of the social partners and representatives of young people and youth organisations. it is also very important to address the fact that highly qualified young people are working below their potential.
in writing. - what ? negotiating the issue of youth unemployment is not easy, and that is why i supported the report, because i consider it to be very important and highly relevant for today's times. i am sure that the statistics and figures presented in the report are clear and unequivocal evidence that the situation in this area is critical. i think there are many measures and options proposed to deal with this situation, but we have seen many times that willingness, new ideas and legislation alone are often not enough. in any case, i am in favour of the fact that smes can play a very important role in tackling youth unemployment. in order to tackle youth unemployment, smes need sufficient funding and the removal of burdensome legislation. i welcome the fact that, in order to help smes, the european investment bank will increase its lending to eur 60 billion per year by 2015 and redirect it to the benefit of smes and vulnerable countries. i also appreciate that the commission has already removed some of the most burdensome legislation, which will allow smes better access to public procurement and simplify product safety requirements. what ? at the same time, i expect that the eur 6 billion earmarked for combating youth unemployment will not be conditional on being used for the entire seven-year funding period, but will be available for use in 2014 and 2015. what ?
in writing − the services sector is a major driver of eu growth, accounting for over 65% of the union's gdp and employment. we are continually faced with new practices in the provision of services. we are seeing an increase in the penetration of services into all areas, there is an increasing interconnectedness of services. as a result, a more efficient functioning of the internal market in services is an important element in enhancing the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. at a time of calls to complement austerity measures with growth policies, the internal market in services is one of the few areas where growth can be achieved without increasing public debt. moreover, it is precisely the economic crisis that has given even greater urgency to act to unlock the full potential of services in the service sector for growth and jobs. for this reason, i believe it is important to continue to give this issue due attention.
in writing − in the current economic situation, i consider service innovation to be very important, which in my view can be seen as a very important and dynamic factor in achieving the desired objectives of the internal market in services. i also supported the report because it not only assesses the current state of service provision but also comes up with other proposals that are essential for the implementation of new forms of service and employment growth. i think that although quite a lot of work has been done at eu and national level in the area of service provision, there are still member states that are not implementing the services directive correctly in terms of content and purpose. i am convinced that if member states were to take a more bold approach to implementing it, the economic benefits would certainly be more significant not only for the country concerned but also for the eu as a whole. i therefore support the commission's zero-tolerance policy on clear breaches of the services directive. i expect the commission to continue on its current track of performance audits in the area of commercial services, which will also lead to appropriate consequences for infringers.
in writing − if we are to fully exploit the eu's huge potential in trade and services, we need to start applying the existing services directives more rigorously. the services market is an important part of the european economy, accounting for up to 65% of total gdp in europe. a functioning services market has the prospect of contributing to overall economic growth without increasing public debt, and i therefore consider the application of directives by member states to be necessary and beneficial.
written − malaysia is the eu's second most important trading partner within asean. the country is a multicultural, multilingual, multi-religious and multi-ethnic society with a malaysian-muslim majority and minority communities made up of indians, chinese and non-malaysian indigenous people. i am pleased that cooperation between the eu and malaysia has deepened in recent times, particularly in the areas of women's rights, children's rights, indigenous rights, migration and freedom of the press. in addition, the eu is gradually starting to cooperate with malaysia in areas falling under the common foreign and security policy, such as maritime security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i believe that it is necessary and important to make the right efforts to continue the trend.
the use of chemical weapons against civilians is a line no regime should approach. this line has been crossed in syria, and a crime against humanity has been committed. this cannot be accepted by the international community and requires a decisive response. the regime and the people responsible for the use of chemical weapons must be held accountable for this act. today, we must stop the escalation of violence and the further use of chemical weapons. i hope that such a solution, without the need to use military force, can be found in the coming days and that the union will contribute to finding a political and diplomatic solution to the crisis. but we have to start with the reality that we're in. syria has become the focus of a wider strategic conflict with devastating implications for the entire region. russia in particular should be reminded to take a responsible approach to the current crisis.
i want to point out some of the serious things that are in the syrian conflict: two million refugees, six million internally displaced people, and most importantly 100,000 dead in this terrible struggle, and there's no end in sight. the current opposition, the rebels fighting against the government, are not yet any guarantee that they will proceed democratically after taking power, as happened in egypt. look, we supported the opposition, not that it was ever right, but we know what they did first. they started persecuting christians, who make up 10% of the population in this country. christians are also the first victims of this inter-muslim conflict. but i would like to commend the union for having already spent 1.3 billion euros and for continuing to help.
in writing. the current situation in syria must concern every european. last year the eu won the nobel peace prize. today we have the opportunity to prove ourselves worthy of this award. violence is a daily occurrence in syria. it's a great tragedy that has no peaceful solution yet. in every war, women and children suffer the most. even among the nearly two million refugees, the largest number are women and children. they're desperate, they're waiting for international help, but i don't think it should be military aid. i am convinced that all the possibilities for a peaceful solution to the situation in syria have not yet been exhausted. the use of chemical weapons, whether by either side in the conflict, must be met with strong criticism and must be punished. eu representatives must make greater efforts in international negotiations to force the warring parties to negotiate and gradually end the fighting. i believe the way forward is through efforts to limit the supply of weapons to each of the warring parties in syria.
in writing colleagues, yes, in syria, two lines must be followed: to eliminate the threat of chemical weapons use and to find a political solution to the civil war. we must support the russian-american proposal that syria turn over its chemical weapons to the united nations and that they be destroyed. without delay. if syria meets this condition, the reason for military action will be lost. but let's not be under any illusions that the syrian regime will do this without the threat of military action. and the same is true of the process of political reconciliation. assad won't make any deals without the threat of military action. the content of the agreement must be simple: a timetable for the formation of a provisional government, the preparation of a constitution, the process of establishing democratic institutions and the subsequent elections. certainly, the process of reconciliation must include guarantees of minority rights, for alawites and christians. and of course, the inadmissibility of any form of terrorism. colleagues, the surrender of chemical weapons is the first step. but the most important. it will send a signal to anyone who might want to misuse chemical weapons that such a move is unacceptable to anyone. not for russia and china. syria has to sign the chemical weapons convention. it will be a clean solution, legal and legitimate, because it will be under the auspices of the un and in full compliance with international law. thank you. thank you.
i think mrs ashton is doing the right thing, both with syria and with egypt. let's not forget that there is still a revolutionary situation in egypt and it may take a long time. the european experience of revolutions also shows that even positive results are always applicable after decades. all political forces in egypt need time to mature. both the army on one side and the muslim brotherhood on the other. in the case of the muslim brotherhood, that transformation is only possible when they realize that democracy is not a luxury. democracy is the only way they can survive. this is exactly the same experience that the communist parties had to gain after 1989 in revolutions against totalitarian regimes. those who accepted the democratic regime survived, those who did not did not survive. i think this experience is very important. we must support all democratic initiatives with sensitivity. we do that in egypt. i think this is the way.
in writing to say that the situation in egypt is critical would be an understatement. it's a disaster. egypt is becoming a reign of chaos and violence. it's no longer just a fight between the army, the police and the islamist supporters. violence is increasingly reaching the civilian population. in 2011, after years of pressure from protesters, the autocratic president, hosni mubarak, resigned, bringing a brief moment of freedom and liberation to egypt. already at that time, there were pessimistic voices from the international community about the risks that this transition might pose. unfortunately, the worst of the predictions have come true. in july this year, after the military removed the democratically elected president, mohamed morsi, following further mass protests, egypt is experiencing a new, much worse form of the crisis. morsi was the head of the radical muslim brotherhood, which was repressed under mubarak, and now i fear he sees an opportunity for revenge. the fate of egypt is in the hands of the egyptians themselves, but the country is increasingly divided into two irreconcilable camps. it's hard to know what can be done to reverse the situation. i welcome the decision of our member states to suspend licences for arms exports to egypt. but the question is, what effect will it have? it is our duty to do everything we can to stabilize the situation, but the question remains how to do it.
mr president, i warmly welcome the report by ana gomes, but the paradox is that the eu possesses all the right tools to meet modern-day security challenges. it still has the second largest military spending in the world and it has a technologically advanced and innovative defence sector, yet we are still unable to translate these opportunities into a workable and coherent security policy. the technological, military and economic logic of a more integrated eu defence policy is inescapable but the problem is exclusively political. as long as member states continue to cling to a traditional concept of sovereignty in security matters, the eu will continue to be a second-tier actor. i hope that the december summit will mark the beginning of a paradigm shift.
it is regrettable that belarus remains one of the eastern partnership countries with problems in respect of the principles of democracy, the protection of human rights and civil liberties. despite various policy instruments and sanctions measures to improve the situation in this country, it is very small. i am therefore pleased that we have a report with recommendations on how the union should approach this country constructively. belarus should not remain isolated. the stagnation in the union-belarus relationship should be reversed. the union has real things to offer belarus. but it's up to him. the elimination of political prisoners, the discrimination against civil society, the undemocratic practices that restrict civil liberties, all these are the foundations of true partnerships. it is also worth reminding the belarusian political elites that they should be aware that their relations with russia also have their limits.
for the efd group the expected signing of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine at the vilnius summit in november is the result of many years of rapprochement between ukraine and the union. i am convinced that the ukrainian political leaders are sufficiently clear in their pro-european political orientation and therefore i do not think that they would not be prepared for possible changes in cross-border cooperation with their eastern partner. the statement that the members of the customs union consisting of russia, belarus and kazakhstan will want to update some trade agreements after the signing of the association agreement, i take only as a statement that moscow is aware of the new political reality and will have to treat ukraine as a country that is economically more closely linked to the european economic area after the signing of the agreement. therefore, i do not think that it is necessary to overestimate these statements of russian officials. after all, ukrainians today already know well with whom and why they want to cooperate more intensively in the future for the development of their country.
madam president, after four years of quiet existence, the eastern partnership is reaching a make-or-break moment at the vilnius summit. russia’s pressure on the eastern partnership countries has created a high-stakes geopolitical drama. our response to russia’s actions should be firm but not hysterical. we must reassure our eastern partners and proceed to sign and initial the association agreements at the vilnius summit without giving up on conditionality. it is obvious that russia perceives the eastern partnership as a security threat. going forward, our strategy challenge is to find a way for russia to become a part of this process and not to work against it. we must insist, however, that every country has a sovereign right to chose political and trade alliances and that the eastern partnership is not directed against russia.
madam president, over the last years we have been turning more focus on our eastern neighbours, most of whom are still battling with their internal political problems and struggling with democratic transformation. we are aware that the forthcoming vilnius summit will be crucial for our future relations with them. these countries now face a clear and difficult decision: to tighten relations with the eu and sign the free trade agreements and the association agreement, or make the choice to move closer to the russian customs union and eurasian union. when choosing their strategic partners, the eu’s eastern neighbours should be able to do so freely. yet, lately, many decisions have been made under unprecedented pressure from russia. political, diplomatic and economic pressure exerted by the russian federation on these countries sometimes borders on imperial bullying. the eu clearly awaits cooperation with these eastern partners as their democratic prospects await them too.
the proposed regulation is intended to transpose an international agreement into european union law. the nagoya protocol, which we are adopting by regulation, is an important tool to combat bio-piracy and restore fairness to the exploitation of genetic resources. as the benefits of using genetic resources, which come mainly from developing countries, usually end up in the pockets of users, we should also ensure a fair distribution of these benefits by regulation. however, the commission proposal does not place the necessary emphasis on the balanced sharing of the yield from genetic resources and amendments from the committees should therefore be supported. in particular, we must insist that patents always indicate the origin of the genetic resources and at the same time demonstrate that the genetic resources have been lawfully obtained for patenting. we should also respect and facilitate the rights of local communities whose traditional knowledge provides important information for the registration or patenting of discoveries of genetic resources. only by more precise wording of the provisions ... (the president withdrew the floor).
mr president, i have to ask you... officer, please! safety and health at work is important in itself, as you have stressed, but it also plays a key role in creating a level playing field. the commission's vigilance to ensure a level playing field is all the more striking in the absence of a forward-looking strategy for labour protection. the situation is improving, the numbers show, but it's not reassuring. especially since the improvement is largely due to the loss of jobs. within the union, 53% of workers are surveyed as having a problem with work-related accidents, as the work environment is a higher risk than other settings of daily life, and this is particularly true for small businesses. this risk can be greatly reduced by appropriate occupational safety measures. the working environment itself is changing - as the president mentioned - with the introduction of new technologies, but the structure of the workforce also increases certain types of workplace risks associated with ageing. there are many numbers that could be listed in this regard, but i would just like to highlight one. of the 216 million workers, more than 2.5 million are injured each year, and thousands die. i was just reading on the news today that there was another fatal workplace accident in our home country of slovakia today. thousands die each year from work-related accidents, and what we very often forget is that work-related harm is even more serious and far more widespread. for example, 90,000 people become disabled as a result of work-related accidents each year. it is true that we have a common debt, and let us not forget that the incorporation of the ilo convention on maternity leave into the european legal order is unfortunately a common failure. in view of this, we consider it necessary for the european commission to present a new strategy to reduce old and new risks. officer, please! that's what i'd like to encourage you to do.
for the efd group the annual report on the work of the european ombudsman for 2012 summarises the ombudsman's performance in the last year of the ten-year mandate of mr nikoforos diamandouros. the data contained in the report confirm that, in ten years of office, mr diamandouros has succeeded in building a stable, respectful and efficient office which is a credit to both the ombudsman and the european union. from the point of view of the statistics on documented performance, it is positive that citizens are now better informed about the division of competences between the national ombudsman offices and the european ombudsman's office, also thanks to the ombudsman's information campaign. the protection of citizens' rights, together with public administration, is a crucial aspect of a fairly organised society. this is also reflected in the annual evaluation of the european institutions' compliance with good practice. indeed, the greatest increase in violations of citizens' rights has been recorded in the activities of the european parliament, and the european commission is also the subject of the most investigations by the ombudsman. the above facts confirm the need to continue the work of the european ombudsman's office patiently and systematically in order to create the best possible conditions for honest and fair relations between citizens and the european institutions. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr nikoforos diamandouros for his work in the european ombudsman's office and at the same time to thank mr salavrakos for the good and quality work in drawing up the report for our debate.
i would also like to begin by acknowledging the ombudsman's work throughout his term of office in increasing fairness and transparency in the european union. the ombudsman's job is very responsible and not easy at all. it should also be said that it is the european institutions that do not make the ombudsman's job any easier. the report notes that, as in previous years, the majority of inquiries opened by the ombudsman concerned the commission up to 52.7% and the number of inquiries concerning the european parliament almost doubled. transparency, openness, access to information, respect for citizens' rights and high ethical standards are essential for the confidence of citizens and institutions, especially european institutions, ahead of the upcoming european parliament elections, when we will once again be vying for the people's trust. i therefore believe that the european institutions, also thanks to the new edition of the european code of good administrative behaviour, will contribute to greater openness and transparency in their activities.
the rapporteur advocates new legislation that would eliminate the risk of competition in the labour market in companies with pan-european operations. according to him, workers in these enterprises risk being exposed to competition and forced to accept lower wages, worse working conditions or other unfavourable arrangements. i am afraid, however, that no law can change the fact that if workers in a firm have 20 days of leave in one member state and 40 in another, this will affect production costs and the price of products. and sooner or later, in an effort to increase sales of its products, the company will move production to a country with lower costs. the trade union lobbying in the european institutions will not change that.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs griesbeck for her report. it is very important, especially in today's world, that the best interests of the child are at the forefront of public policy at both european and national level. the life of every child is a promise to the whole society. i would also like to take this opportunity to announce on the floor of the european parliament that the european citizens' initiative one of us has to date received one million signatures. i would like to thank the organisers and all eu citizens for their support. the aim of this initiative is to ensure that european policies respect the value of human life from its beginning and do not fund experiments on human embryos. effective child protection is possible only in a society that understands the value of human life and the dignity of every human being. i believe this initiative will contribute to that.
children unaccompanied minors in the european union need to be stopped. the existence of various lengthy administrative procedures often results in practice in the non-respect of the fundamental human rights of minors and de facto deprives minors of the special protection to which they are entitled by law. i believe that the solution to the situation of minors must be clearly conceived in the context of the family, and not in isolation. the family is the basic unit of society and must therefore be properly protected. natural law tells us that a child belongs to its parents and parents to their children. as legislators, we must not allow positive law to be misused to break up families, whether at eu borders or within them, as we have seen in the highly publicized cases from some member states, where children have even been administratively removed from their parents.
the commission's communication entitled 'promoting the cultural and creative sectors to boost employment in the european union' is the result of a public consultation on the green paper on the cultural and creative industries. although the commission's communication provides new impetus to unlock the potential of the creative sectors to accelerate economic growth, their importance for society and its smart development remains underestimated. just to illustrate, let me remind you that small teams of creative individuals who started their businesses in garages or modest makeshift spaces, after a few decades, are setting the technological standards of electronic communications worldwide. so the better employment conditions for creative people in the united states of america have contributed to the emergence of the innovation giants that are apple, microsoft and google today. the creative industries can provide society with many innovative incentives, but they need to be able to be put to use quickly and effectively. so we need to create a legislative and social environment in europe that is more supportive of the creativity of our people.
the problem of high youth unemployment is a concern for most european union countries today, including slovakia. it is therefore natural that this topic has also been included among the priorities of european policy. but the crisis was not the only cause of this problem, but also the poor quality of education and vocational training. training graduates entails additional costs, which is crucial in times of crisis. worse, we have long cultivated a mentality of entitlement and entitlement that is not balanced by responsibility to society, to family, to ourselves. high labour costs and high job security also push young people out of the labour market. the solution must therefore include simplification of employment contracts and increased flexibility of working hours. i supported the extended report, but i am afraid that the european funds are not a panacea for all problems.
in writing − in march of that year, the european ombudsman, mr p. nikiforos diamandouros, informed the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, of his decision to retire on 1 october 2013. it submitted its last annual report to the president of parliament in may 2013. as regards the ombudsman's work in the past year, he has helped over 22 000 individuals to deal with their complaints, provided answers to requests for information or offered advice to many through an interactive guide on his website. in more than 75% of cases, the ombudsman helped the complainant by opening an inquiry or referring the case to a competent authority, or advising the complainant on where to turn. it is appropriate to express gratitude to mr diamandouros for his decade-long and useful service in the institutions of the union.
in writing − the institutions of the european ombudsman have an irreplaceable place in the institutional framework of the european union. the european ombudsman is a guarantor of the rule of law, justice and good administration for citizens, which is one of the fundamental principles of the european institutions. the role of the european ombudsman is all the more important in that it gives the union a human face. mr diamandouros has held his position with integrity and responsibility for ten years. during this time, he worked tirelessly to address citizens' complaints, contributing to the amicable settlement of mutual disputes between citizens and the european institutions. he also focused his attention on those who needed it most, the disabled. finally, 2012 is a prime example of how the european ombudsman should fulfil his role. in its last year of operation, it launched more than 450 investigations and helped more than 22 000 citizens. overall, i rate mr. diamandouros's performance highly and would like to thank him for his years of tireless work for the benefit of the citizens.
in writing, the council adopted a regulation listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. the regulation has been amended eight times since its adoption. in recent years, some further technical adjustments to the main text of the regulation have become necessary, such as to enhance legal certainty by laying down rules covering certain situations which were not previously covered by the regulation, or to adapt certain definitions following recent changes, such as the adoption of the visa code. lastly, further adjustments are required in view of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, including the adoption of a safeguard clause and the adjustment of the reciprocity mechanism.
in writing − if you have in june 2012, the euro area heads of state or government invited the commission to submit proposals for the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism that would include the european central bank (ecb). in its conclusions of 29 june 2012, the european council invited the president of the european council, in close cooperation with the president of the commission, the president of the eurogroup and the president of the ecb, to develop a concrete roadmap with binding deadlines for achieving a genuine economic and monetary union, consisting of concrete proposals to preserve the unity and integrity of the single market for financial services, taking into account the euro area declaration and the commission's intention to submit proposals on the basis of article 127 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism can, in my view, be considered as a first and important step towards the creation of a european banking union based on a single set of rules for financial services. it would also include a common framework for deposit protection and resolution. however, ensuring a high, effective and uniform level of regulation and supervision throughout the european union, protecting the integrity, efficiency and orderly functioning of financial markets and maintaining the stability of the financial system cannot be satisfactorily achieved at the level of individual member states. but it can be done at the level of the union as a whole.
in writing − if you have today, the stability of the banking sector is often still closely linked to the member state in which banks are based. doubts about the sustainability of public debt, the outlook for economic growth and the viability of credit institutions create negative, mutually reinforcing market trends. the resulting situation is often the cause of specific risks within the euro area, while the single market for financial services is weakened and the economy is in decline. for this reason, and as part of a longer-term vision of economic and fiscal integration, the commission called in may 2012 for the creation of a banking union to restore confidence in banks and the euro. one of its key elements should be a single supervisory mechanism with direct supervision of banks. on the basis of the above, it can be assumed that the pursuit of strict common standards for banking supervision throughout the euro area will contribute to the growth of mutual trust between the member states of the union.
in writing − the banking crisis has fully exposed the weaknesses in the system of supervision of banks by national institutions. the question is whether centralisation of banking supervision is the only and best solution to this problem. i cannot help feeling that the political agreement of the member states on the need for central banking supervision is an expression of a deeper conviction in the need for a federalised europe. but at this point, the european federation has no legitimacy from the citizens. i therefore urge caution in making decisions for which we do not have a clear mandate from the electorate.
in writing − many entities within the union use genetic resources for research or commercial purposes. the instrument governing the management of genetic resources is the convention on biological diversity, adopted on behalf of the european union. it should be our endeavor to minimize the risk of genetic resources being misused. on the contrary, the utmost caution and equal use of the benefits deriving from the issue is desirable. however, the objectives set are easier to achieve at the level of the european union as a whole than at the level of individual member states. it is therefore justified to seek a common and uniform approach.
in writing − the use of genetic resources can be very beneficial, but they are a natural resource that needs to be approached in a very conservative way. nor does technological superiority give any state the right to risk the loss of biodiversity. its threatened status is becoming a serious environmental problem facing mankind. the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of biological and cultural diversity must become a basic condition for any manipulation of the planet's gene pool. i also believe that the application of genetic research must take into account the bioethical aspect in each case.
in writing − access to energy is a fundamental right for all. the european union is increasingly dependent on energy supplies from third countries if it is to be able to adequately meet the demands of individual member states. i believe that it should be in the interest of the union's leaders to manage energy resources economically, while taking into account the interests of all eu citizens. in fact, even the rational sharing of energy can contribute to strengthening the cohesion of society, to successfully combating energy poverty, to creating new jobs and to overall economic growth. this too may ultimately appear as a new approach to resolving the ongoing economic crisis.
i supported the resolution tabled by parliament calling for the pay gap between women and men to be closed more quickly, because i believe that equal pay for equal work is a right. however, that resolution was preceded by a question addressed to the commission by the chair of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. it argues that eliminating wage inequality is a tool to address the demographic crisis. i do not think that this argument can be sustained. if we want to overcome the demographic crisis, we have to look for tools that contribute to the appreciation of the work of mothers. such a tool could be, for example, an increase in contributions for mothers to a pension savings scheme while caring for children.
written − equality is one of the most fundamental values that can be described as a priority for the european union. it is our duty to work towards achieving gender equality in all activities and areas within the union. the economic independence itself, as a consequence of equal pay for men and women, for example, shows that the obligations set out in the question are gradually being fulfilled. the principle of equal pay for men and women for work of equal value is enshrined in the eu treaties. in this spirit, i consider it important to support equal pay initiatives in the workplace and to seek effective remedies for unjustified gender pay gaps.
in writing − if you have recently, organized crime has increasingly infiltrated cyberspace. we are constantly faced with new and new threats from cybercrime, which seems to know no borders. if both financial and human resources could be provided to the desired extent, the european cybercrime centre could be the effective response to the growing cyber threat. the centre would act against potential threats within the european union as a whole and would also seek to raise awareness of cybercrime among the general public. i believe that one of our priorities should be to try to protect european citizens and businesses operating online.
in writing. − the european commission presented the 'europe 2020' strategy back in march 2010 as an effort to effectively face and resist crises while preparing the union's economy for the challenges of the next decade. it aims at a high level of employment, a low-carbon economy, productivity and social cohesion. all this should be achieved through concrete measures not only at national level but also at the level of the european union as such. in this context, the digital agenda for europe is one of the seven flagship initiatives of that strategy. it defines the key role that the use of information and communication technologies (ict) will have to play if europe is to have a real chance of succeeding in its endeavours by 2020. it may be considered justified to seek to exploit to the maximum extent possible the social and economic potential of icts, which can lead to improvements in the quality of everyday life of european citizens.
i support the resolution on the situation in syria. i regret, however, that the joint resolution does not include a rejection of violence against christians and other religious minorities by radical islamic groups. i am convinced that if we want the european union's foreign policy in the middle east to be respected, we should be more consistent in defending christians, who share our values and are often the first victims of armed conflicts in arab countries.
in writing. − violent clashes against peaceful protesters in syria erupted in march 2011. according to the united nations, over a hundred thousand people, mostly civilians, were killed in the country. the attack on the civilian population with chemical weapons, which took place at the end of august of that year, is also strongly condemned. the result of this horrific act is 1,400 victims, of whom about 400 are children. i believe that this serious situation in syria requires a coherent common approach by the member states of the union. it is important to advocate for measures to promote democracy and to make efforts to stop violence in the country.
in writing. - egypt is an important partner of the european union in the southern mediterranean. so far, this country has not made a smooth and peaceful transition to democracy. egypt faces wide-ranging challenges in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, challenges in respect of the concept of 'rule of law', and rising political tensions are increasingly deepening the divisions in egyptian society. as a result of the heated situation, violent clashes are taking place, resulting in widespread loss of life. the interim government reaffirmed its commitment to seeking to build a democratic system that guarantees rights and freedoms for all egyptians. it is appropriate that this effort, together with egypt's efforts to hold free and fair parliamentary and presidential elections, be supported by the european union through appropriate procedures.
in writing − if you have the maritime dimension of the common security and defence policy has recently become increasingly important from the european union's point of view. the report deals with the strategy needed to ensure an integrated and comprehensive approach to respond appropriately to potential threats and risks within the common maritime policy. it seems justified to seek to make the best use of available, already existing, tools to this end, and thus to ensure global maritime safety in an efficient manner.
in writing − the european union's lack of capacity to respond to international crises in a timely and effective manner is an increasingly pressing problem. the military operations in libya and mali, for example, have also shown that there has been no progress in recent times in terms of a genuine common security and defence policy. in this context, it can therefore be considered essential that the current military structures within the eu, at union level as well as at transnational and national level, continue the initiated transformation process of building interoperable and deployable armed forces capable of responding effectively in multinational military operations.
in writing − if you have following the present report, substantial improvements in relations between the european union and belarus depend on the release of political prisoners in belarus, progress in the application of democratic principles or respect for human rights. one of the substantial steps taken by the union in this regard is the effort to facilitate the visa regime with belarus. in general, however, an effort and initiative on the part of belarus is also desirable if there is to be a real and effective deepening of mutual relations. it is reasonable to expect improvement from the country in areas such as trade, energy, or the environment.
in writing − if you have it is clear that russia is continuously applying and gradually intensifying hostile economic and political measures against countries actively seeking closer association and integration with the european union. in an effort to discourage ukraine as one of the eastern partnership countries from signing the association agreement, the russian federation has recently blocked ukrainian imports into russia. the signing of the said agreement should take place at the end of november of that year in lithuania. judging by the conduct of the russian side, it wants to prevent the signing of the document from contributing to the strengthening of mutual relations between the union and the eastern partnership countries. however, any pressure from russia cannot be considered acceptable. as sovereign states, these countries should have full autonomy in decision-making not only on foreign policy issues but also on issues of enhancing mutual cooperation with the european union. there is no place for pressure or intimidation from russia or other states.
in writing − the eu's internal security strategy is based on the ability to respond appropriately to existing or emerging threats. it shall be based on respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law, solidarity and mutual support. organised crime and its highly adverse impact on the internal economy and the internal market can be identified as one of the major threats to internal security today. i the seriousness of the problem, the union will focus its attention on the breakdown of organised crime groups and the recovery of the funds flowing into this criminal activity. several initiatives have already been developed to achieve this objective and i consider it important to continue the initial trend and thus gradually contribute to improving safety as such.
in writing − if you have in particular, technological progress, economic developments and the economic and social crisis have a continuous impact on the working environment and require rapid responses in order to ensure a high level of health and safety at work. however, the other community strategy on health and safety at work adopted for 2007-2012 expired last year and no follow-up policy document has been adopted at union level. this can be seen as a cause for concern, and it is also justified for the commission to seek to present a new european strategy reflecting these issues by the end of 2013.
in writing − the european target is to achieve 75% employment for people aged 20 to 64 by 2020. however, no strategy on health and safety at work has yet been presented. the creation of a level playing field in the field of occupational safety in all member states is directly linked to one of the fundamental european freedoms the free movement of workers. the single european labour market helps to reduce unemployment by increasing the mobility of workers. however, we should be careful in adopting such a strategy, taking into account the health risks on the one hand, but also the preservation of the competitiveness of european producers.
in writing, the crossborder partnerships between the social partners have shown to be good practices in promoting the free movement of workers and the promotion of their rights across borders. it can be seen that it is very important to promote such cross-border partnerships. as far as social dialogue is concerned, it has been successful in promoting employment growth and improving working conditions. both social dialogue and collective bargaining undoubtedly have considerable potential as means of promoting gender equality in the workplace. it is therefore justified to seek to support them at eu level in the future.
in writing − if you have the events of the last period point to the fact that the arrival of unaccompanied minors is not a temporary but a long-term phenomenon accompanying migration to the eu. this is a serious situation and for this reason it is important that the union should take a common approach to it. the reasons for the arrival of unaccompanied children are diverse: the vast majority are fleeing armed conflicts, natural disasters or discrimination. it is also sad that many unaccompanied minors come to eu member states as victims of trafficking. it is essential and important that the european union and the member states take a joint and coherent approach to addressing the issue of unaccompanied minors. finally, it is of the utmost importance that the european union should monitor and continue to apply the guidelines on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child.
in writing − the arrival of unaccompanied minors in the european union is not only a temporary phenomenon but a long-term one accompanying contemporary migration. it is therefore necessary for the union to adopt a common approach to this group of migrants. the reasons for the arrival of unaccompanied children remain diverse and interconnected. some flee armed conflict, natural disasters, discrimination, or persecution. the fact is that some unaccompanied minors arrive as victims of trafficking for exploitation. this sad reality is not limited to south-east asia, where the situation is most critical, but is increasingly being seen in europe as well. when comparing member states, it is clear that migration flows differ. in some countries, unaccompanied minors arrive mainly as asylum seekers. in other member states, asylum flows are relatively low compared to the numbers of children arriving as illegal migrants. the european union must continue to apply its guidelines on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child. in the enforcement of further procedures, it is necessary that these minors are not subjected to unnecessary medical examinations designed to establish their age, precisely in the context of and in accordance with the protection of the abovementioned rights.
in writing − if you have it is clear that the cultural and creative sectors are strong growth drivers and contribute to job creation. these sectors can be found in the arts, cultural heritage, design, television, music, fine or performing arts, archives and libraries, and publishing. however, they also affect other sectors of the economy, and they are responsible for the application of new innovations. their value and contribution are undeniable and it is important that they are given due attention by both the political and the general public.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors encompass a wide range of creative activities and services that, despite the crisis, are delivering good economic results, making a significant contribution to social cohesion and creating new jobs, especially for young people. for the cultural and creative sectors, it is important to define funding options. it is therefore important that member states, regions, local authorities make the best use of eu programmes to support the cultural and creative sectors cohesion policy, structural policy, but also that private capital, public-private partnerships and sponsorship are also integrated for the cultural and creative sectors. in doing so, the cultural and creative sectors must preserve europe's cultural and historical heritage.
for the efd group the renewed armed conflict in the kivu region of eastern congo shows that the drc army is not strong enough to protect the country's civilian population from the various armed groups looting homes and subverting local government in the region. our assistance to the population and the country is organised according to universal schemes that have long been ineffective, because despite the considerable amount of funding provided, the quality of life of the local population is practically unchanged. perhaps we should abandon universal aid schemes and organise aid for each developing country according to the specific situation and the objectives we need to achieve. if we have in the congo, let's call it a legitimate government, which is accepted by the population and has some kind of law and order elements, then we should effectively seek to stabilize the public administration in the country. it means to create in the country such an organization of force and security forces that will protect the population in every part of the country from the robbing armed gangs. history tells us that when the state was unable to guarantee the safety of its citizens, towns and cities would band together and form their own national defense to protect themselves from the raids of robbers and adventurers of all kinds. perhaps not only in the congo, but in other african countries, it would help if the official military forces, in cooperation with un peacekeepers, were to involve the local communities, who are the ones paying the most for the lack of protection, in the protection of the country's territory, and to build a more integrated system of the country with them.
i agree with mr tannock that when we formulate demands on bahrain, we should be constructive and moderate in those demands. the experiences of the african spring have taught us that it is not enough to hear the voice of demand for change. we also need to know the political alternative that will take power. whether it's fundamentalist militant islam or a more just democratic arrangement. in bahrain, we have the ability to modify the political landscape evolutionarily: through dialogue with the government, the king, through gradual political change. the measures taken to improve the status of women or to enable the institution of an ombudsman to be set up suggest that some progress can be made in bahrain through dialogue. of course, we must ask for more. we should demand free media, the release of political prisoners and a more open dialogue with the opposition. but there is room for initiative and we must stick to it.
the european carbon trading system covers some 11 000 companies, which account for more than half of the union's carbon dioxide emissions and around 40% of greenhouse gases. however, emissions trading is in crisis. their supply far exceeds demand and the low price does not motivate firms to innovate. there are more causes for this condition. first, the system does not work as an economic tool, because the number of permits was decided by politicians who, even under pressure from the industry lobby, apparently gave away too much. second, in addition to allowances, firms can also partially cover their emissions with cheap carbon credits from third country projects, which also contributes to the oversupply on the market. third, because of ill-considered policy decisions, there are a number of harmful exceptions to the system. it is clear that the current form of the emissions trading system is more of a burden than a benefit for both companies and consumers. companies lose money that they could invest in production and thus increase employment, while consumers pay for emission allowances in electricity prices because suppliers include their value in electricity prices despite having received the allowances for free. i therefore believe that the whole european emissions trading system needs to be thoroughly reworked as soon as possible.
gendercide, or the deliberate killing of persons of a particular sex, is a most reprehensible crime and a particularly serious problem not only in asia, africa and america, but also in our europe. i consider the current trends in abortion and the mass killing of female newborns to be one of the most serious manifestations of disregard for human life and an absolute violation of fundamental human rights. i would like to reiterate on the floor of this house that we must protect human life as a society from its very beginning, regardless of gender. as legislators, we have a moral obligation to pass clear legislation that condemns all forms of killing of a human being, whether after birth or before birth. there is a very subtle, debatable, even absurd legal boundary between what life is and what life is no longer considered to be.
in my country too, the government has decided to transfer consolidation measures to the regional administration of towns and municipalities. in the bratislava region, for example, it postponed the implementation of the penta project, a high-speed rail link between bratislava and vienna. as the regional government is the main driver of regional development and accounts for up to 60% of public investment, the transfer of consolidation to the regions in 2011 caused a decrease of more than 10% in investment compared to the previous year. i am therefore convinced that a new instrument, led by regional governments and municipalities, would help to achieve a more harmonious development of the regions, by enabling creative groups at local level to develop local strategies for sustainable growth. the application of such an instrument would, i believe, benefit from a greater simplification of the rules and greater flexibility in the planning and delivery of european aid. a period of stagnation or crisis is also characterised by an increasing demand for social services. therefore, we should pay more attention to improving the european social fund, especially for smaller projects at local level.
in writing. smoking is one of the main causes of death in the eu. it kills 700,000 people a year! up to 70% of smokers start smoking before the age of 18. this is where our measures to discourage young people from smoking must go: tougher warnings on cigarette packs and bans on packaging and flavours that are attractive to young people. on the other hand, we must ensure that our measures are effective in combating counterfeiting and smuggling of cigarettes. for that reason, i cannot support the extreme proposal for the size of health warnings. eu health ministers agreed that health warnings should cover 65% of the box. according to information from the ministry of finance of my country, any size above 65% would make it technically impossible to put a check mark on the boxes. this would deprive the eu of an effective tool against counterfeiting and smuggling.
in writing. our discussion should not be about whether smoking is harmful or not. we know that the consumption of tobacco products is harmful to health and member states should strive to reduce the consumption of these products. however, some of the provisions of the commission's proposal raise serious doubts as to their compatibility with fundamental rights, such as the right to property, the right to information and the freedom to conduct a business. we should ensure a sustainable and fair european space for our companies to operate. the proposal introduces excessive regulation of the production and trade of tobacco products, to the detriment of the european internal market. increasing the scope of health warnings on tobacco product packages may be counterproductive. this counterproductivity of new measures may also be shown in the increase in the share of illicit trade. the directive may have a negative impact on the economic situation of smes. it must also be recalled that the increased market for counterfeit tobacco products means that member states are missing an important contribution to the national budget. we must protect the interests of the consumer, whether he is a smoker or a non-smoker. the consumer has a right to full information about the source of the product, which is why i'm in favor of a health warning up to 50%. however, our duty is not only to protect consumers but also producers, who have the right to have their protected trade marks displayed in a transparent manner.
corruption in the third world is reaching enormous proportions. perhaps as much as a third of development aid from the public budgets of third world countries is stolen. this problem can only be solved by increasing the transparency of banks and european companies in third countries, while at the same time increasing the protection of whistleblowers. because there is a significant connection between corruption and human rights violations. the european union must strictly require recipients of foreign aid to protect whistleblowers who point out corrupt practices. it's a matter of human rights in these countries, but also respect for our taxpayers.
in writing. − corruption in the public and private sectors costs nearly 5% of global gdp and the annual bribes paid are equivalent to the estimated gdp of all of africa. i find it scandalous that while 1.4 billion people live in poverty and hunger, some 20-40 billion dollars are annually stolen and hidden from the public budgets of developing countries through corruption, corresponding to 20-40% of official development assistance. i am appalled to find that in the years 2000 to 2009 alone, developing countries lost nearly $8.5 trillion to such practices, ten times the amount of foreign aid they received. as the largest provider of development aid, the european union must ensure that the funds it provides are used in a lawful and ethical manner. i therefore welcome the report by anna gomes on corruption in the public and private sectors and i believe that this report will become a good springboard for rapid improvement of legislation in the fight against corruption.
in writing. − although the eu and the member states have so far adopted a number of measures and instruments to prevent and control the spread of corruption and illicit financial flows, i believe that corruption continues to have a negative impact on all areas of our public life. this is evidenced by published statistics that show that corruption accounts for 5% of global gdp, with over $1 trillion paid in bribes annually. i also find it alarming that corruption increases the cost of doing business globally by up to 10% and the cost of public procurement in developing countries by up to 25%. i supported this current report not only because tackling corruption is one of the eu's key priorities, but also because i consider it to be one of the greatest threats to any democratic and rule of law state. although it is not possible to formulate a specific set of guidelines on anti-corruption measures, i expect the commission to step up its efforts in the fight against corruption. i also expect the commission to create sufficient space for member states to exchange best practices and experience in fighting corruption and complying with commitments made at eu level.
in writing. - i welcome the report on international private and employment law. this owninitiative report of the european parliament provides many useful solutions in relation to the determination of competences in the field of labour law. in the area of jurisdiction, the principle of the protection of the weaker party, which is the employees, must apply in labour law. many existing provisions could be improved for the benefit of employees. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that in cases where the employer is the defendant, the action may be brought either in the courts of the member state in which he is domiciled or, in another member state, in the courts of the place where or from where the employee habitually carries out his work. where such a place cannot be determined, this criterion shall be replaced by the place where the establishment which employed the staff member is situated.
in writing. − the jurisdiction of the european union in the field of the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was strengthened in 2012 by the brussels i regulation. it is not intended to substitute national jurisdiction but, on the contrary, to facilitate substantially the enforcement of judgments in another member state. labour law, on the other hand, is a separate area governed by national rules. however, in the past, individual member states' employment legislation has shown to differ significantly. it is absurd for a court in one state to be bound by the law of another state merely because of the vague establishment of the rules, as was the case with dfds toreline in 2004. in cases where the employer is the defendant, the case may be dealt with in the state where the employer is domiciled or in the place where the employee habitually carries out his work. if the usual place of work cannot be identified, the brussels i regulation provides for an emergency criterion concerning the place of business. problems may arise in the international transport sector. for airline employees or truck drivers, it is often difficult to reveal where an employee has been working since the company may be registered in different member states. i therefore welcome the report presented by the rapporteur, mrs regner, and i believe that by clarifying the rules on jurisdiction in employment matters we will help to speed up the resolution of disputes and better protect workers in other countries.
in writing. − i consider the fight against smoking, which causes incalculable damage to human life and health every year, to be an essential part of public health protection. health warnings are justified within an organised and long-term anti-smoking strategy. anti-smoking campaigns should target adolescents, who are often unaware of the real risks and consequences of smoking, as these are downplayed or deliberately ignored by the environment and the media. i also believe that we need to step up the protection of the rights of non-smokers, and in particular young people and children, against second-hand smoke, which causes many health risks, including asthma. special protection must also be provided to women during pregnancy in order to prevent diseases of human foetuses and newborns caused by the consumption of tobacco products by their mothers. furthermore, campaigns to prevent sudden infant death should inform parents that smoking in the presence of newborn babies can cause their sudden death. it also seems logical to me that tobacco manufacturers should be financially responsible for healthcare costs arising from tobacco consumption, in accordance with the principle of producer responsibility for damage caused.
in writing. - i consider mauritania to be one of the poorest and least developed countries, financially dependent on foreign aid. as the coastal waters along the 753 kilometres of coastline are among the richest fishing grounds in the world and, from an economic point of view, mauritania's fisheries account for 50% of export earnings and 29% of gross national product, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only clear and precise terms between the eu and the islamic republic of mauritania will ensure a level playing field for all fleets fishing in the mauritanian fishing zone. i consider it very positive that the protocol not only provides eu vessels with new fishing opportunities in waters where mauritania exercises its sovereignty or jurisdiction over fisheries, but also that a financial contribution of eur 67 million for access to fisheries resources and a financial contribution of eur 3 million per year for the development of the sectoral fisheries policy of the islamic republic of mauritania is provided at eu level. i am very pleased that this protocol creates a new legal framework that will allow eu vessels to fish for surplus fish stocks in mauritania's fishing zones and that the eu financial contribution will help to boost employment development in this country.
i am glad that the socialist group has brought the issue of the dangers of abortion to the agenda of this parliament. it affects all women, regardless of member state or political party. terminating a pregnancy based on the sex of the fetus is a perversion and leads to a demographic imbalance. health risks and health-care costs are also increasing. i also ask the commission to respect the reservations on sexual and reproductive rights and termination of pregnancy expressed by states in international treaties, conventions and programmes. in my amendments i have tried to incorporate these international commitments into the resolution. the vote by name on my proposals will be published as proof of a genuine member's, members of the european parliament's position on the abortion of unborn girls.
in writing. − gender-based homicide has become a global phenomenon in recent years. gendercide occurs mainly in cultures where there is a strong preference for male offspring, with the female population subject to persistent stereotypes. other motives are declining birth rates and pressure to start small families. none of the above causes legitimize gender-based murder in any way. the gender-selective decision, the selective abortion or the killing of a child born solely on the basis of its sex is associated with the prevailing unequal perception of the status of both sexes in individual countries. discriminatory attitudes in some cultures are so ingrained that they affect the overall status of women in society. access to healthcare, education, social security and unequal treatment in employment are just some of the consequences of gender discrimination and human rights violations. i am fully aware of the complexity of tackling gendercide, as well as gender discrimination in countries with similar practices. on the other hand, i firmly believe that, through the cooperation of the european commission, the member states, civil society and international organisations, we will not only be able to put in place support measures to prevent gender-based killings, but also to shape, through education and positive example, the overall perception of the position of both sexes in patriarchal societies.
in writing. − i received the report with concern because i consider any selection based on sex, which takes the form of infanticide and violence of any level, to be a senseless manifestation of discrimination and a violation of human rights. i voted in favour of this report because it not only sets out the state of play in the field of gender equality, but also makes proposals and suggestions to address the democratic and legal deficits that are causing not only the growing but also, in some countries, the underestimated problem of gendercide. although the solution itself is very complex, i personally consider it crucial not only from the point of view of the eu but also from the point of view of all countries. i expect all stakeholders at different levels to work towards compliance and, where they do not exist, the adoption of legislation in the area of gender management and restriction that promotes the application of gender equality, equal opportunities and equal partnership. i also expect that the eu and the relevant countries concerned will take strong measures to ensure that forced abortions and operations to terminate a pregnancy on the basis of sex are not carried out without the prior consent of the woman concerned.
the global economic crisis and the austerity policies of many member states have drastically reduced revenues for regional and local authorities. we decided that, despite the doubts, the use of the european funds, i.e. the reallocation of public budgets, is an effective way of promoting local development, the economy and employment. it is therefore necessary to promote the greatest possible flexibility for member states in the use of the structural funds. these are mainly smaller territorial units that need funds for investments in infrastructure and public services. as a result of the application of the stability and growth pact, there is scope for this flexibility and it should be used.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis is severely constraining member states' public finances. this means that regional and local authorities are unable to provide productive investment. on the one hand, they are experiencing a significant decline in their income, and on the other hand, they have to provide social services with increasing expenditure. it is important to make concrete proposals to ensure that, during the period of strict implementation of the stability and growth pact, national co-financing is linked as flexibly as possible to eu development expenditure. this requires knowledge of the extent to which the crisis has affected the ability of sub-national authorities to meet the europe 2020 targets for growth and jobs. proposals should be made to improve the capacity of these institutions to finance productive investments. i agree with the report that asks the commission to report on this subject, as requested by the so-called 'dual package': 'state expenditure related to the implementation of programmes co-financed under cohesion policy and rural development policy should be excluded from the restrictions of the stability and growth pact, as this expenditure is intended to support competitiveness and growth; exploiting the possibilities provided by the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact to strike a balance between the need for productive public investment and the objective of fiscal discipline. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis has contributed significantly to increasing disparities between regions in the eu, with the poorest regions in the new member states and in southern europe suffering the most. it is in the most affected areas that cohesion policy finds its true meaning and mission as the main investment instrument for convergence and sustainable development. regional and local authorities play an irreplaceable role in socioeconomic development at local level, which the state, from its central level of management, somehow does not control. member states must therefore systematically facilitate the use of the funds by the regions and enable them to make use of the new resources allocated to the 2014-2020 programming period as quickly as possible. in conclusion, i would agree with the view that macroeconomic conditionality could cause problems in the implementation of cohesion policy, affect the most affected regions and, moreover, jeopardise the achievement of the eu's long-term objectives.
the european research area is a very important discipline that we need to cultivate in the years 2014 to 2020. the question is whether europe will be competitive in the future, whether our researchers will have new patents, whether these patents will be put to real practical use and, of course, will bring employment, because this is also one of the main problems and challenges of the european union. innovation brings job creation, the creation of new opportunities, and the bearers of such trends are the universities in the regions, not just in the capitals. there are also universities in the regions, creating clusters, creating space for young researchers. smes are best placed to respond to these challenges and to use these new applications in their production. i would also like to emphasize that we have to completely change the way we teach young people not just in engineering and math, but to do it the way they do in america or japan.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, approving the resolution to open trade negotiations with taiwan is a step in the right direction towards strengthening the eu’s relations with taiwan both culturally and economically. over the past two decades, bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan has multiplied twelvefold, with trade between the two economies growing to eur 40 billion in 2011. even with this growth, trade between the eu and taiwan is still below its potential. taiwan is a rock-solid democracy and a vibrant economy that has many benefits to offer to the eu. a few years ago, when i argued in the committee on international trade meetings for a stronger trade relationship to harvest those benefits, the reply from the commission was that we did not want to be the first. the message was clear: the eu did not want to provoke china and wanted to see china’s reaction to taiwan’s ftas with other countries. now that china, the usa, south korea, singapore and new zealand are either negotiating, or have concluded, free trade investment and trade agreements with taiwan, can the eu afford to be left behind? the answer to this question should be very clear. to benefit citizens on both sides, negotiations on a stronger and deeper trade and investment agreement between the eu and taiwan should begin sooner rather than later.
taiwan is the union's seventh largest trading partner in asia. it is therefore in our mutual interest to deepen our cooperation in this area. i therefore want to support the negotiation of trade agreements between the union and taiwan. the stabilisation of relations between taiwan and china has created the conditions for the eu to extend its activities through taiwan towards china and south-east asia. it should be remembered that the eu should make more use of taiwan's position in research and development to improve the long-term growth and competitiveness of its own industry. the experience from slovakia confirms that taiwanese investments are coming to sectors with high added value. the possibility of more active negotiation in investment protection agreements and other mutually beneficial agreements should therefore be sought.
the unannounced tightening of border controls at the lithuanian-russian border against carriers importing goods into the russian federation is a serious problem. a quantity of goods originating in other countries of the european union is transported through lithuania to the russian federation and therefore the customs measures are directly transferred to the other countries of the union. the russian federation is one of the european union's most important trading partners and therefore a proper trade relationship with such a partner should be in the mutual interest, that is to say, in the interest of both parties. the resolution of this unilateral action by the russian authorities must therefore become one of the most important tasks of our trade diplomacy, so that the unannounced tightening of customs controls does not lead to more serious trade problems with consequences for both the european and russian economies. i am convinced, mr commissioner, that there is no need to hesitate for long and that we must begin to negotiate the problem factually and constructively with the other side, that is to say, with our russian partners.
the diversity of vessels used for recreational purposes can be a problem for the formulation of a universal regulation governing the legislative requirements for their safety and environmental characteristics. the work of all those involved in the drafting of the directive, namely the commission and the rapporteur of the european parliament, mr malcolm harbour, should therefore be commended. as the directive applies to all vessels, from small inflatable motor-powered dinghies to large sea-going yachts, it was necessary to find common basic requirements, compliance with which will need to be monitored. the focus on the stability and safety of the vessel, the safety of the engine and electrical equipment, and the environmental impact of the operation in terms of noise and exhaust emissions appears to be logical and appropriate. i am therefore convinced that these newly proposed assessment procedures will contribute to improving the assessment of a wide range of recreational craft.
last month, the british newspaper the sun reported on an incident aboard a civilian airbus 330 that left the plane on automatic control during a long flight because both pilots fell asleep. the pilots who confessed the incident to the civil aviation authority attributed their failure to overwork and long work shifts. in the interest of aviation safety, we must therefore be very sensitive to this indirect call for help from professional pilots and consider with full seriousness the limitation of flight duty time to a maximum of 10 hours, with a maximum combined flight duty standby time of 18 hours. i am convinced that the discussion on the limits of air services must be based on a factual and professional, and in particular an independent, assessment of the workload of pilots and cannot be determined without the cooperation of those responsible for the lives of passengers during the flight. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i confess that i do not understand your speech, because what i quoted, i quoted from information that i had officially available, and perhaps you are talking about another case. but i'm talking about a case that was published publicly in the media, so it's assumed that the civil aviation authority, which confirmed these data, is correct.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the proposal to amend the directive brings new updates to the legislative framework that can significantly strengthen the areas related to the quality of environmental impact assessment of projects across the eu. i also consider the updating of the directive to be important because the changes can help the union in the areas of resource sustainability, climate change and the increase in cross-border environmental problems. i am pleased that the revised directive continues to harmonise the principles of environmental impact assessment, which can ultimately play a key role in achieving resource efficiency. as one of the main objectives of the amendment of the directive is to achieve better implementation at member state level, i expect that at all levels of its governance, the often lengthy and complicated procedures will be eliminated, the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedures will be improved and the dialogue at the level of all stakeholders affected by the implementation of the project will be strengthened. i believe that this will also ensure a higher degree of transparency and the right of the public to participate in decision-making on environmental issues.
in writing. − the practice of mobility within europe for the purpose of employment. it is therefore appropriate to continuously improve the regulatory framework for the free movement of workers. i voted in favor of the idea. in the european labour market, european workers should be given a regulatory framework that strengthens their competitive position and at the same time contributes to the smoothing of labour relations in the internal market. new technologies have opened up opportunities, and the professional card and the imi system can help to further strengthen the system of trust between member states. this is necessary not only for the benefit of professionals but also for the benefit of patients and consumers. we need to recognise that there is an urgent need to address language difficulties and that all member states need to be involved. i consider it of the utmost importance that in member states with more than one language officially recognised as an official or common language, employers and competent authorities should also encourage the knowledge of an additional language. this requires language learning opportunities. it is not possible to treat all professional qualifications in the same way, but we must strive to ensure that young and experienced professionals are able to meet the changing needs of the labour market. the european approach is an advantage in most professions. however, it is in the interest of legal certainty that, for example, notaries' official activities linked to a member state are not covered by the directive and, within that framework, by the principle of freedom to provide services.
in writing. − one of the factors contributing to the high unemployment rate is the low labour mobility which persists over the long term although the free market is also based on freedom of movement under the treaties. despite the goodwill of many workers, moving to work outside their home country is not a simple matter, given the absence of a clear legal framework for the recognition of professional qualifications at european level. there are currently around 800 types of regulated professions and the specific rules correspond not only to objective professional requirements but also to the cultural customs of the individual member states. the present directive contributes to addressing this complex situation in practice. i consider it desirable to ensure minimum standards for the various professions in order to guarantee a high quality of service in all member states and, above all, the safety and health protection of consumers and patients. in this context, i welcome the possibility of introducing a mechanism for monitoring training, which will help to increase mutual trust between the member states. i also see the alert mechanism in the event of withdrawal of the right to exercise an activity as a step in the right direction.
in writing. - i voted for the motion and i'm sorry it didn't pass. this parliament has already adopted certain rules on food labelling, but the commission does not seem to take note of this. the fact that today's motion for a resolution has not found sufficient support among members sets a precedent for the future. what has just happened is a sign of the commission's lack of respect for the european parliament.
in writing. - the syrian civil war has caused a humanitarian catastrophe of enormous proportions. the conditions in the overcrowded refugee camps are truly inhumane, and that is why i supported the resolution before us, despite some reservations. my doubts concern the willingness of our citizens to accept thousands of immigrants at a time when many are already speaking out about the failure of the policies of multiculturalism that have been in place. without clearly defining in our countries not only the rights of immigrants, but also their responsibilities and our expectations of them, it is not possible to make realistic asylum and immigration policies. and i am also concerned by the fact that currently only two embassies - the russian and the holy see - are operating in damascus. because the flow of refugees will only stop if there is peace in syria. if we want to help bring peace, we need to actively talk to all sides of the conflict. and that's hard to do when we don't have a single diplomat on the ground.
in writing. i want to support the efforts and the efforts of all those who condemn the rise of right-wing extremism in europe. each of us is certainly facing the rise of populism, extremism and other forms of intolerance in our member states. even in member states where tolerance has been the basis of the functioning of the state, parties whose platform is based on populism, extremism and intolerance towards other races, religions and ethnicities have been gaining more and more favour in recent elections. we must therefore condemn such manifestations in their embryonic form, take revenge among the people, patiently explain that the cause of the crisis, the growing poverty and unemployment is not other ethnicities, races or religions. the european union has won the nobel peace prize. therefore, in combating the daily manifestations of intolerance, xenophobia, racism and intolerance, let us prove that this prize was deserved. we must all be involved in this fight, and member states must clearly condemn and punish all forms of extremism, xenophobia and racism in their laws.
in writing. colleagues, the rise of right-wing extremism is not a mere fashion, but a serious social phenomenon. it is the search for answers to the problems that have arisen in the form of violence, terror, intimidation and, of course, the fight against democracy and basic human norms. it's a renewal of intolerance, but always by elevating the privileged against those whom it blames for all the evil in the world. sometimes they're immigrants, asylum seekers, then jews, sometimes uncomfortable neighbors, gypsies, or other minorities. right-wing extremism is always full of hatred and superiority. he doesn't shy away from using aggression and violence to assert his superiority. there is always some form of racism and anti-humanity behind it. but what is more dangerous is the way it tries to present itself: as a guide to solving the problems that really bother people (unemployment, impoverishment, conflicts between different cultures and customs ...). today, right-wing extremism often takes the form of a fight against the european project. that is because european integration is the most powerful weapon against nationalism, war, ethnic intolerance and the historical burdens we still carry within us. there is no better and more effective response to right-wing extremism than deepening european integration. if we don't continue this project, the whole of europe will break up into small states, which will then start to assert their claims against their neighbours, and the road to war will be opened again. we can't let that happen.
the commission proposal for a regulation provides that the european border surveillance system (eurosur) is to help strengthen operational cooperation between the national authorities of the member states, improve mutual information between them and improve their cooperation with the european agency for the management of operational cooperation (frontex). the newly established eurosur is intended to provide national authorities and frontex with the infrastructure and tool to improve their situational awareness and response capacity for the operational detection of illegal immigration and cross-border crime. i therefore think it is important to ensure that the system also has the potential to connect to the systems and infrastructures of third countries neighbouring the european union. however, given the ambiguity regarding the way of management, the proposed financing system appears to be unnecessarily complicated. the proposal does not provide sufficient clarity on how the measures to be implemented in neighbouring third countries or the activities of the national coordination centres are to be financed. it thus appears that some practical matters will still need to be worked out.
i agree with my colleagues that our negotiations, our proposals for the work of the us national security agency should not be hysterical. our response should be substantive, based on the findings of our bodies and institutions empowered to investigate breaches of union law. secretary cohen's letter, as much as we respect it, cannot replace the work of our investigative agencies. therefore, i think our first step should have been to initiate a probe of suspicion by europol and its cyber arm a long time ago. and, of course, any suspicions or findings should then be reported to our american partners. commissioner, to expect that our citizens will tolerate the inaction of their bodies, which are supposed to guarantee them the protection of their right to privacy, for a long time, is insensitive. european citizens, especially the younger ones, are increasingly well-informed and educated and are able to identify our responsibilities. so you must expect us members to keep reminding you of this problem.
mr president, russia has been on our radar for a number of reasons. now the sochi olympic games are approaching swiftly and so is the fear that the olympic charter might not be respected. it is clear that the situation in the country is serious. we are seeing a russia that is cracking down heavily on civil society and bullying its neighbours, and we must react to that. what is worrisome about the situation is the unprecedented double domestic and international pressure that it is exerting. first of all, russia is intensively targeting its civil society, spreading fear and making the work of certain ngos impossible. the passing of the so-called ‘foreign agent law’ and the federal law banning gay propaganda are the most flagrant examples of the extremely discriminatory legislation that has been passed in the last months. these two laws are not only repressive, but they make room for arbitrary interpretation of the law. the justice system then becomes a tool of political power. it creates a society in which certain groups are vulnerable and treated as second-class citizens. second, russia is increasingly exerting pressure on its neighbours, whether it is pressure on armenia to join the customs union or on ukraine, which stands at the crossroads between the east and the west or, as we have seen this week, the trade pressure on lithuania. as the situation in russia deteriorates, we should not be silent and we should express our concerns in a very clear and categorical way.
the specific nature of the work of the committee on petitions is that, when dealing with petitions, meps communicate directly with citizens who turn to the european parliament with their requests for a solution to their problems. the annual report presented gives a detailed account of the wide range of petition complaints. the number of petitions received by the committee on petitions from all over europe shows that citizens expect us to intervene to some extent in the enforcement of effective measures to protect their rights. in the context of the review of the committee's activities during 2012, i think it would be good to also mention what needs to be improved in the committee's work in the coming period. i am convinced that the secretariat and the committees should more strictly respect their legislative limits, given by the competences of the european parliament, the committee on petitions and its rules of procedure. the opening of petitions which, within the limits set out above, do not fall within the remit of the committee on petitions is evidence of a certain voluntarism or incompetence of the committee's expertise. i also find the approach of ensuring the understanding of the debate on serious subjects discussed in committee insufficient. many serious negotiations on problems facing citizens in virtually all countries of the european union are translated into only a small group of selected languages, and therefore public negotiations on these matters, even broadcast on parliamentary television, are completely incomprehensible to a large proportion of union citizens. the secretariat is also unable to provide the necessary interpretation for the permanent members of the committee. similarly, the circulation of important documents relating to open petitions should be subject to better rules. important documents containing the views of the governments of the countries concerned or judgments of the european court of human rights should never be withheld from the members of the committee when they are discussing the problem in question.
for the efd group. we all know that the production and use of batteries and accumulators containing cadmium is a problem in terms of their environmental impact. cadmium from batteries can also penetrate the human body, to which it is toxic, and cause serious damage if handled improperly. it is therefore necessary to consistently promote appropriate collection and recycling systems that can achieve up to 100% recycling of cadmium from portable batteries and accumulators. the commission therefore concluded that the dumped imports from the prc had caused material injury to the union industry. the commission's proposal to phase out nickel-cadmium batteries in europe by the end of 2015 is therefore an administrative measure aimed at protecting the environment and promoting new technologies, which are however more expensive and technologically challenging. therefore, i agree with the rapporteur that a better compromise towards the european public would be a date for the end of the use of nickel-cadmium batteries by the end of 2016 and possibly beyond.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate my colleague panayotov on his excellent work. in 2011, 40% of all electric hand tools were classified as cordless electric hand tools. today, the largest proportion of cordless power tools are nickel-cadmium, nickel-metal hydride and lithium-ion rechargeable batteries. of these, 70% were lithium-ion battery powered and 27% were nickel-cadmium battery powered. however, it should be noted that the reverse is true for the central and eastern european member states. it will take more time to completely eliminate the market for batteries containing cadmium in this region. due to its harmful effects on the environment and human health, cadmium is included in the list of substances of greatest concern. when it accumulates in the environment and in the human body, it is toxic because it persists indefinitely and often causes irreversible damage. given the possibility of 100% recycling of collected nickel-cadmium batteries, the risks are manageable and less significant. the extension of the exemption for one year would allow for a reasonable compromise. this would protect the interests of both consumers and businesses along the entire value chain.
in writing. − the use of batteries and accumulators containing cadmium or mercury poses many problems in terms of their loading, consumption and subsequent disposal. because cadmium is a chemical element that cannot be broken down by the human body, it accumulates. moreover, cadmium and its compounds are toxic not only to humans but also to the environment. i fully support the introduction of efficient collection and recycling systems, as the cadmium contained in many appliances can be 100% recycled. in this way, we would achieve a significant reduction in risks to humans and the environment. i believe that stricter rules on the use of batteries and accumulators will take account of the economic context of the sector and contribute to limiting the release of harmful substances into the environment.
in writing. - i supported this resolution because i consider any violation of the dignity of the human person to be unacceptable. caste systems represent a significant barrier to understanding the value of every human life. in countries where they exist, they prevent society from exploiting the full potential of entire groups of its members - a potential that, because of caste belonging, can never be realised. i agree that the european union and its member states should make it clear in their foreign and trade policies that they consider caste discrimination to be unacceptable. but if we want our stand on the issue of human dignity to be taken seriously, we should stop funding the killing of unborn children from public funds. because the european court of justice has already made it clear that the human embryo has a human dignity that must be protected. pointing the finger at the caste system in asia and teaching children that abortion is a form of family planning is schizophrenia.
with regard to the situation in syria, i would like to draw attention to an interesting difference between the two resolutions. when we talked about refugees in syria, it was concrete measures at sea, in visa policy, in humanitarian aid. but when we speak of christians who are constantly persecuted, we are expressing concern and concern all around us. yet, i alone have repeatedly pointed out that religious intolerance and persecution of christians is a systemic problem in almost all muslim-majority countries. many times these are countries to which europe pays billions in development aid. but we can see that the empty demands of this parliament are going nowhere. the protection of christians and religious freedom must therefore become one of the essential conditions for freedom and our assistance to these countries. our diplomacy needs to do more to get our partners to take these conditions seriously.
iraq is one of many countries in the world that shows us that the violent overthrow of a regime, even if imperfect but at least politically stable, can lead to the complete breakdown of society and uncontrolled violence between ethnic and religious groups. the fact that nearly 5,000 civilians have been killed in the country since the beginning of the year, including nearly a thousand in september alone, confirms the anarchy, intolerance and lawlessness that reign in the country. we share some responsibility for this situation, since several member states of the union took part in the armed liquidation of the previous iraqi regime. it is therefore our duty to continue the political and economic aid to the people of this country and to put pressure on the representatives of the local administration, as well as the representatives of the local ethnic and religious groups, to curb their passions and to seek to resolve their disputes and conflicts in a more peaceful way, without violence against the people of the country.
for the efd group. the meeting of eu heads of state or government in vilnius at the end of november will certainly be a good opportunity to update the union's trade policy positions towards the eastern partnership countries. the main topic will certainly be the key decisions on the signing of the prepared agreements with ukraine. however, other eastern partnership countries, such as georgia, moldova, armenia, azerbaijan and belarus, are also undergoing political developments and their readiness to conclude free trade agreements will therefore be properly assessed on this occasion, and alternative models of trade cooperation will be considered where appropriate. in any case, the negotiations in vilnius were also worth considering how to reduce the considerable tension between russia and the union over the union's growing commercial and political influence on the former russian territory. perhaps at least a verbal declaration, for example, that the union considers it a beneficial initiative to prepare a project to extend the broad-gauge line from asia through ukraine to vienna, would suggest to the russians that the purpose of the union's greater cooperation with its former satellites is to work towards the best possible cooperation with russia. we should also be concerned about good and constructive relations with the russian federation, which remains an important strategic partner for us. but the possibility of using the transcontinental railway from the centre of europe to the pacific may also be of interest to many of our exporters. i think, mr. commissioner mimica, that we should not give in to anything. but we should bear in mind that we need to send signals to the russians that we can also envisage new forms of profitable, effective cooperation with them.
the reporter. − first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups for their valuable contributions and cooperation in the preparation of the special report on the review of education in our committee, some of whom are after all sitting here. i'm a little sorry that our commissioner, mrs. vassiliou, isn't here, but she's probably got other things to do. i believe that, through an open discussion on cooperation, we have succeeded in producing a report that truly reflects the current challenges in education and will serve as a source of inspiration for the member states and also for educational institutions throughout the european union and perhaps beyond. i think that today everyone is aware that the situation of young people in the european union is really critical, especially when we talk about unemployment. as a result, in july 2013, we had unemployment of 23.4%, which is actually 5.5 million young people, but we also have a large number of jobs or jobs in which these young people could actually apply in some way, but they do not have the appropriate education. i think we should not just talk about the problem, but we should come up with concrete solutions. this is, after all, one of the main tasks we have tried to reflect in this report. we can certainly tackle unemployment in two ways, the first being the immediate guarantee for young people, which we in the european parliament have supported. but we also need to think about the long-term solution to this problem, and that is precisely what we believe as the education committee in the reform of the education system in the european union. we have not only looked at the specific role of education, the fight against unemployment, but also at the role of education as such in preparing individuals for life, which must go hand in hand with the development of personal competences and social attitudes. we support the european commission in saying that it is of paramount importance to identify the skills that young people need and the challenges for students and people entering the labour market. on the other hand, however, our report sought to find a solution which would allow individuals to retain the necessary personal and economic independence. every human being has the right to access education. if we want this to become a reality, we need to invest in quality education in a long-term and sustainable way. in parallel, we must also use complementary tools to increase opportunities for personal well-being and development, and this aspect must be fully recognised at union as well as national levels. the real education systems in countries with the lowest youth unemployment rates, which we consider to be such exemplary, and these are specifically countries like austria and germany, should serve as an example that we need to have a balance between theoretical knowledge and also practical skills and experience that people acquire during education. young people in the european union today are coming out of the education process, they have a lot of theoretical knowledge, but they have a minimum of experience, which is understandable, but they also may not have the skills they need for the labour market. this is why we highlight the dual education systems mentioned above, the need for and recognition of non-formal and informal learning, and the benefits of volunteering for the individual and society. working in youth organisations and completing a quality, professional traineeship are in fact opportunities that develop individuals' skills and also facilitate the transition of the student from school to the labour market. we can already define what skills will be the skills of the future, we know that they are languages, that they are information and communication technologies, that they are healthcare skills. we also know the jobs we will need in the future, and that is why we should also be aligning our education systems in the european union. but it is also important to develop individual, personal competencies, critical thinking, teamwork, problem solving, communication, self-confidence, etc. these are important skills that young people may need for work, but also for private life. i can speak for another 10 minutes, but what is perhaps important to mention in this context is certainly the very important context of lifelong learning, adult learning, which we strongly support as the education committee, and also cooperation with all the institutions in the field of education, the labour market, but also the non-profit sector in the european union.
rapporteur. − mr president, i understand that there is a special catch-the-eye procedure. there are several colleagues in this chamber who are working on the paper, and i would especially like to mention mrs hübner, who is the shadow rapporteur. she did not get the chance to speak. i just wanted to point that out.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − mr president, here is my short message from the committee on international trade. over the past years, international trade has been a viable tool for mitigating the negative impact of the economic and financial crisis and has registered a positive trend. as a result of eu activity, important trade agreements have been concluded with south korea, colombia, peru, moldova, ukraine, georgia and, just last week, with canada. others are ongoing, particularly with japan, the usa, and, from last week also, with china. given the positive impact that trade policy can have on the daily lives of eu citizens, the relevant budget lines should receive sufficient financial and human resources. we appreciate the substantial increase in funding for the partnership instrument, but we deplore the reduction for aid for trade, a key measure for the least-developed countries. we support the extension of pa euromed innovation, but we strongly warn the commission not to fund new eu business centres or increase funds for existing centres without fully reflecting on, and reviewing the role and the functioning of, the existing structures in asia. i hope the general rapporteur will take into account the concerns and appreciation of the committee on international trade.
in writing. −kyrgyzstan went through a difficult and traumatic transition in 2010. the country's economy has been deeply affected by the financial crisis and the violence associated with the country's revolution. these events resulted in kyrgyzstan becoming the first democracy among the modern central asian republics. these republics are characterised externally by democratic institutions and also by a number of democratic institutions and principles, but remain more or less authoritarian. kyrgyzstan is among the poorest countries in the region, unlike kazakhstan or uzbekistan, it is not rich in mineral resources or land area. as early as 2010, the international community decided to contribute $1.1 billion, and the european union pledged €117.9 million in macro-financial assistance (mfa). i consider this type of financial statement to be extremely important. i myself had the opportunity to visit kyrgyzstan in 2010 and 2012 and to participate in an observation mission. stabilisation of kyrgyzstan is crucial not only for the country itself but also for the whole central asian region. however, we must be careful about the reallocation of these funds, and i therefore support the council's position that there should be clear rules for this reallocation.
the proposal for a directive regulates the market in in vitro diagnostic devices and in the determination and analysis of dna. this is about setting minimum standards, for example, for the use of dna tests. in particular, it is important that in the future, counselling by qualified professionals should be made compulsory throughout the european union. in particular, the issue of informed consent, which is one of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter of the european union, is important. only informed patients can take responsibility for often very serious decisions concerning their lives and health.
in writing. − i would like to thank rapporteur petr lies for his excellent work on the in vitro diagnostic report, as safe and high-quality diagnosis is a fundamental pillar of medical care. the need for stricter regulation has arisen in particular in view of the poorly documented quality of several hiv or dna tests, the incorrect results or interpretation of which can have fatal consequences. a european surveillance system is necessary given that there are no national borders on the european market for these products. i particularly appreciate the efforts to strengthen ethical safeguards, especially on the issue of informed consent, where dna tests cannot be used without appropriate and responsible genetic counselling to provide sufficient information before the test is carried out.
in writing. − health and safety of diagnostic equipment or devices is one of the eu's priorities. in vitro diagnostic devices also fall into this category. these are medical devices intended for use in diagnosis outside the human body, which may be carried out in a laboratory or in the vicinity of the patient, for example at bedside. this includes a wide range of tests, such as self- blood sugar tests, hiv tests and dna tests. in vitro diagnostic medical devices are products which are freely available on the common market. however, the current directive does not guarantee that low-quality diagnostic medical devices of this type will not be placed on the market. a substandard hiv test has entered the european market. this type of test produced far more false negatives than other available hiv tests. so the tests showed no virus, when in fact, it was there. however, this product has been available to patients in europe for several years. there are many issues where the european commission proposes to regulate in vitro diagnostic medical devices in the same way as other medical devices. there are no national borders for these products on the european market. the european union is therefore obliged to ensure the greatest possible security.
in writing. − i supported the report because i believe that the changes and proposed measures can strengthen and improve the current status and system for in vitro diagnostic medical devices in a more significant way. i understand that the application of the principle of free movement of goods in trade in in vitro diagnostic medical devices varies considerably between member states. it is of concern that in vitro diagnostic medical devices are often placed on the eu market of poor quality, endangering life, and posing a risk not only to patients, users but also to healthcare professionals. i think that whether we consider in vitro diagnostic medical devices as 'little sisters' or 'parents', we must first of all consider safety and the protection of human health. while there have been several positive developments in the field of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which represent a wide range of products, i expect that the market surveillance system will be strengthened, the public safety and oversight of the entire certification system will be improved and a better system for devices in the highest risk classes will be introduced to address the shortcomings.
in writing. − i welcome this necessary revision of the legislation with an emphasis on improving access to medical devices, but in particular their safety for patients. safety is the key point in the approval process based on sufficient clinical trials. those devices which are intended to be implanted in the body must be subject to particularly stringent criteria, which will be ensured by the establishment of specific notified conformity assessment bodies. such bodies shall operate in an efficient, transparent and qualified manner. i want to stress the importance of an independent ethics committee, which must give an opinion before the start of a clinical trial, as is the case with clinical trials of medicines. all member states must ensure the proper functioning of such commissions.
in writing. − as with the in vitro diagnostic medical device report, i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important part of the safety, quality and efficacy of medical devices, which aims to address safety concerns related to these products. while some other changes and measures could be incorporated into the new regulatory framework, i am pleased that the commission is coming up with a solution to classify medical devices into four categories according to the level of risk to patients. i believe that these changes can help to eliminate the serious shortcomings that have emerged in the past. i expect that medical devices that pose the greatest risks to patients will be subject to more stringent procedures and not just conformity assessment by notified bodies. i find it very worrying that the functioning of notified bodies has been judged to be very weak in recent times. this is evidenced by the fundamental differences in the conformity assessments carried out, the lack of transparency of these organisations, their vigilance, etc. i am convinced that the provisions on the staffing of notified bodies will be strengthened at national level in order to improve this situation.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because it aims at a high level of health protection for both patients and medical device operators. i believe that medical devices on the european union market must be safe not only for patients but also for the healthcare professionals who use or operate them and for lay people who come into contact with them. not only nurses and doctors are at risk, but also nurses, laboratory workers, and support staff. medical devices must be subject to the strictest controls. manufacturers of both original and refurbished devices should collect data on whether they meet all the requirements for functionality and safety. at the same time, however, any increase in costs must not jeopardise the availability of these devices to all those who need them.
in writing. − we have already called in the past, together with our colleagues from the new member states, for the deletion of article 4 from this regulation. the reason was the interests of our citizens working and living abroad, who will have no one to represent them in the eu council from next year. according to the original text of the demographic statistics regulation, they would be included among the residents of the state in which they live at that time. however, since they cannot vote in parliamentary elections, the host government would not represent their interests on eu soil, even though this would give it more weight in votes in the eu council. the text adopted today is a compromise which allows member states to use statistical estimates for representation in the council, while at the same time extending the definition to cover legal and registered residence. i supported this compromise, although i think that omitting this paragraph is a better solution.
in writing. − although the sahel is one of the poorest and most vulnerable countries in the world, i believe that the region has enormous economic and human potential. although some progress has been made in the region in recent years, i consider the macroeconomy to remain fragile and vulnerable, in particular with regard to recurring conflicts, persistent poverty, frequent climate change and natural disasters, and overall low human development. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report he has presented, because it not only fully exposes the problems of the sahel region with regard to human rights violations, but also offers suggestions for their solution. i was deeply concerned to receive the report which notes the numerous violations of human rights, particularly affecting women and children. as a woman, i cannot identify with the fact that more than 11 million sahelans are suffering from hunger, that more than 3 million children under the age of 17 are working in mali, that slavery persists in this region, that kidnapping and trafficking of children are commonplace. despite the diversity of cultures in this region, i am dissatisfied with the practices that are carried out on women and girls (forced marriages, sexual exploitation, female genital mutilation). i would like to call on all those concerned to seek ways of stopping and improving this situation through a common dialogue.
in writing. - i am very sorry that i could not support mr tannock's report. this report draws on a deep understanding of the situation in the sahel region and delves into the causes of long-standing problems affecting the people of the region. i am even more sorry that ideological demands for the liberalization of abortion under the guise of securing reproductive rights have been incorporated into the final text of the report. i am opposed in principle to the european union promoting policies on which there are conflicting views in the individual member states and which are outside the eu's sphere of competence. abortion is not a solution to any disease, is not a tool for family planning, does not help to increase political stability, and does not lead to economic well-being and prosperity. that is why i did not vote in favour of the report.
solidarity between people is the only way to truly sustainable development. this solidarity is manifested in many ways, often taking institutional form in the form of organised communities. these are primarily municipalities and civil society organisations. i believe that europe has know-how in this area which it can offer to developing countries. however, i would like to stress that the budget allocated to building and supporting civil society organisations should be used in a meaningful way to help people learn to improve their lives together. what we need are long-term projects with tangible results, not seminars and conferences. the european union should focus more on supporting the activities of christian organisations in developing countries.
quality education is the best tool in the fight against youth unemployment. the high percentage of young people out of work is a reason to reflect on some of the recommendations of the committee on employment and social affairs. the proposed initiatives to bring training closer to the needs of employers are a step in the right direction. it should be stressed, however, that education remains a competence of the member states. in this context, member states have an important role not only in monitoring and evaluating training programmes but also in introducing the necessary changes to ensure quality.
in writing. − currently, 73 million europeans, i.e. 25% of adults, have completed a low level of education. nearly 20% of people aged 15 cannot read and write well. the rate of early school leaving is still unacceptable. less than 9% of adults participate in lifelong learning. these are just some of the statistics i wanted to highlight in the context of the eu education system. i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the education review can be the way to achieve by 2020 that the share of practical learning in education is increased, that school funding is targeted, that investment returns are maximised, that technology, in particular the internet, is used more in schools, and that member states improve the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired outside the formal education and training system. i regret that despite the large number of educational institutions and accredited training programmes, very few communicate with employers and focus their training activities on the needs of the market. i therefore expect member states to provide more effective training, which will create better conditions for achieving higher levels of employability across the eu.
written − the fight against corruption and organised crime is one of the most important priorities for any potential candidate country wishing to join the european union. the independent judiciary, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and effective action against corruption play an important role in consolidating the rule of law and democracy. this is why it is important to support and monitor reforms in the field of justice and the fight against corruption funded by eu funds. since 2001, eu preaccession assistance to turkey in the field of judicial reform has amounted to eur 128 938 935 for 30 projects. so far, nine projects have been completed, 11 are in progress and 10 are awaiting launch. in the field of the fight against corruption, the eu's pre-accession assistance to turkey amounted to eur 6 160 000 for five projects. so far, one project has been closed, two are in progress, and two are waiting to be started. since 2005, eu preaccession assistance in the area of judicial reform to the western balkan countries has amounted to eur 240 064 387,48 for 124 projects. in the area of the fight against corruption, the eu's pre-accession assistance to the western balkan countries amounted to eur 55 160 227,76. so far, 18 projects have been completed, 17 are in progress and 10 are awaiting launch. it is hoped that the projects will have the expected impact on reforms.
in writing. − i supported the report submitted because as a doctor i know very well how dangerous infections are, especially after surgical procedures. at the same time, we have already discussed in this parliament the increasing resistance of micro-organisms that are dangerous to humans to antibiotics. i therefore agree with the rapporteur who calls for more rigorous application of the recommendations in force in the eu member states. not only hospital care, the quality of which is currently the subject of growing criticism in, for example, slovakia, but also out-of-hospital care needs to be improved. i consider that strengthening the status and rights of patients and rigorous monitoring of the quality of healthcare are key.
i appreciate the work of the rapporteur and the crim committee, especially the meetings with the various expert organisations. experience in the past shows that there is a great need to share good practices between member states and to act together against cross-border crime. the feeling of security of eu citizens is closely linked to crime prevention. we, the members of the european parliament, have to work in two directions. the renewal of the framework for crime prevention at eu level is as important as the preparation of an eu strategy against organised crime. the report also stresses that more effective action at eu level against organised crime, corruption and money laundering is urgent. we must put a stop to those organisations that cross national borders and commit economic and other crimes, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by globalisation. not only our national economies, but also the personal and financial security of eu citizens are exposed to the greatest possible threat from the activities of criminal organisations. i support proposals that call for more transparent administrative procedures and more responsible policymaking. it's important to create a cleaner banking system and a cleaner business environment, because that's what serves entrepreneurs in a fair and legal way. the only way to achieve results is through strengthened judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. in conclusion, the temporary location of the european police college (cepol) was recently agreed by the eu's interior ministers. i applaud your decision to host this in budapest.
i join my colleagues in speaking about the old and new era of e-justice. as regards further development, i believe that further emphasis should be placed on promoting e-justice and ensuring easy access. information and applications available electronically are also useful for legal practitioners and for union citizens who come into contact with the judiciary. the new action plan should be drawn up, examining the experience of the previous period and correcting the shortcomings, in which participation in e-justice programmes should remain voluntary. this will allow member states to decide which development they wish to participate in. developments should be made in accordance with the needs of the applicant. where e-justice can serve to facilitate the implementation and application of union law, better coordination between legislative work, funding instruments and e-justice projects is needed. the next action plan should also take into account the simplification of funding options and the support for further successful projects, including small projects and national developments.
it's a pleasure to see you back in the chair. officer, please. my fellow citizens! the principle of free movement of persons is one of the eu's fundamental pillars. as such, it would be a fundamental mistake to question it, just as no one would think of questioning the principle of free movement of goods or capital, even though there is a problem to be solved in this area. of the four principles, however, the free movement of persons is the most problematic. only 3% of eu citizens - as commissioner andor has mentioned - have this option. despite the fact that decree 492 is in effect, there are many obstacles to the exercise of this freedom. parliament is working hard on a directive on the practical application of the regulation. i hope we can accept it in the near future. welfare tourism is a reality, but the solution is not to build new borders. article 7 of the existing regulation 2004/38 provides member states with a sufficient basis for dealing with the situation.
madam president, i believe that the multilateral structures of the enp ought to be consolidated and developed more strategically. given the centrality of effective multilateralism in the union’s foreign policy, the commission and the eeas should consider the possibility of using the enp’s multilateral track as a framework for organising political relations in the wider europe. the commission and the eeas must explore opportunities for an institutional link between the enp and the neighbourhood policies of key regional players such as turkey, or eu strategic partners such as the usa.
as elected representatives of the union, we are obliged to influence the neighbourhood policy and to promote the values that are at the heart of european policy. the union must play a more active role in this. i therefore encourage greater involvement: political, social and financial. our parliament should be part of this policy and have an immediate positive influence on its overall direction. this is mainly to promote democratic development, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, but also to promote the interests of the union and its citizens. i am pleased that the report we are discussing today also addresses some specific issues of importance to slovakia, such as energy and energy security. these issues are relevant not only to us slovaks, but also from the union's point of view, as well as from the point of view of our partners in the neighbourhood.
in writing. the task of public administration is to create the legislative conditions that will enable each citizen to exercise his freedom to the fullest. the digital agenda is clearly an effort to broaden the scope of freedom of enterprise, but it also aims to broaden consumer choice in the provision of digital services and technologies. but i am embarrassed by the part of commission president barroso's speech where he talks about tackling unemployment, especially among young people. man needs work not only to provide for his material needs but also to preserve his dignity. but no public policy can predict the needs of the market. i would very much like to see a focus at european level on breaking down barriers in the labour market so that geographical distance, responsibilities for other family members or changing careers are not insurmountable obstacles. our aim should not be to subsidize traineeships and short-term jobs for young unemployed school leavers, but to create an environment in which these young people are not afraid to stand on their own feet or to find work where it is.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals with a wide range of legal uses. trade in them is legitimate, both in regional and global markets. however, some of them have the potential to be misused for the illicit manufacture of narcotic substances. the control of drug precursors is one of the key actions in the effective fight against drugs. despite the establishment of a regulatory framework at both international and eu level, a legal gap has emerged that needs to be filled. these are in particular preparations for human use containing ephedrine or pre-doephedrine when these medicinal products have been exported from or transited through the customs territory of the union, even though it was foreseeable that they would be misused for the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine in the country of their destination. for this reason too, the eu is expected to close the legislative gap.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemical compounds that are produced for legal purposes but can be misused to produce narcotic and psychotropic substances. the trade in drug precursors is not prohibited. these bars are used in many standard industrial processes. however, to prevent the misuse of drug precursors for illicit manufacture, a regulatory framework has been established at national level, to which the eu is a party. a vast network of manufacturers, distributors, intermediaries, importers, exporters or wholesalers of chemicals operating in legitimate trade must take anti-theft measures, control their customers, detect suspicious transactions and report them to the competent authorities. it is therefore precisely this partnership between industry and the authorities that is of vital importance for the effective functioning of the regulatory framework.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals commonly used in various industrial processes, such as the production of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics or cleaning products, but which can be misused to produce illicit drugs. among the less well-known are so-called bath salts. this type of drug is often found in large quantities in online shops and is virtually legal to sell. synthetic drugs are sold as products for other uses, such as cleaning agents. however, these substances have many times more dangerous effects than 'conventional' drugs made from natural substances. this type of drug has been popular for the last four years or so. the information available has repeatedly shown that these substances have unpredictable effects on their users, often associated with violent crime. over the past few years, the eu has been the target of international criticism for its allegedly too lax control measures. this criticism focused in particular on one substance, acetic acid aa. the quantities of aa seized within europe in 2008 would be approximately sufficient to cover the half-year demand for aa needed to produce heroin in afghanistan. it is therefore very important to ensure that drug precursors such as aa do not fall into the wrong hands.
in writing. − the e-justice action plan covered the period 2009 to 2013. it is now appropriate to decide on an action plan for the years 2014 to 2018. electronic justice can rightly be considered as a means of facilitating access to legal and judicial information for citizens and lawyers, as well as to judicial and administrative proceedings. the mutual recognition of judgments within the member states of the union is also one of the essential principles of a functioning eu legal system.
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur for a very good report. as his report acknowledges, the union’s external actions need to be understood and supported by eu citizens. the european parliament plays an important role in this process. a few issues i want to mention: in order to be a global player, the eu must keep up with the rest of the world, hence it must continue to develop and cultivate a modern, professional and competent external action service. congratulations to madam ashton on her achievements so far. i want to encourage her to continue active personal engagement in her future activities. the only way to achieve a strong and credible foreign security policy is with clear strategic goals; we need coherence and consistency. these must be the key principles of our external policy and must mirror the eu’s political and economic weight in the world. we can achieve this only by coordinated action among the member states. the other challenge for us lies just beyond our borders. our near neighbourhood and countries with the prospects of eu membership are the real test for our external action. developments in these countries directly affect our citizens and their interests. therefore, we need to invest more in these relations politically, economically and physically.
mr president, the eu could achieve so much on the global stage. consider the example of the so-called ‘strategic partnership’, a new concept introduced in 2010 to organise our bilateral relationships with the established and emerging powers. it is a very sensible idea. it has great potential to make our engagement with key players more coherent and more effective; however, so far the potential remains unfulfilled. what are the criteria for selecting our strategic partners? today we have ten strategic partners: the usa, canada, brazil, russia, china, india, japan, south korea, south africa and mexico. but the list seems arbitrary – why south korea and not australia? – and so on. does the designation as ‘strategic partner’ have any budgetary implications? in summary, we need more clarity on what the instrument is designed to achieve, and the european parliament should be fully involved in this debate.
mr president, one may disagree with greenpeace’s methods of campaigning and even understand why gazprom’s drilling in the arctic is a sensitive issue for moscow, but the actions of the russian authorities are unacceptable and must be denounced. legally speaking, the charge of piracy is clearly harsh and ridiculous. it is absurd to imagine that greenpeace activists intended to violently seize gazprom’s property. the eu should stand firmly behind the netherlands. it does not matter if the legal base changed from piracy to hooliganism, the hague is right to ask the international tribunal for the law of the sea to arbitrate the case. this is a matter for international law, especially if the incident took place in international waters. russia must fully participate in the tribunal’s proceedings. it is the only way of resolving the dispute. but we must make it clear to russia that, if they sentence the activists, it will have repercussions on eu-russia relations.
in writing. the human population is exposed to permanent exposure to ionising radiation, whether from natural or artificial sources of ionising radiation. even with small doses of radiation, which we are exposed to for a period of time, radiation can affect us because its effect is cumulative. i support the report because i believe that the proposal can further improve the conditions for protection against exposure to ionising radiation. i also expect that some of the irregularities in the existing legislation will be corrected. i am afraid that, despite further measures, radiation will continue to pose a very great danger to many workers and the public, which may manifest itself in various forms which i do not wish to discuss here (cancer, effects on offspring). the seriousness of the situation is shown by the statistics that show that in the eu countries between 750 and 2 200 radiological examinations per 1 000 inhabitants are carried out per year (an average of 1 306 examinations per 1 000 inhabitants per year). i expect member states to translate all the proposals and measures into their national programmes, thus creating the best possible conditions for ensuring the best possible protection of the population.
in the air. the opportunities offered by the digital single market are key to creating a more competitive and dynamic economy. we must ensure equal and unhindered access to high-speed broadband internet networks for all our citizens. by building our infrastructure, we can generate 16 billion euros in revenue globally and create 4.4 million new jobs by 2016. the challenges of globalisation and the use of new technologies must be addressed, as big data and knowledge are the driving forces of the union's future economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. the adoption of innovative technological solutions such as e-procurement can also encourage new, high-quality e-government services, thereby facilitating the seamless provision of information and services. as the global economy becomes increasingly internet-based, it is necessary to recognise that one of the sources of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is information and communication technologies. i would therefore call on the commission and the member states to commit themselves to the creation of a digital single market as a comprehensive political priority.
for the s&d group. thank you for your word. i would like to join my colleague the rapporteur in saying that i too was surprised when the commissioner said, in the first sentence, that he supported the strategy, but then went on to say that this strategy should be part of the danube strategy. perhaps we should talk about what the carpathians mean within europe. it is clear that the carpathian region is a source of drinking water and clean air for most european countries. they are home to one third of the continent's fauna and flora, and coordination between states in the framework of the carpathian region strategy on the environment, economic growth, employment, cross-border cooperation, tourism and other areas is a welcome initiative. the danube and baltic strategies mentioned earlier confirmed that the common interest of a group of states provides new impetus for the development of the whole of europe, not just a given region. the carpathian strategy will not be born out of the blue, as the countries belonging to this area of the carpathian euroregion have been cooperating for 20 years. it's flood protection, networking within industrial parks and logistics centres, developing small hydroelectric plants in the river basins of this region. we must not forget the cooperation of local authorities, ngos and cultural institutions. as a member of parliament from eastern slovakia, i see the potential of the carpathian strategy for regional development, in particular, in the implementation of international projects focusing mainly on the economy, culture and social assistance. i also see the importance of a common strategy for the carpathian region in the need to create a common financial mechanism for the support and development of the carpathian region, and this is where we need the commission's support. i believe the commission will reconsider its position and come out in support.
for the efd group. the carpathian region covers a large area in four european union countries, romania, hungary, slovakia, poland, as well as in the western part of ukraine. the carpathians are considered one of europe's most important natural areas. as mentioned here, they are a source of drinking water, clean air for millions of people. therefore, our strategy for the carpathian region should include a maximum effort to maintain a balance between the ecological protection of the natural environment and the economic activities carried out in this region. in this period, when we are about to significantly strengthen our economic and political cooperation with ukraine, the carpathian strategy can be one of the concrete projects that will help to overcome political barriers in this territory more quickly. cooperation between participating countries in implementing crossborder regional projects can provide coordinated responses to the various challenges that we face in programming sustainable economic growth in this part of europe. i therefore think that the union should be more active in shaping the policy of the carpathian region.
the carpathian macro-region is made up of eight member states. it is actually geographically beyond the borders of the union. however, from a regional perspective, the carpathians are a common denominator for up to 41 regions of the european union and seven regions outside the european union. from a geopolitical point of view, the carpathian region deserves special attention, commissioner, because it stretches along the eastern border of the european union and brings together diverse cultures and peoples. strengthening european identity and values is therefore also a political issue and is of paramount importance for the purpose of homogeneous integration throughout the european union. in my opinion, the priority should be to build a north-south transit corridor, to further strengthen transport, to build the missing infrastructure. this will facilitate the movement of people, goods and services, thus clearly increasing the competitiveness of the region. i was personally present at the september economic forum in krynica, poland, where a memorandum was also presented and adopted by representatives of eight countries from the region, and i therefore ask you, commissioner, to take note of this. and i therefore ask the commission to give its full support to this project of the carpathian macro-region, because its integration will contribute to strengthening economic, social cohesion and promoting european values on the eastern border of the european union.
in writing. − economic and sustainable growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment can be considered priorities for the 2014 financial year. the council introduced cuts in both commitment and payment appropriations in all headings, which is however contrary to the political agreement on the mff on the allocation of appropriations for the start of the deployment period. the european parliament has therefore set the total budget for 2014 at eur 142 625 million in commitment appropriations and eur 136 077 million in payment appropriations. it is important that appropriate efforts are made to use the budget efficiently and that all areas financed from it have a clear european added value.
in writing. − a recovery in economic growth in all eu regions requires an investment-oriented budget that supports growth, employment and competitiveness. differences between regions must continue to be systematically overcome in order to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion. the 2014 budget must take into account the budgetary expectations of the regions and also reflect the changes resulting from the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. the successful completion of the programmes also presupposes that the financing of the commitments entered into for the preceding period is ensured. in my vote on the 2014 budget, i supported the adequate allocation of the structural funds and the additional allocation to the youth employment initiative and the fund for european aid to the most deprived.
in writing. − the 2014 budget must in any event be strong enough to cover the european union's commitments. cutting investment in research and job creation, as well as in humanitarian aid, would be irresponsible and largely unjustifiable if europe is to move forward. the eu economy cannot be strengthened without adequate investment in research, small and medium-sized enterprises and support measures for young people. disagreements between the council and the european parliament on the level of investment must not serve as fertile ground for budgetary allocations and as a brake on job creation. our job is to act responsibly and not carry the deficit into next year. only then can we provide support for the 5.5 million young people struggling with unemployment in the eu member states. for these reasons, the eu budget for 2014 must be clearly geared towards promoting growth and jobs. if we are to move closer to the eu 2020 objectives, it is also essential to cover expenditure in areas such as science and research, infrastructure and climate change.
in writing. − the european commission will present a green paper in august last year: sea notes 2020 from seabed mapping to ocean forecasting as part of the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy. one of the main objectives is to create a digital seabed map of european seas with multi-level resolution by 2020. this will make available to a wide range of interested parties the vast data that are part of the marine knowledge problem. the eu will provide assistance through the common strategic framework for structural financing, backed by the european maritime and fisheries fund. however, efforts by the member states and the private sector are important and necessary if the objective of the policy in question is to be effectively achieved.
in writing. − one of the eu's priorities is to enforce its trade rights effectively. however, it does not currently have a common legislative framework to enforce trade rights under international trade agreements. the draft regulation is therefore currently proposing to establish such a common legislative framework in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. the timeframe for the adoption of the measure is of primary importance. prior to the lisbon treaty, the eu used a case-by-case approach to trade retaliation against a third country under the wto agreement on rules and procedures relating to the settlement of disputes and restoration of balance under the wto agreement on safeguards. even in view of the possible strengthening of the proposal in terms of scope, it is very important that the eu establishes this horizontal instrument as soon as possible.
in writing. − the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) ' outlined the possible tasks, objectives and focus of the cfp after 2013. on the basis of the discussion on this communication, the cfp should be reformed with effect from 1 january 2014. the scope of the european maritime and fisheries fund should also include support for the cfp in terms of the protection, management and exploitation of marine biological resources, freshwater biological resources and aquaculture. the aim is to ensure that fisheries and aquaculture activities contribute to long-term sustainable environmental conditions desirable for economic and social development.
in writing. − if you have the european maritime and fisheries fund aims to help implement the common fisheries policy. the fund is based on four pillars: green fisheries, green aquaculture, sustainable and inclusive territorial development and an integrated maritime policy. i consider it a priority to increase financial support for data collection and to tighten controls on the use of eu funds. the success of the future common fisheries policy (cfp) depends to a large extent on the extent to which the agreed measures are implemented. some member states have considerable difficulties in complying with data collection, controls and enforcement obligations. however, compliance with these obligations is a basic prerequisite for effective fisheries management at european level. member states are legally bound by the principles of the eu maritime strategy directive, but implementation has been slow in practice. in particular, member states need to significantly step up their efforts in collecting data for indicators of good environmental status and the impact of fisheries on the ecosystem. i therefore believe that it is necessary to increase the amount of money allocated to data collection, control and enforcement in the first place. at the same time, flexibility for member states to shift support/contributions to such control or enforceability should be encouraged.
in writing. − if you have the available evidence on climate change from daha raises serious concerns about the impact of existing mitigation commitments of stakeholders in terms of global annual greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and aggregated total emissions scenarios that could represent a chance to keep the global annual average temperature increase to below 2 degrees. in fact, abrupt climate change is a binding threat to humanity, biodiversity and the planet, and for this reason too it is necessary to address this issue at international level with the participation of all stakeholders.
in writing. - i abstained on this resolution. on the one hand, i believe that europe needs to diversify its energy production in order to gradually achieve self-sufficiency. we know that a high dependence on one of our political partners limits our ability to formulate a sovereign foreign policy. but i cannot agree that despite serious doubts about whether human activities and co2 emissions are really the source of global climate change, the eu is blindly and stubbornly proposing new and new commitments. we have seen the failure of the ets market which this parliament has resuscitated. we turn a blind eye to the billions that companies and consumers pay to subsidize inefficient electricity generation. the communists used to say they could command the wind and the rain. the eu is now convincing people of the same thing.
in writing. − organized crime is no longer a phenomenon limited to a historical and territorial dimension. today, there are some 3 600 international criminal groups operating in the eu alone. organised crime is characterised by intimidation, corruption, money laundering or tax fraud and tax evasion. in order to prevent such unfair practices, efforts to counter them should be made at global level. effective judicial cooperation at european and international level is desirable. in this context, it is necessary that each member state has adequate legislation.
in writing. - organized crime knows no borders. to this end, a special committee was set up in the european parliament to study the activities of organised crime in the european union and to propose a legal framework to enable the member states to combat it more effectively. this report discusses a number of tools to combat organised crime. however, i am not sure that the proposal for a pan-european corporate income tax really falls within the scope of this report. the level of income tax in the member states reflects the extent and quality of public services. if we unify the tax rate without guaranteeing the same quality and scope of these services, we will put the new member states at a disadvantage in favour of the old ones. i strongly disagree.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy (enp) has helped to change the relationship between the eu and its neighbours. since 2004, when the esp began to take place, contacts between the two sides have intensified. trade has doubled, and eu aid to neighbouring countries has increased. however, further progress is needed to deepen bilateral security and stability. the treaty of lisbon also commits to developing mutual relations.
in writing. − the commission presented the annual growth survey (ags) as early as november 2012. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the measures in force. in the last 12 months, the number of unemployed has increased by another two million, reaching a level of 25 million. the segmentation of the labour market continued to increase and long-term unemployment reached alarming levels. in many member states, average household incomes are falling and indicators point to deeper forms of poverty and social exclusion. in order to improve the current critical situation, member states simply have to make, and above all actually implement, the necessary commitments, in the framework of their national reform programmes.
in writing. − according to the international organisation for migration, at least 20 000 people have died at sea since 1993. this sad news underscores the need to make every effort to save the lives of people in danger in international waters. the tragic event that took place in early october on the italian island of lampedusa should be a real milestone for the eu. in order to prevent similar tragedies, it is justified to adopt a common european approach aiming at taking steps to prevent such events from happening again. this can also be helped by deepening cooperation with third countries and by strengthening cross-border cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union.
in writing. − i supported the joint resolution in the hope that the commission would come forward very soon with a comprehensive proposal for solutions to deal with the influx of refugees into eu countries, such as the cases in recent weeks where people have lost their lives in the hope of a better and safer future for themselves and their children. council directive 202/90/ec should have been revised long ago so that people providing humanitarian assistance to migrants at sea in emergency situations could not be sanctioned for facilitating unauthorised entry, transit and residence in any country. refugees who choose to leave their homeland, where they were born, and have families of their own are often forced to make such a grave decision out of fear for their lives. they are therefore desperate to find refuge in an economically strong and secure europe. we therefore need to review asylum policies in all member states and jointly build capacity to enable the temporary resettlement of refugees in emergency situations. on the other hand, we must be firm against criminal groups involved in human trafficking and smuggling.
in writing. − the eu-us agreement on the processing and transmission of data contained in financial messages from the eu to the us for the purposes of the terrorist finance tracking program entered into force on 1 august 2010. press reports indicate that the us national security agency (nsa) has direct access to the information systems of many private companies and has obtained direct access to data contained in financial reports. one of the union's main objectives is to promote individual freedom. however, in order to respect the rights and freedoms of citizens of the union's member states, the processing of personal data must also comply with eu and member state rules.
in writing. − the importance of the draft amending budget presented is to avoid a cash shortage which could lead to a failure to meet the commitments in question in 2013. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the capital injections in question. the reduction in the forecast of traditional own resources by approximately eur 3 955 million and in the vat-based own resources by eur 384 million is offset by fines totalling eur 1 229 million. although this will place a considerable burden on national budgets, the revenue side change should not be at the expense of financing the full amount of eligible items already defined by the commission in the draft subsequent amending budgets.
in writing. − the eu's goal is to have a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020, with a set of policies and measures to enable a smooth transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient economy. since 1973, the subsequent environmental action programmes (eaps) have provided the framework for union action on environmental issues. so far, the last, sixth eap, has recognised that the programme has been environmentally beneficial and has created an overarching framework for the strategic direction of environmental policy. however, despite these successes, unsustainable trends persist in all four priority areas identified in the 6th eap. further action is needed to address these issues in order to ensure the long-term prosperity of the union. it is important to set the union's priority objectives for 2020 in the light of a long-term vision, with the new programme building on europe 2020 initiatives as a priority.
in writing. − exposure to ionising radiation has resulted in harm to health. however, small doses may have a delayed effect. it is assumed that there is no dose limit for this effect: any exposure, however small, can cause cancer in later life. the euratom treaty contains an important body of legislation dealing with various radiation protection issues. these are the so-called basic safety standards. however, their development overlaps over a relatively long period, there are several inconsistencies between the individual acts and references are obsolete due to updated legislation. these gaps need to be aligned with the commission's policy of simplifying european legislation. this is, however, primarily to ensure better protection of the general public.
in writing. − the annual report addresses the main issues of the eu's cfsp, both institutionally and politically. it stresses in particular the central role of the promotion of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in the eu in the context of foreign policy. it highlights the challenges facing the eu in the cfsp in relations with countries such as russia (especially in relation to eastern partnership issues) and china. a new element in this year's report is a reference to the changes in iran after the election of the president. the report calls for consideration of possible incentives, taking into account whether and when iran will meet its commitments to the international community with regard to its nuclear programme.
in writing. −the latest proposals to amend the union's framework for electronic communications were submitted by the commission back in november 2007. the revised framework was adopted by the european parliament and the council two years later, in november 2009. it was necessary to transpose this framework into national law at the latest 18 months after its adoption. however, to date very few member states have transposed these rules in time and the last member states notified full transposition only in january 2013. although the commission is obliged to review this framework on a regular basis and has recently committed to carrying out a review of two components of the framework, it has not yet announced that it intends to carry out a full review in the foreseeable future. it can be said that the internal market in electronic communications is not yet complete. however, it is desirable and necessary that it should be an instrument that could create the necessary conditions to promote and link investment and competition, and thus ultimately have a positive impact on the lives of citizens. this is where all the efforts of stakeholders should be directed.
for the s&d group i am very pleased that we are debating the erasmus+ programme today. i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues in the european parliament who have helped us to bring this text to a final, beautiful text that we all like. first of all, it would certainly be the rapporteur, mrs doris pack, who has been really tireless in fighting for better conditions for students, for young people and for everyone in education as a whole. i would also like to thank the cabinet of commissioner vassiliou and especially mr jordi curell, who was a very good colleague in the trialogue during the negotiation of this programme. i also thank the irish presidency, which is unfortunately not here today, and especially mrs julia anderson, who worked with the european parliament in the trilogue and really helped us to draw up a text which i think is acceptable to all today. i believe that this text fulfils the attributes that we as the european parliament have set ourselves from the beginning, and especially our committee. it has a clear structure, it is user-friendly, which was certainly helped by the very fact that the key names of the former programmes such as erasmus, leonardo da vinci, grundtvig or comenius were retained. the new multiannual programme in the field of education and training for youth and sport brings together all current european initiatives on youth, student mobility, lifelong learning programmes and youth policy. it also extends the scope of cooperation in innovation and the exchange of good practice, and also supports policy reforms. the programme offers the possibility for more than four million people to benefit from grant opportunities in the field of education and training over the next seven years. for the sake of comparison, i would like to say, as mrs skrzydlewska has, that in the last 25 years of erasmus' existence, 3 million students have had the opportunity to take advantage of this mobility, and we plan to have 2 million students in the european union do so in the next seven years. tomorrow's vote will expand the possibilities of international mobility not only for millions of students and young people, but also for education workers themselves. it should be noted that one of the greatest achievements for me as shadow rapporteur was the creation of a unique chapter for youth, which was not in the commission's original proposal, with a separate budget that will create space for the expansion of international youth mobility, a wider support for the work of youth organisations and various activities in areas such as projects aimed at promoting citizenship, volunteering, but also much needed non-formal education. i am pleased that we have succeeded in strengthening the social sector by increasing access to mobility for young people from disadvantaged backgrounds or from lower income families. despite the large amount of misleading information that has been disseminated about the introduction of the student guarantee facility student loans pilot, it should be noted that it is an additional instrument for educational mobility in the second cycle of higher education and is not a substitute for grants. i would, of course, like to ask you all to vote tomorrow in favour of this programme, which is really the result of cooperation between the three institutions and has reached a very large consensus in our committee on education, which is the committee responsible.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs doris pack for the great work she has done on the reform of the erasmus programme. i hope that the budget proposed will be sufficient and that a crisis situation such as the one we recently had to deal with in this parliament will not arise. i consider the introduction of a financial instrument to provide loans for study in another member state to be a breakthrough. because if you decide to invest in your education, you'll choose a school based on quality and job application. the future of europe depends to a large extent on the mobility of young people. erasmus enables a whole generation of young people to get to know europe, to relate to it and to see what unites europe. this dimension makes erasmus one of the key policies of the union.
for the efd group the proposed commission regulation responds to the problems of implementing the trans-european transport network, which is one of the union's key investment projects. the commission has also been working on a number of other projects, including the development of a new european transport network. the commission's proposal to divide the transport network into two tiers, the basic network, to be completed by 2030, and the comprehensive network, to be completed by 2050, can be understood as an effort to introduce certain priorities into the union's transport system, on the basis of which it would be possible to prioritise the construction of certain parts of the network over others. however, i also consider it important to involve local and regional authorities in the preparation of such projects. as an example, i could mention the priority project no 17 of the paris-strasbourg-vienna-bratislava railway line, which is to meet at the bratislava node with corridor no 4 berlin-prague-bratislava-budapest-thessaloniki and the northern branch of corridor no 5 venice-thirst-ljubljana-budapest-bratislava-zilina, etc., without meaningfully linking at this node. both local and regional authorities have repeatedly called for a more rational and pragmatic technical solution for this railway junction with a natural north-south connection in the city. but our brussels representatives have so far stubbornly ignored the regional authorities' logical arguments, and i think that is not good.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as a shadow rapporteur speaking on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to express our positive stance on the revision of the gpa. it increases the clarity and transparency of the text, brings it closer to the eu procurement directives, and significantly extends its coverage by securing the eu roughly eur 30 billion of additional market-access opportunities. gpa+ will represent a significant step ahead in reinforcing the openness of public procurement. this will be achieved, inter alia, through a free-of-charge centralised electronic database on procurement notices, clearer rules on the selection of suppliers and electronic procurement procedures. enabling transitional measures for developing countries, the gpa+ could also propel other partners to join. finally, the revised gpa could create new leverage in the ongoing trade negotiations being conducted by the eu and lead to a successful conclusion of 12-year long negotiations. the conclusion of the ratification process in the eu is also an important political signal in view of the wto ministerial conference being held in indonesia in the first week of december.
in september, the european commission decided not to continue the eu citizens' initiative known as the minority safepack. the initiative, which proposes measures to protect indigenous minorities, was supported by organisations from 14 european countries. one essential element is the further development within the eu framework of the right of regional and cultural self-determination of minorities. many, including hungarians from romania and slovakia, hoped that europe would finally lend a helping hand to indigenous minorities. the union should be more firm in its defence of its own values, which it prefers to express in relation to third countries. cultural or territorial forms of self-government are diverse, even within the eu, and in many places they are lacking. recently, the municipality of tesedíkovo in slovakia held a referendum in favor of restoring the historical name pered. the slovak government, however, arrogantly rejected the natural request of the minority community. as we can see, there are astonishing differences between the policies of the member states on minorities. that is why the single package for the protection of minorities is so necessary.
the multiannual financial framework is intended to provide a vision of the future of europe, and therefore the individual budget chapters must also reflect the current social and economic challenges and the needs of citizens. i repeat that, especially in times of crisis, the budget must remain pro-growth, stimulating and justified in order to overcome economic difficulties promptly and to increase employment and the well-being of the people of the european union. i therefore regret that regional policy has suffered many cuts, which not only jeopardise the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy but also the expression of european solidarity towards the poorer regions, where disparities still need to be bridged. in my vote on the individual points of the proposal, i therefore supported the measure to increase strategic investment for growth and competitiveness and, above all, a strong cohesion policy.
in writing − when we talk about the eu's multiannual financial framework, we are talking about translating our political priorities for the period 2014-2020 into financial terms. we set maximum annual ceilings for total expenditure and we determine the main chapters of this expenditure. the multiannual financial framework sets budgetary discipline and ensures that expenditure is raised systematically and in line with our policy objectives. it provides greater certainty to eu funding recipients such as regions, smes, different organisations or civil society. therefore, its correct determination is very important. the eu budget is a key tool to overcome the current crisis. it is an expression of solidarity within the european union.
in writing − if you have the implementation of the new budgetary provisions introduced by the lisbon treaty was far from satisfactory. the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management is of particular importance in the wake of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. a political agreement has already been reached in this regard. this agreement should improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure, the cooperation between the institutions having budgetary powers and the establishment of financial discipline.
in writing, − draft amending budget no 7/2013 provides for an increase in commitment appropriations of eur 150 million. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the construction, maintenance, repair and overhaul of buildings, including the replacement of parts and equipment needed for the construction of buildings. these are mainly unemployment, youth unemployment, social exclusion and poverty. these specific questions have emerged from the final negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european budget is an expression of solidarity within the european union. its correct identification is very important, as it is one of the main tools for overcoming the current crisis.
in writing − draft amending budget no 8/2013 (nor2a) provides for an increase in payment appropriations of eur 3,9 billion in the relevant headings of the multiannual financial framework. this increase is intended to cover payments not repaid at the end of 2013. the additional appropriations for payments in the budgetary field will reduce the level of commitments that have not been reimbursed. they will also reduce the risk of a clearly disproportionate carry-over of the volume of unpaid bills to 2014. it is essential to take all necessary measures to ensure that the union's 2013 commitments are properly implemented.
written − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide protection for workers made redundant as a result of changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. the resources of the fund should also help them in their integration process into the labour market. the mobilisation of this fund was set by political agreement at up to eur 500 million (within the annual ceiling). spain submitted its request in this respect as early as may 2013, due to the mass redundancies in 140 enterprises. this application shall meet all the necessary requirements and also the requirements for the granting of financial contributions.
in writing − a government procurement agreement is an international agreement of a legally binding nature. it deals with access to government procurement markets and some members of the world trade organisation are also co-signatories. it currently has 15 contracting parties, one of which is the european union. the contracting parties agreed to revise the text laying down the rules as early as 2006. under the treaty of lisbon, ratification must be agreed by the european parliament and the council. however, this does not allow the european parliament to make certain changes to the text. it can only express its consent to the agreement as such. it is therefore of the utmost importance to carefully weigh the benefits of the agreement against its possible negative consequences.
in writing − if you have education and training are also among the main elements identified by the europe 2020 strategy. increased european union support in these areas is therefore absolutely necessary. this will significantly improve skills and at least partly address the abnormally high rate of youth unemployment in the member states of the european union. youth unemployment is one of the most complex and serious problems facing the union today. erasmus for all addresses education, training, youth and sport at a pan-european level, supporting all areas of education, both higher and vocational education and adult education, i.e. lifelong learning. targeted investment in this programme is therefore more than necessary.
in writing − i am very pleased that we have adopted today the new erasmus for all programme, which will enable thousands of students and teachers to further broaden their horizons and deepen their european identity by studying in another member state. i am convinced that enhancing transnational mobility of young people in the field of education will also help to tackle the persistent problem of youth unemployment, by providing them with new experiences and skills to apply in different member states. among the many very positive measures, i would like to highlight two, namely the opening up of volunteering opportunities and the extension of the programme to the sports field. as people who unselfishly help others and promote the public welfare out of love for their fellowman, volunteers deserve special attention and appreciation from lawmakers in the form of certain benefits. sport has a positive effect not only on the body and mind of the individual who practises it, but also on social inclusion and public health. the olympic ideal of sport itself contributes to the promotion of peaceful coexistence between communities and nations. sport therefore clearly belongs to the field of education and its formal teaching will be enhanced by the possibilities of european mobility.
the creative europe framework programme brings together the existing culture, media and media mundus programmes, which are now in the process of being merged. this is a new financial instrument aimed at improving access to finance for smes and organisations in the field of culture and creative activities. this support is crucial for the future process of european integration in diversity. the cultural and creative sectors currently account for 2.6% of european gdp and provide more than 5 million jobs. it is of the utmost importance to protect europe's tangible and intangible heritage, as well as to take into account the cultural dimension of the european union as a whole. pluralism and democracy, peaceful coexistence, the union's social model, as well as intercultural dialogue and openness towards third countries, need to be promoted. the cultural dimension must be taken into account in all the policies of the european union.
in writing − i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the new framework programme for the cultural and creative sectors can not only create easier access and space for the pursuit of this activity, but can also play an important role in meeting social policy objectives in a time of economic and financial crisis. i am convinced that the cultural sector is of fundamental importance for the social development of the eu as a whole, especially with regard to the protection of cultural heritage and the promotion of artistic innovation. local and regional authorities in particular play a key role in the management of cultural and linguistic heritage. i therefore expect them to be much more effective in their development programmes and objectives, especially in informing micro, small and medium-sized enterprises about the ways and means of promoting local and regional cultural activities. local and regional authorities will have to play a greater role in the transnational movement of culture, irrespective of geographical location and the frequent problem of multilingualism, and will do their utmost to ensure that the creative europe programme has the widest possible response among all citizens in the regions of the union.
when i was reading the documents for today's meeting, i came across a minority view of my colleagues from the united left. pointing to similar features of communist, fascist and nazi dictatorships is, in their view, a historical lie and also a disgrace to the memory of communists and other democrats. i would like to remind these colleagues that communist dictatorships are responsible for the deaths of millions of innocent people all over the world - from russia to europe to asia. my father, along with many others, was imprisoned for many years by these "communist democrats" simply because they believed in god. this week in slovakia we commemorated the 24th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain. we remembered the hundreds of executions, the thousands of tortures and the hundreds of thousands of prisoners, and that in a small country like czechoslovakia. this is the historical truth, and if anyone says otherwise, they're lying.
written − the europe for citizens 2014-2020 programme aims to increase the capacity of citizens' participation at the european union level. it is the only programme that addresses this objective at pan-european level. it is the continuation of the europe for citizens 2007-2013 programme. it is essential to continue the programme as its existence has shown the need to increase the understanding of citizens of the european union on its origins, history and functioning, and thus to raise the awareness of the population about the european union as a whole. this is important in view of our efforts to bring the european union closer to its citizens and to motivate union citizens to democratic and civic participation at union level.
written − the europe for citizens programme is one of the most visible programmes assessed by the european parliament's committee on culture and education, despite its relatively low budget (eur 229 million). the objective of the programme is to strengthen memory and to expand the capacity of civic participation at union level and it remains the only programme that focuses exclusively on the promotion of these objectives at eu level. in the previous period, the programme under the then treaty establishing the european community had a dual legal basis in order to fulfil its main objectives, which include civic participation, cultural diversity and heritage, and was adopted under the current legislative procedure. through this programme, citizens have the opportunity to participate in international exchanges and mutual cooperation, thus contributing to the development of a sense of belonging to common european values and promoting european integration. in today's eurosceptic world, where the essence and meaning of common integration is often in doubt, i consider an agenda such as europe for citizens to be more important than ever.
in writing − if you have according to the results of the european parliament's 2012 eurobarometer survey, more than half of europeans see freedom of movement and peace between member states as the most positive consequences of membership of the union. the number of eu citizens who feel a sense of belonging to the eu has slightly increased compared to the previous period, according to this survey, and moreover, a large majority of respondents felt that membership of the union is a good thing and considered it the most appropriate entity for the period up to 2025. i am convinced that the europe for citizens programme (2014-2020) can be a worthy successor to the current programme, but at the same time it can also become a good basis for the fulfilment of the eu priorities, which in my view include the modernisation of the institutions, the strengthening of unity, the consolidation of cooperation, the strengthening of the concept of eu citizenship, but also the increase of democracy in europe. as european citizens are still not fully aware of the role of the union and, in particular, of the results achieved so far in achieving its objectives, i expect the commission to look for further ways to increase citizens' awareness and involvement in eu action and, in particular, to link the europe for citizens programme with other union programmes.
a few days ago, i read a report about the tensions in trade relations between ukraine and gazprom. at this point, there may be no threat of russian gas supply being cut off to europe, but we all remember the winters of 2006 and 2009. slovakia and some other member states are most at risk from a lack of diversification of natural gas supply. i therefore welcome the fact that the proposal for a regulation that has been tabled takes this risk into account and that the completion of gas infrastructure in central and eastern europe, together with the southern gas corridor, is one of the priorities for the coming years. only then can we free ourselves from being held hostage in disputes that do not directly concern us and that we can hardly influence.
in writing − the connecting europe facility aims to focus resources on european projects with added value in the areas of transport, energy, telecommunications infrastructure, and thus to create integrated european networks. this is to ensure the same performance and high level of the infrastructures concerned throughout the european union. the instrument simplifies and centralises the allocation of funds in this area. its objective is to allocate resources between direct aid and the new financial instruments in a reasonable way and to better integrate the countries supported under cohesion policy by applying the cohesion fund rules in the field of transport to part of the cef funds. this should improve the competitiveness of the union's transport, energy and telecommunications sectors and the return to sustainable, inclusive and balanced growth.
in writing − increasing the eu's competitiveness and achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is inextricably linked to building modern infrastructure in all regions of the union. the new links will increase and accelerate the mobility of people, goods, services and innovation in an internal market that needs to be revived. in this context, i would like to stress the need to implement crossborder transport projects with high added value, such as the construction of the missing transport corridor in the carpathian region, which would stretch from north to south, from the baltic sea to the aegean and black seas. i fully agree with the argument that the union should be more ambitious on major european infrastructure projects. the complexity and scale of these projects are such that the existing legal and budgetary rules, as well as the budget allocated so far, should be adapted to the needs of their implementation.
in writing − although the european market for goods and services is highly integrated, the economic and financial crisis has triggered some critical examination of the functioning of markets and brought about a renewed interest in the need for investment in infrastructure. although infrastructure spending in europe has been on a downward trend over the last decade, i think there is a good opportunity for reinvestment in cross-border infrastructure. i voted in favour of this report because i consider the interconnected transport, energy and digital networks of the european single market to be the cornerstone of european integration and sustainable growth. i am convinced that the connecting europe facility can become a very important element at all policy levels, supporting the implementation of projects aimed at developing and building new or upgrading existing infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications. i expect this instrument to be an asset for the eu as a whole and to enable the union to achieve the objectives it has set itself in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing − transport is one of the essential elements of a successful economy. the trans-european transport network is one of the most important projects of the european union. its importance is considerable, particularly with regard to the common internal market, the mobility of the union's population, cohesion, job creation and economic growth. however, the trans-european transport network in its current form has many shortcomings that negatively affect the lives of european citizens, in particular the free movement of goods and persons. the problem is the significant delay in the implementation of many projects, the negative impact of the current crisis on funding, lack of coordination and low awareness. this proposal is of particular importance as intelligent infrastructure is a prerequisite for a quality transport system. in addition, infrastructure investments have a long-term return.
written − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the key infrastructure projects of the european union. it is an essential part of the common market, indispensable for the mobility of eu citizens, for economic, social and territorial cohesion, for economic growth and for job creation. however, the implementation of this network is currently facing a number of problems, including in particular funding difficulties during the economic crisis and significant delays in the implementation of many projects. europe needs to complete the missing links and remove the obstacles in the common transport infrastructure, as well as to ensure the future and sustainability of transport. the newly approved eu infrastructure policy aims to create a genuine network and no longer focus on isolated projects. for projects of common interest, deadlines have been set for their implementation in order to ensure priority implementation by the member states. better analysis of socio-economic costs and benefits, including environmental impact assessment, and a clear definition of european added value will contribute to a stronger focus on ten-t infrastructure priorities. therefore, maximising added value and making the most progress possible with limited financial resources must be one of the key priorities of the ten-t network.
written − trans-european transport networks are an important investment in the future, because they connect europe and create conditions for economic and business development. however, it is important that their construction takes account of the environment of the inhabitants of the member states. this means, in particular, that the quality of life of the people living nearby must be taken into account when planning new transport infrastructure. i am very pleased that the report presented underlines the importance of environmental impact assessment and i would be very pleased if the co-financing of specific projects from european sources guaranteed a high standard of environmental and landscape protection in each member state.
in writing − if you have the aim of this proposal from the european commission is to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics. the aim is to adapt them to the new institutional context. in the context of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011, the commission undertook to review legislative acts which refer to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny in the light of the criteria laid down in the treaty. the aim is to remove all provisions referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny from legislative acts by the end of the seventh parliamentary term of the european parliament. the second part of the commission's proposal deals with the simplification of the european statistical system. the european statistical system is defined as a partnership between the european statistical authority, the commission, and the national statistical institutes and other national authorities responsible in each member state for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics.
in writing − although i consider the transport infrastructure within the eu to be fairly well developed, i think that we still have many problems and obstacles in this area that need to be addressed and appropriate measures taken to remove them. we still lack connections in crossborder areas, we still register too much infrastructure fragmentation and differences in operational regulations on infrastructure quality and availability between member states. i supported the report because i think it is a good basis for creating a strong european transport network linking all 28 member states. i am also in favour of this report because it creates sufficient scope for the necessary changes in transport systems, which are related to harmonisation, interconnection and integration into the wider european context, with the aim of building a complete integrated trans-european transport network. i am very pleased and i consider it very important that the connecting europe facility also provides significant financial support at eu level for the development of the transport network, which is the basis for an efficient economy for the whole of europe.
in writing the aim of amending articles 25 and 26 of the unece convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes, also known as the helsinki convention, is to establish a framework for bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the prevention and control of pollution of transboundary watercourses. equally important is the rational use of water resources in the unece member countries. the member states of the european union are also co-signatories to this convention. the parties to the helsinki convention have expressed the need to allow countries outside the unece region to become parties for the purpose of cooperation. the amendment was formally accepted by 2/3 of the parties back in 2012. however, the european union has not yet formally accepted the entry into force of these amendments.
in writing − investments in research and development of technologies with energy production potential and environmental considerations, including the development of fusion energy, are more than necessary. nuclear fusion is a purely natural process. this process releases a large amount of energy without the unwanted production of greenhouse gases. there is a shortage of nuclear technology skills in europe today. this problem is addressed by research and development in this area. but the development of this kind of energy must be controlled. the iter project is a large-scale global project, a key element of energy research and of particular importance to the european strategic energy technology plan.
in writing − the regulation is part of the horizon 2020 package, which aims to establish a framework programme for research and innovation for the period 2014-2020. research and innovation policy is of particular importance for increasing the competitiveness of the european union. it also promotes job creation and, overall, the recovery of the european economy. this part of horizon 2020 focuses on nuclear energy and it is necessary to note that in this context, there is a particular need to give due consideration to many ethical issues related to nuclear safety, such as nuclear waste. we must also bear in mind that any research activity is subject to generally accepted ethical principles and that we must therefore be extremely rigorous and cautious in this area. research funded by union funds shall focus on the use of nuclear science for civilian purposes only.
in writing − bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia are gradually implementing their obligations under the treaty of accession and are phasing out designated nuclear power plants. however, the dismantling process to disposal is time-consuming and costly due to the complexity and the strictness of safety standards. the completion of the dredging works requires significant additional resources that could not be reliably estimated initially and that are disproportionately burdened on the member states concerned. i therefore consider it necessary, in the interests of security but also of solidarity, to allocate additional funds to help the three member states with the decommissioning of bohunice v1, units 1 and 2, ignalina unit 1 and kozloduy units 1-4. for the reasons given, i am voting in favour of the report by my colleague gilles chichester on the aid programmes for the decommissioning of nuclear installations.
in writing, the commission has submitted a proposal for a pan-european nuclear safety cooperation instrument for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. this instrument builds on an existing framework which has been gradually evolving since the last decade of the last century. the european union must respond to the global challenges of today. the need for international and coordinated action in this area is clear. it is important that the union has sufficient resources to respond to the challenges of nuclear safety and radiation protection and to be able to effectively promote a high level of protection in this area, including in third countries. in order to achieve these objectives and to be effective, this instrument must first be transparent, flexible and simple. this is particularly important in the light of the current, not very favourable, state of the european union's economy.
in writing, the slovak republic, like lithuania and bulgaria, has committed to shut down and decommission its nuclear reactors. the european union has concluded that they are too outdated and potentially dangerous, and that the necessary modernisation would be extremely inefficient in terms of cost. however, this requirement by the union represents a significant environmental, economic, social and, of course, financial burden, and the eu has therefore committed to providing financial assistance to these countries by the end of 2013. the total amount of european union aid to slovakia, lithuania and bulgaria until the end of 2013 is estimated at eur 2 847,8 million (eur 1 367 million for lithuania, eur 613 million for slovakia and eur 867,8 million for bulgaria). however, in 2011, the estimates of the resources needed to decommission the reactors were updated to eur 5 300 million, which is eur 2 500 million short of the funds currently available at national and programme level. this lack of funding seriously jeopardises the successful completion of the decommissioning process of old nuclear installations. the draft report in its current form is a one-sided presentation of negative information. the findings presented cast a negative light on the whole dumping process, also indicating a potential risk of endangering eu citizens, which is not based on the truth.
in writing − some member states have operated old nuclear reactors which the international community has concluded are too outdated and cannot be efficiently upgraded to meet the required minimum safety standards. slovakia is one of these countries. in the context of the negotiations for accession to the european union, slovakia, lithuania and bulgaria have committed themselves to closing and subsequently decommissioning these nuclear reactors. this early closure represents an extraordinary financial burden for the member states, which was not proportionate to the economic strength of the countries concerned. the european union therefore committed to continue providing additional financial assistance for decommissioning reactors. the report states that the act and the treaty do not provide a specific legal basis for bulgaria and slovakia for further support after 2009/2006, as was the case for lithuania. the treaty of accession and article 30 of the act of accession therefore do not constitute an appropriate legal basis for the introduction of further funding after 2013. i therefore support the chichester report, which calls, inter alia, for the co-financing provided for in the pre-accession aid and the aid granted in the period 2007-2013 to continue for all three member states. it shall also encourage possible co-financing from other sources as appropriate.
today we have sent good news to the citizens of europe by adopting the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. the other good news will be if we decide tomorrow how the regulations for the drawdown of the individual funds will be set up. the negotiations were not easy, but many good compromises were reached, which simplify processes and help to bridge regional differences, eradicate poverty and create jobs. as shadow rapporteur for the report on the european grouping of territorial cooperation, i would like to say that the revision of the regulation has achieved its original objective of simplification, legal certainty and flexibility, and the elimination of unnecessary red tape. the european grouping of territorial cooperation is open to all actors and the amendments will facilitate and stimulate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy supply, health, education, training, which will directly contribute to the creation of new jobs.
yesterday we discussed the new conditions for building transeuropean networks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: and i have some doubts about the use of the cohesion fund to implement transeuropean networks. i believe that cohesion funds are designed to eliminate regional disparities and that using these funds to build energy networks of higher importance seems to me to be contrary to the principle of cohesion. the countries that use these funds to re-finance trans-european networks are depriving themselves of the possibility of financing small projects in their regions, and i think this is to the detriment of cohesion policy.
in writing. the erdf regulation for the period 2014-2020 introduces a new mechanism by strengthening thematic concentration. it establishes mandatory investment quotas under predefined thematic objectives, depending on the classification of the region. the compromise package on thematic grouping also includes several provisions proposed by the ep to increase flexibility. the european commission has proposed that the erdf should support regional and local development by co-financing investments between 2014 and 2020 in the following areas: r & d and innovation, climate change and the environment; business support for smes; services of general economic interest; telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure; health, education and social infrastructure; and sustainable urban development. i support the parliament's proposal to broaden the objectives to include small-scale infrastructure related to cultural and sustainable tourism. support for productive investments in large enterprises in the fields of research and innovation, the transition to a low-carbon economy and ict, smes should be involved as a cooperative partner. i regret that the overall framework of cohesion policy is being reduced and that the erdf budget is being reduced as a result. therefore, in the current tight budgetary framework, i consider it important to establish thematic concentration and priority investment in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. promoting gender equality and prohibiting discrimination of any kind must be the absolute priorities of our policies. however, the eu still has a high gender imbalance in leadership. but the principle of equality is a fundamental principle of the eu! women are discriminated against in this regard all the time. gender equality should be an absolute matter of course at all levels and in all areas of economic life. however, we are making very slow progress in representing women in senior management. the rate of improvement is only anything from 5 to 25 percent. and this small progress is very uneven. we should finally get rid of prejudice and gender stereotypes. the issue of gender balance needs to be addressed. i support this proposal because it is based on the principles of equality, transparency and a fair meritocracy. he's socially just. moreover, it does not impose any disproportionate administrative burden. women have an irreplaceable role to play in the labour market. by accepting more women into management positions, companies will gain a new perspective on the world of business, new skills, abilities, new ideas and a new way of working. this can only mean a great deal to them.
the creation of a single european parliament office is a good example of how the administrative manners of the european bureaucracy, based on the nonsense embedded in the union's founding documents, can eliminate any common sense in dealing with simple and logical matters. the travelling - i won't say travelling circus, if you don't want to - i'll say travelling parliament, if you think it's more serious, transporting every month from brussels to strasbourg and back about five thousand people and tons of work materials costs our citizens, who pay for it with their taxes, about eur 200 million a year. for almost thirty years, many of us have been pointing out the absurdity of this organisation of the work of the european parliament without any response from the union's top officials. our citizens have sent us over 1.3 million online petitions to change this shameful waste of their taxes. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i want to believe that this initiative of ours will lead to the creation of a single workplace. i repeat, one of the european parliament's offices, before the general public loses all confidence in this institution.
in writing ladies and gentlemen, the material presented is the right answer to a traumatic problem that bothers eu citizens and us meps: that the ep should have one seat. a lot of good arguments are constantly killed by the fact that this decision is in the hands of 28 prime ministers. nevertheless, most citizens blame the european parliament for the situation. it is therefore right to try to amend the treaty so that this power to decide on its seat is vested in parliament. the european parliament is responsible to the citizens for the location of its seat and we do not have to repeat and explain to the citizens that the ep has nothing to do with it. i hope that the european council will adopt this view, that the prime ministers will be wise and leave the decision to us. it is also important for the confidence that parliament will seek in the next elections.
in writing, the european budget is a sign of solidarity between the member states. it is also an important tool to overcome the current crisis. the possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations under heading 1b must be duly examined and, if necessary, the flexibility instrument to supplement funding under the general budget must be mobilised. the important political priorities of the union must be adequately financed. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument demonstrates once again the need for appropriate flexibility of the union budget as a whole.
in writing − this is a request from romania, germany and the czech republic for financial assistance to deal with the consequences of drought, forest fires and floods, through the solidarity fund. it was created to help the affected regions within europe in the event of major natural disasters and to express europe's solidarity with them. this is the second mobilisation of this european aid instrument in 2013. the commission proposes to mobilise a total of eur 400,5 million in commitment and payment appropriations.
written − the european solidarity fund is a financial instrument of the european union to support member states in their efforts to recover from natural disasters. four member states are applying for aid. romania, which has been hit by extreme drought, which has led to crop failures as well as widespread fires. the commission estimates that the damage caused amounted to eur 806,7 million. in may of this year, germany, austria, and the czech republic were hit by extensive flooding. the total damage from the floods is estimated at eur 8,2 billion for germany, eur 866,5 million for austria and eur 637,1 million for the czech republic. the applications comply with the criteria laid down in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002.
written − in this proposal, the commission intends to mobilise the funds earmarked to supplement the general budget of the eu for 2013 in the relevant heading of eur 134,05 million, through the flexibility instrument. this appropriation is intended to finance the european social fund with a view to increasing the budgetary appropriations for france, italy and spain for 2013 by a total of eur 150 million.
in writing − satellite navigation technologies are important for increasing the efficiency of many sectors of the union's economy, as well as many areas of eu citizens' lives. they provide very accurate and reliable measurements of speed, time, and position. the policies in this area will provide the citizens of the european union with two satellite systems, namely the navigation system established by the galileo programme and the egnos system. the galileo programme aims to create the first global satellite navigation system under civilian control. it is important that it is completely independent of other existing systems and that it is fully interoperable with other navigation systems. at the same time, it shall be aimed at providing uninterrupted gnss services. egnos should be available as soon as possible and should cover the territory of all member states of the union.
in writing − if you have the arab spring and regional unrest in egypt and syria have significantly affected jordan's economy in recent years. the influx of refugees is increasing, road traffic is being restricted, and foreign direct investment flows are being curtailed. in addition, energy prices are rising in the country and natural gas supplies from egypt are repeatedly interrupted. these events have a significant negative impact on the country's balance of payments and fiscal position. in view of this unfavourable situation, the jordanian government has therefore requested the european union to provide macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million. the commission proposes to grant aid of eur 180 million in the form of a medium-term loan.
in writing, the european union and the russian federation are important trading partners. this agreement would improve their mutual cooperation in monitoring trade in drug precursors, which are authorised substances used to manufacture synthetic drugs. drug problems are a serious problem in the european union. synthetic drugs are particularly dangerous, also because of the easy availability of their constituents and, therefore, their easy manufacture. highly addictive substances such as methadone and amphetamines also belong to this group. if we want to fight drugs in the european union, we need effective cooperation at the pan-european level, as i do at the international level.
in writing − the agreement between the european union and the russian federation aims to improve cooperation between the two trading partners in the area of monitoring the trade in drug precursors. drug precursors are legally available substances that can be used to produce synthetic drugs. for example, acetic acid is used in the production of heroin. drug precursors are subject to relatively strict controls on import, export or transit, depending on the risk of misuse. the european commission therefore submitted a proposal for a regulation in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure in order to establish a supervisory framework. this international agreement was signed on 4 june 2013 at the eu-russia summit in yekaterinburg. it is based on cooperation between the parties in monitoring trade in certain chemicals and on a system of mutual administrative assistance. in addition to administrative assistance, it also contains provisions on scientific and technical cooperation. i consider that provision of this kind is very important in the context of the current boom in synthetic drugs, which i also mentioned last month. they aim to identify new methods of abuse as well as appropriate countermeasures. the joint expert monitoring group will be composed of representatives of the competent authorities responsible for the administration and proper implementation of the agreement.
in writing − decision 2009/371/jha establishing europol, in article 26 (1), obliges the council to draw up a list of third states and organisations with which europol should conclude agreements. the decision extends that list to include additional countries, namely mexico, brazil, georgia and the united arab emirates. the justification for this extension is set out in a recommendation of the europol management board, which it prepared for the council back in 2012. however, the commission has recently presented a new proposal for a regulation on europol, which amends the rules for the conclusion of agreements with third countries. the proposal therefore appears to be incompatible with the treaty of lisbon and the procedure is legally incorrect.
in writing − if you have a coherent policy and a high degree of solidarity between member states are necessary to overcome the current economic and social crisis, to create new jobs, to increase the competitiveness of the union economy and to return to sustainable growth. public budgets need to be consolidated, but this also requires a greater impact from the funds available. the european union's structural funds and the cohesion fund are important instruments of cohesion policy. the same applies to the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. however, they need to be reformed in order to revive the union's economy. however, it is particularly important to focus on the transparency aspect. the financial means allocated to solidarity and cohesion must achieve their intended objective.
in writing − cohesion policy as an eu investment policy delivers tangible and quantifiable results in the long term in terms of increasing economic growth, job creation and reducing disparities between regions. cohesion policy makes the european union develop more homogeneously, making the eu's internal market more competitive on a global scale. cohesion policy reform after 2013 was essential. the new legal framework is clearer and simpler, reflecting the challenges faced by cohesion policy. it also brings more effective regulation and more transparency in the implementation of the rules laid down. i very much welcome the development of indicators to measure the quality and performance of the projects financed, which have not yet been harmonised in the individual member states. the implementation of so-called smart specialisation is becoming a new challenge for the individual regions, which will have to strategically evaluate their strengths and opportunities. i believe that such specialisation will lead to greater interregional cooperation and greater mobility of goods, services, workers and knowledge. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done in preparing the report i voted for today.
in writing − if you have the main objective of the european social fund proposal for the period 2014-2020 is to help european countries adapt to changes in the labour market. the european social fund is a major instrument of the european union which helps to compensate for the differences in levels of development between regions within the european union. it also mitigates the social costs that arise in the process of transformation of post-communist economies. it is also important for funding human capital or supporting groups of the population facing the threat of social exclusion. however, i think it is necessary to emphasise in particular the aspect of flexibility, which is particularly important in order to allow countries to respond flexibly to their own specific socioeconomic problems, which will greatly facilitate the mobilisation of funds through this instrument.
in writing. − tackling the unemployment of more than 20 million people is one of the current political priorities of the member states and the european union, and the european social fund has become a concrete expression of the active effort to remedy this situation. i am a firm supporter of ensuring that sufficient resources are available for the operation of the various programmes, since the european social fund must be financed as a matter of priority and in a proportionate manner. the european social fund is to facilitate, in the new 2014-2020 programming period, flexible adaptation of workers and the unemployed to the constantly changing conditions of the labour market by providing adequate education or the required skills, by promoting mobility and effective communication between schools, the private sector and workers. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report on the european social fund.
in writing − if you have a well-designed cohesion policy is essential to meet the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy as one of the most important investment instruments in this area. the proposal for the european regional development fund for the period 2014-2020 aims to promote regional and local development and to eliminate disparities and backwardness between regions. it is essential that it is properly targeted and properly targeted at the countries most in need of this form of assistance. only in this way will investment in research, the environment, the promotion of smes, infrastructure, transport, education and other important areas be effectively co-financed.
in writing − european territorial cooperation is also one of the objectives of cohesion policy, which provides a framework for activities between national, regional and local authorities from individual member states or border regions of third countries with competence in this area. these tasks require their cooperation and joint action at the appropriate territorial level. european territorial cooperation, if properly identified, will then make a significant contribution to territorial cohesion, which is the objective also set out in the lisbon treaty. this proposal from the european commission creates a specific legal basis for the contribution of the european regional development fund to european territorial cooperation.
written − the cohesion fund helps member states with a gni per capita of less than 90% of the union average to invest in trans-european transport networks and the environment. the cohesion fund is part of the new funds, which form a common strategic framework comprising the structural funds, the cohesion fund, as well as the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european maritime and fisheries fund. this is a new legislative package on cohesion policy. the draft regulation identifies the investment priorities to which cohesion fund support is subject, such as environmental protection and promoting resource efficiency, increasing institutional capacity and the efficiency of public administration, supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy, adapting to climate change, promoting sustainable transport, etc. it is therefore very important that the cohesion fund has a defined amount of funding.
written − the european grouping of territorial cooperation was created by regulation (ec) no 1082/2006 with the aim of creating a cooperation instrument at european union level, which will have its own legal personality. the main task of this grouping was to overcome the obstacles to territorial cooperation. in 2011, the commission presented a report on the application of this regulation, identifying areas for improvement. these amendments relate in particular to taking account of the treaty of lisbon, simplifying and clarifying certain provisions which cause confusion and establishing a legal basis for the participation of authorities and regions from non-member countries. the amendments to the regulation should in particular ensure a higher degree of legal certainty and enhance territorial cooperation within the european union and between regions of the member states and third countries.
in writing. − the primary objectives of the revision of the original regulation were to simplify, provide legal certainty and flexibility in the application of the rules and to reduce the administrative burden on groups and their prospective members. the egtc shall be deemed to be approved by tacit consent after the expiry of the six-month limited time limit for the examination given to the competent national authorities during the authorisation procedure. exemption from this rule shall be granted only to the member state in which the proposed seat of the egtc is to be located in accordance with the egtc's constituent instrument. the new regulation makes a clear distinction between the statute and the convention. only the convention is subject to formal approval, reducing the administrative burden for members by facilitating and speeding up the authorisation process. it clarifies the rules on the employment of the staff of the groupings, whereby members may choose between the law of the grouping's seat, the law of the place where the staff is employed or the national law of the staff concerned. the egtcs will be open to all publicly owned undertakings providing public services, including those governed by private law. i hope that this regulation, which is more precise, will put an end to arbitrary and sometimes unlawful interpretations by the member states. that's why i voted for this motion.
i could not support this report because the ability of a company to make a profit does not depend on whether it is run by a woman or a man. to say otherwise is to promote the prejudice that one sex is less able to succeed in business than the other. this prejudice is part of the proposed directive. we argue that 40% representation of women in the top management of companies will improve their management. but at the same time, in the same directive, we say that quotas only apply to non-executive bodies. which means we have no faith in women's ability to run a business. fortunately, the backbone of the economy is small and medium-sized enterprises, which will ultimately not be affected by the directive. this way, at least some of the economic activity avoids pointless social engineering. i regret that my colleagues did not support even the exception for family businesses.
in writing − if you have the european union's gender equality policy aims to ensure equal access to positions of influence and power for both men and women. the aim of this proposal is to promote gender equality in economic decision-making, particularly in the case of listed companies. this is also important because one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to increase the employment rate of women to 75%. the promotion of gender equality is also one of the fundamental principles of the european union, enshrined in its treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. gender imbalance in management functions nevertheless persists. according to commission figures, only 15.8% of the top management positions in the largest listed companies are currently held by women. progress in remedying this situation is slow, as this share is increasing by only 0,6% per year. that is why we cannot remain passive in this respect.
written − the european union's common agricultural policy is one of the priority areas of european policies. but it is extremely difficult to control. it is essential to focus in particular on reducing bureaucratic obstacles and on better regulation. unnecessary administrative burden on national authorities should be eliminated to the highest possible level. we need to focus properly on farmers and rural communities, taking into account all their specific needs arising from their specific territorial characteristics. the institutional framework of the cap must be much more rational, fair and efficient.
in writing. − in the light of the challenges and experience of the cap, a revision of the financing and monitoring system is inevitable and timely. experience in the past shows that in the absence of information flows, the beneficiaries did not have the necessary knowledge. member states should therefore place greater emphasis on the establishment of an information and advice system for beneficiaries. they should be aware of the possibilities for support and the rules governing it. in many cases, beneficiaries of the programmes were hampered by the fact that they did not receive payments on time. a system of pre-financing is needed to ensure the continuity of the disbursement of funds and to accelerate the implementation of programmes. direct payments should be made more flexible within the time limits provided for. this is also necessary for efficient use and compliance with payment deadlines. in order to ensure effective use and efficient and effective management of union funds, controls on the management of funds in the member states should be carried out by the paying agencies. this is to prevent irregularities, to prevent misuse of subsidies.
i am not an economist or a financial expert, so i will leave the analysis of the proposal to my colleagues. but i'm not sure we're here to determine what an hourly wage for a profession should be. this is ridiculous. then we could just as easily legislate hourly rate caps for lawyers, marketing consultants, or other professionals. the fee we pay for a service, whether it's financial advice or car repairs, is based on supply and demand. freedom of establishment includes the possibility to ask for remuneration for the service offered. the freedom of the customer includes the possibility to refuse service. everything else is socialist nonsense.
in writing, the range of different types of investment products is increasing. these offer solutions tailored to the needs of retail investors, but are extremely complex. the provision of the information that investors need in this context is not coordinated and is often ineffective, causing significant losses for many. it is therefore essential that specific rules are clearly laid down at european union level that will apply to all market participants in investment products. documents containing key information shall be of the same standard. this avoids discrepancies and contributes to a much higher level of transparency. this is also very important in the context of protecting european consumers.
written − in its communication on the retail investment products package of april 2009, the commission identified two areas of further action: the rules applicable to sales and the rules applicable to the provision of product information. retail investors are offered an increasingly wide range of different types of investment products. these products often offer specific investment solutions that are tailored to the needs of retail investors, but are often complex and difficult to understand. the scope of this regulation should not be limited to 'package' investments or investments with an (partial) unknown return. for all savings or investment products without exception, a key information document should be made available to consumers. it is necessary and of the utmost importance to establish uniform rules governing transparency at union level to be applied across all investment products market participants in order to avoid divergences and, at the same time, to ensure that a common standard for key information documents is established in a uniform manner so as to allow for harmonisation of the format and content of those documents.
in writing − the proposal forms part of the legislative framework of the common agricultural policy for the period 2014-2020. this is the first time that the european parliament has been involved in the legislative process on this major reform of the common agricultural policy, under the codecision procedure. the involvement of the european parliament in the whole process has demonstrated that parliament is able to improve this difficult legislation and make it more democratic. this commission proposal is intended to replace council regulation (eu) no 1698/2005 of 20 september 2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development and follows up on the proposal submitted by the commission on 6 october 2011 laying down common rules for all funds operating under the common strategic framework.
in writing − another part of the common agricultural policy package for the period 2014-2020, which constitutes an important priority. the proposal provides for the organisation of individual markets under the common agricultural policy, for example the market for sugar, wine, milk or olive oil. the aim is to set a specific type of policy for each sector, but all in order to respect the financial interests of the european union.
in writing − if you have the new format of the common agricultural policy for the years 2014-2020 should, first of all, ensure a level playing field for all member states of the european union. an important issue in relation to the application of its new form is therefore, in particular, the elimination of discriminatory elements such as the gradual reduction of direct payments and any corresponding reduction of direct payments on the basis of the criterion of the size of the agricultural holding, including financial discipline. a very important point of the reform is the definition of the concept of 'active agriculture'. the provision of direct payments must necessarily be targeted at farmers who are actually actively engaged in agricultural activity.
in writing − if you have in order to allow the reform of the common agricultural policy to take effect from 1 january 2014, it is necessary to reach agreement on it as soon as possible, as well as on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. however, it is very unlikely that all parts of the reform will be applicable as of 1 january 2014. it is therefore necessary to provide for transitional measures of a technical nature to help smoothly overcome the transitional period between the two programming periods and adapt to the new rules.
in writing − this report is of particular importance to the slovak republic. slovakia sees the proposal as the implementation of the political agreement on the european budget for the years 2014 to 2020, where slovakia and romania, as the only countries to which the so-called reversed safety net applies, have negotiated an exception to the n+2 rule for the following years. the slovak republic, together with the commission, has identified and examined together various practical measures to reduce the risk of under-utilisation of the operational programmes for the years 2007 to 2013. even after the application of the identified practical measures, the risk of under-utilisation of resources was estimated at eur 343 million (the risk of under-utilisation without application of practical measures is estimated at up to eur 613 million). this shows the particular interest of the slovak republic in the swift adoption of the proposal to extend the n+2 rule by 1 year (i.e. change to n+3) for the 2011 and 2012 commitments.
written − the 2007-2013 programming period is coming to an end, with less than two months left. provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing severe financial stability difficulties and on rules on decommitment for certain member states therefore had to be adopted in order to be able to take effect from 2014. in my vote today, as well as during the discussions in the regi committee, i have consistently supported the application of the so-called n plus 3 rule. otherwise, slovakia and romania would have no legal basis to draw up the appropriations originally allocated. sudden attempts to extend the rule in question to other member states just a few months before the end of the programming period would have led to complicated renegotiations and, consequently, delays in the adoption of the entire legislative package for the new programming period 2014 to 2020. this would cause a breakdown in legal certainty and would therefore be a very unfortunate solution for all member states.
in writing − the derogation for slovakia to draw on the eu funds takes account of the objective and subjective difficulties our country has had in using the union's financial assistance. the european parliament is not the place to look for the culprit. it's in the best interest of all our citizens to make this right. i am glad that all slovak members, without distinction, wanted this important exception to be passed in parliament. we reached out to colleagues together and managed to get enough votes. thank you to everyone who supported us in this.
in writing − if you have this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european social fund by certain member states, namely france, spain and italy. this is to address the specific and pressing issues of unemployment, youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the additional funding is to be eur 150 million to be allocated through the flexibility instrument. in the current economic and social crisis, the european union cannot forget its social dimension and the aspect of mutual solidarity.
in writing − this is a proposal to renew the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati. the new protocol shall apply for a period of three years. the main objective is to strengthen mutual cooperation between the two parties. it is important to focus on the aspect of sustainable fishing and responsible use of resources. the new protocol provides for a total financial contribution of eur 4 428 000. however, the protocol does not respect certain provisions of a binding regional agreement signed by eight developing pacific island states, including kiribati.
i voted against the proposed text. if the aim of this proposal were to save money, the resolution would not contain a requirement to continue using the existing parliament buildings. if the proposers and long-time promoters of this proposal were concerned with cutting unnecessary expenditure, they would have begun asking about the house of european history or the new building in luxembourg long ago. this proposal, like the whole campaign around it, has the sole purpose of making its authors visible. the european parliament voted on a text which ignores the very symbolism of the meaning of european integration. this text means that money and momentary personal popularity mean more to most mps than the legacy of two world wars. since this text has passed, we can be ashamed before our parents, but also before our children.
in writing − the question of the location of the european institutions' headquarters is a particularly sensitive one. in any event, a political compromise must be reached. it is, in particular, the seat of the european parliament, the only institution directly elected by european citizens. in times of economic and social crisis, many member states are forced to adopt austerity budgets. i think that we in the european parliament should act with the same responsibility and limit the waste of funds. the organisation of the european parliament's premises is an area where considerable savings can be made. it should not be forgotten that in this context, six petitions have already been submitted in the past, in which citizens of the european union express a demand to end the european parliament's activities in two places.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − to emerge from the current crisis, we need to develop our innovation capacity as a sustainable and effective solution to the challenges identified in the horizon 2020 framework programme. it is to strengthen these capacities that we have set up the european institute of innovation and technology in budapest. this was the first eu attempt to establish a knowledge triangle research work. the activities of the scientific and innovation partnerships represent a major opportunity for the whole union, but especially for the central and eastern european member states. cooperation between universities, research centres and businesses is being strengthened to bridge the gap between research, education and entrepreneurial activities. since 2010, the kics have been successfully operating in 12 eu member states with over 200 partners. that is why i support a gradual increase in the budget over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to make the eit a strong innovation partner in europe and beyond. maintaining such a partnership could prove to be of strategic importance from both a technological and economic point of view.
as a doctor, i support science and research because my entire medical practice has been based on their results. the european commission has stated that it will not submit to the regulatory committee proposals for projects that destroy human embryos, including the procurement of embryonic stem cells, in the context of the 7th framework programme. this declaration is annexed to the 2006 decision of the european parliament and of the council. however, the commission did not incorporate this commitment into horizon 2020. the juri committee sought to remedy this deficiency by six amendments which also referred to international documents. the itre committee did not take these points into account. there are significant differences between national laws concerning research using human embryos and human embryonic cells. the european union should not harmonise national laws in this area.
i want to speak as a doctor who works in the field of medicine, but also bioethics. progress and saving lives, the health of patients should be our priority. however, i cannot agree with the fact that the commission is going to fund research that is absolutely ethically unacceptable and that destroys human beings embryos our neighbours. strangely, little funding is planned for research on so-called adult stem cells. so far, it's been positively reported that up to 74 different diseases have been positively affected by this kind of research and development, and the destruction of embryos has not yet resulted in any patients being cured. that is why i want to say that, as much as i would like to, i cannot approve such an unethical horizon 2020 and i will not vote for it.
our smes are known to play a significant role in economic growth, sustainable development and job creation, but they are often at a disadvantage compared to their competitors in other parts of the world. i therefore welcome the cosme programme proposed by the commission, whose main objective is to increase the competitiveness of enterprises. by reducing administrative burdens and facilitating access to financial resources, we can bring a major advantage to our entrepreneurs. the new programme should focus on young entrepreneurs and smes at regional and national level. therefore, closer cooperation with representatives of sme organisations should be pursued in policy-making and a stronger network should be sought. it should also be ensured that initiatives representing added value at union level are also supported in addition to those already in competitive sectors. it is therefore essential to support european smes both politically and budgetarily. the union is largely responsible for remedying market and policy failures that affect the competitiveness of entrepreneurs. as regards the cuts to the funds, it is regrettable that the budget has been cut for programmes such as cosme. i consider it essential that the programme creates added value and that the money invested is directed towards measures to stimulate growth. the synergistic effect of the instruments will thus be able to guarantee a more viable and sustainable future for smes.
we have been patiently working for a long time to improve the working conditions of our smes in the union. we propose measures, set up support programmes, seek the necessary financial resources. nevertheless, the business environment in some countries continues to deteriorate. my country, thanks to administrative measures by the government, has fallen seven places in the last competitiveness assessment to 78th place, somewhere behind kazakhstan. despite the union's recommendations, our administration is imposing new reporting and additional fees on small entrepreneurs, cash deposit requirements as a condition for starting a business. commissioner, it might be worthwhile to include in our measures a programme of consultations for senior national economic managers, at which independent experts would present them with suitable, validated and meaningful alternatives for their country to measures to improve the business environment. according to the world economic forum, the most serious problem in my country is excessive bureaucratic burden. however, the government cannot do otherwise than introduce additional statements and require additional fees from the entrepreneurs.
in writing smes are a very important source of economic growth and job creation in the union. the economic crisis since 2008 has had a disproportionate impact on smes. today, only 4% of businesses are self-sufficient. therefore, measures are necessary to ensure that economic operators have access to financial resources. smes need access to finance not only in their start-up and growth phases, but also in their development phase. the new seven-year eu budget will include the cosme programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes, which focuses on competitiveness and entrepreneurship. it shall focus on measures with the highest leverage and added value. measures to reduce administrative burdens, access to finance and access to markets are important for smes. cosme must not only help businesses with cross-border activities. if smes demonstrate added value, the programme must also cover entities active at local, regional and national level. every year, 150,000 companies and 600,000 jobs are at risk. cosme must also address this market failure i 'm not .
written small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) play a significant role in all economies and i consider them to be the main source of economic growth and job creation across the union. the importance and seriousness of this report is also shown by the fact that smes account for more than 67% of private sector jobs and more than 58% of total turnover in the eu. although negotiations on smes are not easy, i supported this latest report because i think it is good news, with proposals and measures to increase the competitiveness and sustainability of smes in the eu. i welcome any action by the commission that can address key market failures and the limited growth of smes in the union. i agree that better and more favourable conditions for smes should be created at member state level in line with the programme presented. i expect the eu to continue to exchange best practice and information with smes, to address shortcomings and problems, particularly in access to finance, access to union and global markets, and to simplify administrative procedures and rules for setting up a business.
i would like to encourage closer cooperation between the countries of the european union in the development and production of modern defence equipment. in eastern european countries, the defence industry had a good technological base, which is now being exploited by a number of new firms. one of our manufacturers, for example, which develops and manufactures simulation technology, recently won its third contract to supply simulators for helicopter pilot training from the us army. last year, he supplied the u.s. with simulators for military tactical aircraft at a base in alabama, as well as for units operating in afghanistan. i am convinced that closer cooperation between defence equipment manufacturers in europe can lead to the unification of production and thus to lower production costs. the combination of experience and product development of compatible systems products can also lead to more efficient innovation and improve the competitiveness of our production.
our security and defence policy must also strengthen our ability to respond to crises in the world with virtually no geographical or thematic limitations. the new challenges to which we must be able to respond also concern areas such as energy security. i am convinced that the diversification of energy sources and the security of energy supply will play an increasingly important role in europe. it is therefore necessary to ensure, in particular, closer cooperation between member states and our neighbouring countries in the protection of critical infrastructure and to promote steps towards energy self-sufficiency. i believe that this report will contribute to changing the status quo that prevails in the current european security and defence policy. i would therefore like to support the rapporteurs and thank them for the efforts they have put into the preparation of this useful report.
the action programme on taxation in the european union for the period 2014-2020 allows the continuation of the activities carried out under the current programme for the cooperation of tax authorities. the programme shall promote closer cooperation and coordination between national tax authorities in order to eliminate tax evasion, fraud and double taxation. the programme also focuses on important support for innovation and technical progress in the activities of tax institutions. it is therefore in the interest of all of us that the programme to promote cooperation between tax authorities should continue effectively in the next period. i see the extension of its activities to include cooperation with third countries as a natural way of improving its mechanisms in order to achieve the best possible results. however, this extension should be limited, as mr stolojan states in his report, to making the fight against tax evasion and fraud more effective by cooperating with external experts or representatives of international organisations. i am convinced that tax authorities' cooperation in the fight against tax fraud should continue to be systematically promoted.
in writing − the union aims to strengthen its scientific and technological base by creating a european research area in which researchers, scientific knowledge and technology can move freely, and to promote the union's competitiveness, including that of its industry. in order to promote these objectives, it is desirable that the union carry out activities to carry out research, technological development and demonstration activities, to promote international cooperation, to disseminate and optimise results and to stimulate training and mobility. the innovation union flagship initiative sets out a strategic and integrated approach to research and innovation, which sets out the framework and objectives to which the union will contribute in the future through its research and development funding. research and innovation are also key factors for the other flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular the resource efficient europe, the industrial policy for the era of globalisation and the digital agenda for europe.
written − horizon 2020 is ambitiously responding to major challenges in the fields of scientific research, industrial or societal progress. but in no way, in the context of this progress, can i agree to the continuation of the funding of controversial human embryonic stem cell projects with european money. in my country - slovakia - as in poland or lithuania, such research is illegal. how does the commission intend to continue to defend this immoral and illegal research? excellent science and any advances in biotechnology must always be ethical. i refuse to support this european strategy which continues to count on funding projects which, in the name of science, take the lives of the most vulnerable human embryos.
in writing − the horizon 2020 package fully supports the europe 2020 strategy, which has established that research and innovation are crucial to achieving the goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in this context, all policy instruments and measures are designed to contribute to research and innovation and further develop the european research area allowing the free movement of knowledge, researchers and technologies and accelerating the commercialisation and penetration of innovation across the single market. horizon 2020 should be implemented with a view to directly contributing to the creation of industrial leadership, growth and jobs in europe and should reflect the strategic vision of the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions presented in october 2010.
written − the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established by regulation to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states through the full integration of the knowledge triangle. the regulation requires the commission to submit a proposal for a first strategic innovation programme (sip). the sip should define the long-term priority areas of the eit and also include an assessment of its economic impact and capacity to generate the best innovation added value. at the same time, the sip should take into account the results of the eit's monitoring and evaluation.
written − the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth gives a major role to the european institute of innovation and technology (eit), which is delivering on a number of key initiatives. it is expected that, in the period 2014-2020, the eit will contribute to the objectives of horizon 2020 the framework programme for research and innovation through the integration of research, innovation and education. through kic activities, the eit promotes closer links between universities, research centres and businesses in order to bridge the gap between research, education and entrepreneurship and thus strengthen the eu's innovation capacity. in this context, the commission proposes to allocate approximately eur 3 billion to the eit and to integrate the scope of the eit into horizon 2020.
in writing − if you have small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in particular are important contributors to growth and employment in the union. competitiveness must be at the heart of the union's europe 2020 priorities for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. these undertakings within the union face the challenge of being globally competitive. however, they are hampered by market failures that threaten their competitiveness vis-à-vis firms operating worldwide. as a result, smes in the eu are less productive in terms of labour and resources and grow more slowly than their competitors in, for example, the united states, and have a lower ability to adapt successfully to changing framework conditions than larger companies in europe. the significant difficulties faced by smes are further exacerbated by the ongoing economic and financial crisis and by rising commodity and resource prices. and while action to address these market failures is primarily the responsibility of individual member states and regions, in some areas there is clear potential for added value from action at eu level as a whole.
in writing − set of proposals for horizon 2020 developed in full accordance with the commission communication the budget of europe 2020 fully supports the europe 2020 strategy, which has identified research and innovation as priorities for achieving the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. horizon 2020 shall address directly the main societal challenges identified in the europe 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives. at the same time, it will help to create industrial leadership in europe. it will also lead to raising the quality of the scientific base to the cutting-edge level that is essential for sustainability and long-term prosperity in europe.
in writing − the european statistical system (ess) has recently successfully consolidated its activities to ensure the development, production and dissemination of high quality european statistics, including improving the management of the system. at the same time, however, some weaknesses have been identified, particularly in the statistical quality management framework. in this context, the commission presented measures to address these weaknesses in its communication to the european parliament and the council 'towards a sound quality management of european statistics'. in particular, it proposed a targeted amendment to the european statistics regulation in question in order to correct the shortcomings identified.
in writing − if you have following the commission's communication on the europe 2020 budget, which recommends rationalising and simplifying the union's financial instruments and making them more focused on the eu contribution, a european union programme for social change and innovation was established. as recently as june 2010, the european council endorsed the commission's proposal for a europe 2020 strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which set out five headline targets (including three focusing on employment, the fight against poverty and social exclusion and education) and seven flagship initiatives. a coherent policy framework is thus established for the period of the next ten years. the european council advocated the full mobilisation of relevant eu instruments and policies to support the achievement of common objectives and called on member states to step up coordinated action so that the stated objective could be achieved.
written − the union's environment and climate policy and legislation have made a significant contribution to improving the state of the environment. however, major problems persist, which could have serious consequences for europe if they were not resolved. over the past 20 years, the life programme has been a resounding success as a means of addressing the environmental and climate-related challenges facing europeans. in this context, it can therefore be considered justified to set up a dedicated programme for financing environmental and climate protection measures provided for by the life programme.
written − the commission has accepted parliament's and the council's request to split the proposed fiscus programme and has adopted the proposal for two separate programmes: fiscalis 2020 and customs 2020. the fiscalis 2020 programme aims to promote cooperation between national tax authorities to help maximise their efficiency. this would create networks, joint actions and training of tax officials, as well as funding of it systems, which would allow the exchange of information between national tax administrations. the objectives of fiscalis 2020 should include the protection of the financial interests of the eu and the member states and the improvement of the capacity of tax authorities. at the same time, the commission proposed to pay particular attention to the fight against fraud, to make efforts to reduce the administrative burden and to deepen cooperation with third countries.
in writing − the commission published the draft fiscus regulation back in 2011. this programme merges two currently existing separate programmes, fiscalis 2013, which deals with taxation issues, and customs 2013, which deals with customs duties issues. the commission took into account the objections of the european parliament and divided the programme into two parts, fiscalis 2020 and customs 2020. in its customs 2020 proposal, the commission addresses the issues of customs cooperation and customs union. the objective of fiscalis 2013 is to strengthen the internal market by improving the functioning of the tax systems of all member states of the union through enhanced cooperation between them.
in writing − the current solvency i directives are expected to be repealed in january 2014, when the new solvency ii directives are expected to enter into force. the implementation date for member states is set at 30 june 2013, as a result of the so-called 'quick-fix i' directive, which was adopted in 2012. in view of the ongoing negotiations on the omnibus ii directive, it is clear that it will not be possible to approve the text, to adopt it in the european parliament and in the council, before the end of this year. this is why the commission is proposing a quick-fix ii directive, in order to avoid a legislative vacuum caused by the late publication of the omnibus ii directive in the official journal of the european union.
in writing − if you have this resolution represents the european parliament's contribution to the ninth session of the ministerial conference of the world trade organisation. the resolution underlines the european parliament's commitment to the multilateral trading system. the european parliament hopes for an ambitious and balanced outcome of the ninth ministerial conference. the most important issues are those of facilitating world trade, agriculture and development. as the prospects for meaningful progress in meeting the original objectives of the doha agenda are slim, the multilateral trading system needs to be thoroughly reformed. the european parliament should also be fully informed, which requires strengthening the parliamentary dimension of the world trade organisation and the establishment of a permanent european parliament representation in that organisation.
in writing − if you have business and enterprises in all their forms, such as smes, cooperatives, social enterprises, the professions or craft enterprises, are the driving force of the european economy. entrepreneurship needs to be promoted at national, as well as pan-european and international level. also, in view of the problems of unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment, that the european union is currently facing, short- and medium-term measures aimed at promoting entrepreneurship should be focused. focus should be on education, training, and creating a more conducive business environment and better opportunities.
in writing − the draft resolution was drawn up in the light of the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy. the report takes into account the reality of a constantly changing geopolitical environment, new threats, cross-border terrorism, instability, poverty, hunger, the rise of new powers, the continuing economic and social crisis, etc. the report stresses the need for the european union to adapt to these changes. these are extremely important and sensitive issues which will need to be thoroughly discussed at the december european council summit on defence.
in writing − this report underlines the fact that if we want a truly effective and functional common security and defence policy, we need a strong european defence technology as well as an industrial base. this will have a positive impact on growth, innovation, the development of the union's social dimension as well as on employment developments. growth and innovation are, in turn, key elements of stability and security.
written − the draft resolution has been prepared in the light of the commission communication of 2 october 2013 strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union. there are currently 26.6 million unemployed in the european union. the youth unemployment rate has climbed to an incredible 23%. the long-term unemployment rate is also rising, reaching its highest level in history. poverty is increasing, and social inequalities are widening. it is therefore essential to take the social dimension into account in all our policies.
for the efd group statistics that say that about 600 foreign workers die every year in tiny qatar prove that the working conditions of foreigners coming mainly from india, nepal, bangladesh and pakistan are catastrophic. it turns out that the sponsored visa mechanism applied by the qatari administration makes foreign workers in this country practically slaves. what do we call people who have to live in the squalor of crowded labor camps with no access to drinking water, in extreme heat, and to toil for days in dangerous conditions on construction sites without being paid or able to leave this captivity or country if they don't free themselves from the clutches of modern-day slavers? let us not hide our heads in the sand like ostriches from this fact. the mechanisms of the visa sponsorship law are the full responsibility of the state administration of qatar, whose composition is fully decided by the emir. he needs to be honestly and sensitively explained that this needs to be changed.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - my dear officer. as regards the situation of roma women, i would like to draw attention to the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, which states that the presence of roma women in the labour market is extremely low. and we believe that without income from work, it's almost impossible to break out of the poverty trap. in addition to discrimination and generally high unemployment, we need to pay particular attention to the issue of employability. only 68% of roma women are literate and 36% have never been to school, which places them at a serious and irreplaceable disadvantage in the labour market. the key to the problem is education. the unemployment of roma youth, roma girls, cannot be helped by the youth guarantee. neither lifelong learning nor retraining will be effective if they are not properly based. the responsibility of the member states in this area is undeniable and, however great the council recommendations just adopted may be, they cannot replace the activity and action of the member states in implementing the roma strategy. this is urgent.
i don't know how many times in the last ten years we've talked about solving the roma problem, about a roma strategy. first, the criticism was directed at countries such as hungary and slovakia, then romania and bulgaria, and now, after ten years, when the situation has changed and the so-called unfit roma are beginning to benefit from the free movement of persons, a new understanding of the situation is emerging in countries such as italy, france and the united kingdom. it leads to the fact that in france, the slums are being demolished and the roma are being deported from romania and bulgaria, and we always meet here twice a year, or we organize some kind of conference and there we discuss what to do to improve the situation of the roma. i've been in the european parliament since 2010, and we've been talking about this for a decade. it's more than obvious that we haven't moved anywhere in these ten years. the money from the structural funds is being stolen or a large part of it is being stolen. and it is precisely to steal this money that the poorest roma in the settlements are exploited. there are projects that are made up that the money never goes to. it's not gonna help those roma. these roma then commit crime, not only on the basis of interest and such a practice, but also on the basis of their children. if we really want to solve the roma problem in europe, then let's start telling ourselves the truth here and stop pretending that a conference in brussels or some five-star hotel will solve it. let's go to those settlements where successful projects have been implemented, but let's not discuss this all the time in the union institutions.
women play a key role in the fight against poverty. this is true of the roma as well as of other peoples of europe. only a woman can become a mother and give a new life. this is why women are most at risk of extreme poverty. i therefore support all efforts to eliminate discrimination against women. every man, woman and man must have an equal chance to decide their own lives. this freedom does not, however, include the right to end a human life. moreover, only the member states have competence in the field of abortion, not the european parliament. i really don't know why this issue has to be in every report. the problem of the roma ethnic group is not the children conceived, but decades of state intervention. it always leads to a loss of responsibility. the return to the ability to provide for oneself and one's family does not come through reproductive rights, but through solidarity, education and the provision of opportunities.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs járóka lívia for her work on the roma strategy, which i believe has been of immense value. country-specific strategies should be applied to roma issues. the economic crisis has also had a negative impact on the situation of women in slovakia, including roma women, which is most evident in the field of employment. roma women have the highest rate of early school leaving. many teenagers have children, and they have little chance of further education. lack of training is one of the main reasons why they are excluded from the labour market and often rely on social assistance instead of looking for work. it's a vicious circle. their children are severely affected by child poverty. childcare strategies should be developed to ensure that roma children receive appropriate care. the key to effective education for roma children is education based on parental partnership. action plans should focus on child rearing and participation in education. they can provide information courses to ensure that roma women are promoters of their communities.
mr. president, the commissioner is here. at the end of november, regional elections were held in slovakia, resulting in the election of an extremist, xenophobic, racist president, who was considered by the vast majority to be a fascist. in the shadow of this shocking fact, little attention has been paid to the fact that the country's socialist prime minister, instead of standing up against the rise of extremism, encouraged voters in another county to go to the polls so that hungarian voters would not be elected county mayor in a slovak city. such incitement to discrimination against minorities is extremely dangerous. in slovakia, the government has taken a series of repressive measures against the hungarian minority. the largest minority - the hungarian - is virtually excluded from actual decision-making. the measure to close primary schools leads to the closure of half of the primary schools teaching in hungarian. i'm asking you to pay attention to this process.
canada is a civilized country. however, the european union has also been negotiating the terms of a trade agreement with canada since 2009. canada is an important trading partner of the member states of the union and the successful removal of customs and administrative barriers could contribute to an increase in trade of around 23%. national economic experts estimate that such an improvement in trade turnover will contribute to an increase in the union's gross domestic product of around eur 12 billion. although there is little doubt that the agreement is mutually beneficial, its ratification is subject to internal rules on both the canadian and the union sides. and the visa policy of our canadian partners towards some of the union's member states may be a certain obstacle to the ratification process. i therefore think that, after the technical aspects of the agreements have been resolved, it would be good to create the best possible conditions for the smooth ratification of these agreements.
the automotive industry plays a major role in the development of many eu regions and thus contributes to maintaining employment. however, global competition shows us that if the automotive industry in europe is to maintain its international position, it must really mobilise and, among other things, focus more on research and innovation. there is a lot of room for improvement, particularly in the area of eco-innovation. the restructuring currently under discussion deserves particular attention from the member states in coordination with the european union in order to avoid a negative impact, especially on employees. i would also like to remind you that the member states are also able to use the european union funds earmarked for this purpose in the new programming period for convergence. however, i believe that the automotive industry will become more competitive and will continue to be a source of growth and, above all, of employment.
the 'rights and citizenship' programme for 2014-2020 gives us reason to hope that the rights of eu citizens guaranteed by the treaties will be even more fully respected. improving access to rights is at the heart of the programme, and we can all identify with this objective. as a representative, i often find that eu citizens call my attention to practices that infringe eu law by member states' administrations. in other cases, the eu citizen may not be sufficiently informed to exercise his rights. our task is to promote the understanding and application of the rights granted by the eu and to propose solutions to problems encountered in practice. the new collection programme can be a very good and comprehensive tool for achieving this, not least because of the flexible way in which the financial opportunities are being used. the areas supported by the new programme, such as the right to free movement or the prohibition of discrimination, and consumer protection, concern the everyday lives of citizens living in the eu. on the day-to-day, on the mobility issue. therefore, in my view, the programme should ensure that all projects implemented under it are designed to strengthen cross-border cooperation.
the european union is undeniably founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, many of these values are in crisis today. the ordinary citizen, but also the experts, often cannot clearly imagine what they actually mean, or what it would mean not to defend them, or to suppress them, and so they push the play of the possible and the legally permissible further and further. a concrete example is human dignity. scientific and technological progress and, in particular, new biotechnologies have opened up new possibilities for the law of terra incognita. and that is where the urgent and pressing question of a clear, legal definition of human dignity for the immediate protection of the individual arises. the union should also fund, as part of its priorities, the raising of legal awareness and knowledge in many areas, such as research where human embryos are destroyed, as there is a clear daily violation of fundamental human rights, in particular the right to life and human dignity.
in writing the creation of europe as an area of freedom, justice and security is required by the treaty on the functioning of the eu itself. it's our political priority. it is in the interest of all of us that europe is a safe and fair place to live. the correct identification of the justice programme for the period 2014-2020 is a significant step towards this objective. it is important for eu citizens to remove obstacles to crossborder litigation. so that citizens of the member states can access justice, no matter where they come from. it is therefore essential to harmonise the quality of justice and the speed of decision-making across the eu in order to tackle endless delays in judicial proceedings, unprofessional decisions and the like. further training of judges, judicial staff and the public on how to protect and ensure their rights in the most effective way is necessary.
for the efd group the new union civil protection mechanism, which merges the two existing community legal instruments into a single instrument, provides the basis for simplifying the rules and mechanisms for activating and providing union assistance. a more rapid response to emergencies will also increase the effectiveness of union supporting intervention in mitigating and eliminating the consequences of various disasters. member states therefore welcome the establishment of an emergency response centre, which will be on duty 24 hours a day to respond as quickly and efficiently as possible. however, it should be borne in mind that any assistance from the union will only serve as a complementary intervention, subject to the direction and coordination of the local authorities authorised to organise the life of the local population in these emergency situations. and i think that's where the organization of our work needs to be rigorously adapted.
emergencies are not uncommon these days. we encounter them slowly every day, and we witness how they affect the lives of many people. i support the report because i think it is good news and the content of it can go a long way towards increasing the safety of all citizens of the european union in crisis situations, because not just luck but adequate preparedness can save thousands of lives. i appreciate that the civil protection mechanisms are being linked to the financial instrument and that in some parts of it the procedures for activating the mechanism are being simplified. as we often find that the capacity to help citizens affected by disasters is beyond the capabilities of the country concerned, i would welcome a more flexible link between the civil protection mechanism and the european union solidarity fund. i also expect the mechanism to progressively improve the effectiveness of civil protection systems for prevention and preparedness for all types of disasters, not only within the union but also outside it.
in writing − if you have the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice within which persons may move freely. the commission communication on the europe 2020 strategy sets out a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the creation of a well-functioning area of justice, in which barriers to cross-border judicial proceedings and access to justice in cross-border situations have been removed, is important in support of the specific objectives and flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. the need to rationalise and simplify union funding is now being emphasised in particular. a reduction in the number of programmes and the rationalisation, simplification and harmonisation of funding rules and procedures can help to achieve a sound management of resources. to this end, the justice programme was established, ensuring the continuation and further development of the activities carried out previously under the three programmes.
written − the european union stands by the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, which are unique to and common to the member states. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which became legally binding with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, sets out the fundamental rights and freedoms to which individuals are entitled within the union. it is essential to guarantee the full enjoyment of these rights and to remove all related obstacles. experience with action at union level has shown that achieving the set objectives in practice requires a combination of several instruments, including legislation, policy initiatives and funding. it therefore appears important to establish a funding programme. in response to the need for simplification and efficient management of funds, this regulation establishes the rights and citizenship programme, which ensures the continuation and further development of the activities carried out previously under the three programmes.
written − the rights and citizenship programme is intended to merge the three existing citizenship programmes. these are the fundamental rights and citizenship programmes, daphne iii, the 'combating discrimination and diversity' and 'gender equality' sections of the employment and social solidarity programme. in the new programme, we sought not only better funding for specific initiatives, but also to extend the scope of the funds in the area of minority rights, including roma rights, and the fight against racism and xenophobia. the consequences of the financial and economic crisis are increasingly threatening our fundamental values. in these circumstances, the rights and citizenship programme pays great attention to combating discrimination, hatred, the marginalisation of other groups, segregation and all forms of violence. it is particularly important that the rights of persons with disabilities are guaranteed. eu funding must contribute to a more open society, one of the commitments of the eu 2020 strategy. however, i regret that due to the inability of the institutions to agree on implementing and delegated acts, the commission will only publish a call for proposals next year and therefore the actual implementation of the programme will only be possible in the second quarter of 2014.
in writing mr. chairman, the treaty on the functioning of the european union only talks about equality between men and women. there is no legal basis for the use of the terms 'gender' and 'gender equality'. the extended meaning of the term gender is also not supported by international law. its only definition is found in the rome statute of the international criminal court. quote: "in social contexts, it refers to both sexes, male and female. the term gender does not imply any other meaning which differs from the meaning already mentioned. end of quote. the idea that inequality leads to exploitation comes from marxist doctrine. the communists have never hidden their desire to eliminate the 'bourgeois-capitalist power structures'. marriage and the family, according to marxists, are products of a power structure that is meant to serve as a means of maintaining the power of capital. in the report submitted, the term 'gender' and 'gender equality' appear 12 times. it's not a coincidence. thank you. thank you.
in writing regulation (ec) no 55/2008 provides for an autonomous trade preference (aop) system for the republic of moldova, under which all duties on industrial products are abolished and access to the eu market for agricultural products is improved. on the basis of that regulation, the ppa scheme is to apply until 31 december 2015. it is of the utmost importance that uninterrupted trade flows from the republic of moldova are ensured by that date and that the aips are applied without interruption throughout their period of validity.
in writing − if you have following the european parliament's refusal in december last year to approve the extension of the fisheries protocol with morocco, which was due to expire on 27 february 2012, the european commission has started negotiations to sign a new protocol. it was criticised mainly on economic and environmental grounds, and there were also comments on the weak impact of the financial contribution on the moroccan fisheries sector. the main issue with which the european parliament expressed its greatest concern, and the importance of which both parties were fully aware, is the fact that it is essential to respect strict sustainability criteria when determining surpluses and fishing opportunities. although some aspects of the protocol will be further adapted by the relevant committees, the protocol is marked by significant progress and improvements in the issues concerned.
written − the european union commits itself to promoting a decent work agenda both internally and in its external relations. labour standards are a key element of the concept of decent work. the ratification of the ilo conventions by the member states thus represents an important signal as regards the coherence of the union's policy on improving labour standards worldwide. it is therefore necessary to remove at eu level all legal obstacles to ratification by member states. at the same time, according to the draft council decision, member states were empowered to ratify, in the interest of the union, those parts of chemicals convention no 170 which fall within the union's competence. in order to ensure the protection of health and safety at work, it is justified for the member states to make the necessary efforts to ratify the convention in question.
written − the un international convention against organised crime is the first-ever global instrument established to combat transnational organised crime and the illicit trade in firearms. it is also supplemented by three protocols laying down specific measures to combat specific crimes. they relate in particular to trafficking in human beings, smuggling of migrants and the production and illicit trafficking of firearms. in this context, the european union has adjusted its legislation on record-keeping, firearms marking, firearms disposal, export, import and transit licence or authorisation requirements, enhanced controls at export points and brokering activities. given that the existing instruments have already been reformed and new legislative measures have been adopted, the european union can now ratify the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition.
in writing − the accession of bulgaria and romania has led to the enlargement of the eu customs union. in this context, the union was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members in order to reach an agreement on a countervailing duty to balance the increase in the level of the duties imposed and the resulting significant losses. the eu has so far concluded such compensation agreements with brazil, cuba, new zealand, australia, argentina and the usa. the agreement with the people's republic of china aimed at restoring its original trade rights concerns in particular mushrooms, garlic, chocolate and confectionery.
in writing − if you have there is a longstanding dispute between the european union and the united states over a ban on the importation of hormone-containing beef into the eu. nevertheless, a memorandum of understanding was concluded between the eu and the us in may 2009, which is, so to speak, the prerequisite and starting point for a definitive settlement of the hormone-containing beef dispute. two phases have been completed so far. in the context of reaching the third phase, a revision and extension of the memorandum is also proposed. this procedure allows both parties to be guaranteed legal certainty and additional time to negotiate a final settlement of the outstanding dispute.
in writing, − fisheries relations between the european union and the republic of côte d'ivoire were formally established in 1990 with the first partnership agreement. it's of immense significance to both sides. the commission notes that the agreement was concluded on the basis of the same principles as the one in the original agreement. it provides fishing opportunities for union fleets fishing mainly for tuna. it also has a strong social dimension, in particular by providing a significant number of jobs. this is also a major contribution to the restoration of the political stability that côte d'ivoire is striving for.
in writing − the exceptional geographical position of the canary islands as regards the sources of supply of certain fishery products essential for domestic consumption imposes additional costs on the sector. this natural handicap, resulting in particular from isolation, remoteness and remoteness, can be removed, in particular, by temporarily suspending customs duties on imports of the products concerned from third countries. a corresponding council regulation provided for the administration of autonomous union tariff quotas for imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013. in the absence of any extension, the current measures will cease to apply on 1 january 2014. taking into account the consultation of interested parties and the formal request submitted by the spanish authorities, i consider it justified to extend the validity of the same tariff quotas also for the period 2014 to 2020.
written − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 16 october 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 supplier and subcontractor companies as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
written − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. on 16 october 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of germany in order to support workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the examination of the application shows that a total of eur 2 305 357 has been mobilised from the egf for germany. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
in writing − the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to 30 december 2011. in the case of denmark, this is the eighth application and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 364 643 from the egf. it concerns the dismissal of 611 workers from a vestas group company. the request was sent to the commission on 21 december 2012 and supplemented by additional information by 16 july 2013. on the basis of the facts available, the commission has concluded that the application qualifies for a grant from the fund.
in writing − relations between the eu and canada can be considered strong and based on common interests and values. there is reason to believe that the strategic partnership agreement currently under negotiation would mark an update and revitalization of relations between the eu and canada and could make a significant contribution to deepening political, economic and cultural relations and to improving cooperation in many areas. the adoption of this agreement would have codified the eu's and canada's status as strategic partners. at the same time, it can be expected that the conclusion of the agreement would have a positive impact on employment in both canada and the union, would lead to the creation of a transatlantic market and would bring about other positive changes. it is important that the agreement is balanced and equally beneficial for both parties.
in writing − the financial crisis has highlighted the interconnectedness of the global financial system, where a failure of the risk management processes of any large market player can spill over to other institutions. in order to increase the resilience of the financial system and adjust its ability to respond to unforeseen circumstances, it is essential that all market participants have a better understanding of the functioning of their business and also of its orderly termination in stressed conditions. in this context, it is correct to point out that no part of the non-bank market infrastructure failed during the financial crisis. nevertheless, these institutions also face considerable pressure. it is of the utmost importance to manage risk effectively, in particular for the benefit of the system as a whole.
in writing − the european space has enormous potential. it is a smaller sector, but generates a turnover of more than eur 6,5 billion. it is important in terms of growth and innovation. the commission proposes measures to unlock the economic growth potential of this sector. this is an important step in the independence of the union in the field of space technologies. this will have a positive impact on job creation and thus contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. however, this requires better coordination between the main actors, such as the european union, the individual member states and esa. the most important thing is to strike the right balance between the different competences.
written − the european commission estimates that cloud computing revenues could reach €148.8 billion in 2014, with 60% of all server workloads being virtualised. the economic and business prospects for cloud computing are therefore very favourable and its development is of considerable economic importance. if we are to exploit the full potential of this area effectively, we need, in particular, good infrastructure, and therefore good mobile as well as fixed networks. the proposed data protection regulatory framework in this area needs to be considered very sensitively. controllers and administrators must have clearly defined rights and obligations, because the protection of personal data must be our priority. at the same time, however, this must not hamper technological development. the threat to privacy is unacceptable.
in writing − the proposal in question is intended to stimulate discussion on the topic. the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) was established to contribute to the development of technical and policy guidelines aimed at the completion of the common internal market in the european union. national regulatory authorities play an important role here, as domestic markets are different in terms of demographics or different consumer demand patterns. however, a relatively short period of time has passed since the establishment of this body and the office. the current focus should be on existing room for improvement. the seat of the office of the authority is also a matter for discussion, as it is the smallest union agency.
in writing − overfishing is one of the european union's fundamental and persistent problems that must be tackled. the council of the european union has committed itself to acting in a sustainable manner in its annual decisions on catches. all future stocks must be managed according to the principle of maximum sustainable yield. however, it is important to focus on population growth, including above a level that is sustainable. the rules of the common fisheries policy must be strictly observed. however, this requires an interinstitutional dialogue taking into account environmental, social and economic aspects.
in writing − this is a proposal for a parliament legislative resolution on the council's position at the legislative first reading stage. the aim is to adopt a regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. the common market organisation is the first component of the common fisheries policy. it has been in place since 1970. the future common market organisation should of course contribute favourably to the dynamic development of this sector within the european union. there is a need to better meet europe's growing demand for fish and to address the issue of declining wild fish stocks.
in writing − if you have the proposal aims to address the fundamental problems of this fishery, namely the high vulnerability of deep-sea fish stocks and the lack of data on these stocks, which make it impossible to assess responsibly the current state of size and fishing mortality. this fish stock has different biological characteristics which make it a particularly vulnerable group in the context of overfishing and unsustainable practices. another problem is that deep-sea fishing has expanded to a large extent before sufficient information on the state of stocks, the level of discards and unwanted catches and the impact on the marine ecosystem has been made available. until 2003, this type of fishing was largely unregulated within the european union. therefore, it is very important to correctly determine the conditions, as a specific approach in this area is necessary and to avoid further adverse impacts on the underwater ecosystem.
in writing − the draft decision submitted by the european commission aims to strengthen the european union's capacity to prevent and respond adequately to disasters, both within and outside the union. it is very important to take into account the fact that the direct responsibility for civil defence lies with the individual member states which have the main competences. the proposed new mechanism is therefore only intended to complement and to coordinate and support national actions in a certain way. effective prevention and adequate response, i.e. better management of disasters, both natural and man-made, clearly requires an integrated and global approach.
in writing − the financial crisis has highlighted the need for responsible lending and borrowing, which is unquestionable. the european union mortgage markets are highly fragmented. learning from the crisis is one of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the g20 plan talks about the need for a stable internal market for mortgage lending. however, in this area, good consumer information and protection must be an absolute priority, since the vast majority of consumers are investing their lives. i also consider it very important to ensure compliance with the legislation already in place and to strictly respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing − if you have the purpose of this commission proposal is to align legislation, namely council regulation (eec) no 3491/90 of 26 november 1990 on the import of rice originating in bangladesh, with the system in force since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, in the context of delegated and implementing acts. the commission proposes to repeal regulation (eec) no 3491/90 and replace it with a new regulation. it should be borne in mind that the regulation must also be consistent with the objectives of the european union's development cooperation policy, with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
in writing − if you have the purpose of the report is to clarify the legislative procedures relating to the auction schedule provided for in directive 87/2003/ec. it should be noted that the emissions trading system is an important tool for reducing industrial emissions in the european union. since 2008, when the second trading period started, emissions have fallen by more than 10%. however, according to the commission's 2012 state of the european carbon market report, the second-stage emission reductions contributed to the economic downturn and the weakening of economic activity as well as production. the supply of credit is very much outstripping demand and the price of carbon has fallen significantly. the system therefore has serious shortcomings.
in writing − if you have reports from the joint research centre of the european commission have shown that there is a market for recycled paper used as a starting material in paper mills. there is also a demand for this product. the collection paper should therefore be sufficiently clean and comply with the relevant standards and specifications. it would therefore appear to be useful to develop specific criteria in relation to the paper recycling market, which would allow for the precise determination of when waste-to-paper is no longer waste. this should contribute to ensuring a high level of environmental protection, which is our priority.
written − roma women have a particularly difficult position. not only do they face racist attacks on a daily basis because of their membership of the roma minority, but they are also victims of gender discrimination on a daily basis. the reality in europe is that roma women have limited access to education, employment, decision-making, and basic health and social services. on this basis, roma women are at much higher risk of poverty than roma men. moreover, the situation is aggravated by the continuing economic and social crisis. roma women are an extremely vulnerable group of the european population and need our help to integrate properly into society.
in writing. − roma communities are currently in a vicious circle of poverty and social exclusion. according to statistics, more than 90% of roma live in extreme poverty. despite numerous efforts by the european institutions and national governments over the last decade to change their predicament, the living conditions of this community are more than drastic. the situation of roma women is even worse, because a society dominated by patriarchal and sexist traditions does not allow women to freely decide on the fundamental issues of their lives. our task is not to criticize the lifestyle of the roma community, but to propose possible solutions to the unsustainable situation of roma women. one of the options proposed by ms járóka is to allocate sufficient funds to member states' national roma integration strategies and to develop national action plans to address specific roma women's problems. but our ambitions must be directed primarily at ensuring the equal status of roma women in society. every woman has the right to access health care, education and employment. let's put an end to violence against women and prostitution, which is unfortunately still a reality in roma communities. i believe that also by supporting special programmes targeting roma youth, we can ensure that every girl goes to school and receives an adequate education, which is a prerequisite for a successful start in her personal and professional life.
in writing − if you have more than 6 million roma currently live in the eu, and the number is estimated at between 10 and 12 million across europe. slovakia is one of the countries with the highest roma population in europe and, according to my knowledge, there are currently more than 350 000 roma living in slovakia, which makes up 6.5% of the total population of the country. the largest concentration of ethnic roma is in eastern slovakia (more than 60% of the total number), with the largest share in košice (31%) and prešov (29,3%), where i come from. as my visits during the election period have led to many visits to roma settlements and families, i can say with confidence that i know the situation of the roma ethnic group very well and i do not care about how they live, how they educate themselves, what their employment and health care are. i voted in favour of this current report because i believe it contains many proposals and systemic measures which could lead the eu as a whole to make the first positive steps towards ensuring equality in civil rights and equal access to health services, education, employment and housing. i am convinced that through sensible policies at eu member state level we will achieve better economic and social integration of the largest minority in the eu the roma.
in writing − more than 50% of south sudan's population lives below the poverty line. it's one of the poorest countries in the world. the majority of the population, 80 percent, is illiterate. political tensions remain high in the country. the lack of security is causing serious humanitarian problems. the country suffers from a lack of basic public services. the establishment of the rule of law is a key element in stabilising the situation. the importance of the european union's assistance in this regard is undeniable. it is of the utmost importance that the competent authorities protect the civilian population and respect the fundamental rights of their citizens. it is essential to support the new south sudan in the establishment of democratic institutions as well as in the peace process with sudan.
in writing − the automotive industry in the european union is going through a period of serious crisis. however, it has a significant role to play in the context of the economy and employment. it represents some 12 million jobs and 4% of the union's gdp, a quarter of global output and trade surpluses worth €90 billion. the main cause of the crisis in the european automotive industry is the decline in the purchasing power of eu households. to succeed in reviving the european automotive industry, we need an effective programme of reforms and policy mechanisms. however, any such activity requires a thorough social impact assessment.
in writing − i consider the automotive industry to be one of the most important industrial sectors in the eu and also as a driving force for the development of the slovak economy, where i come from. i voted in favour of this current report because i think that the cars 2020 action plan can be a good signal to tackle such serious obstacles as falling demand on the european market, overcapacity and emissions and other regulatory measures. although the production and sale of cars within the european market has been alarming since the beginning of the crisis, i would like to point out that slovakia, with its 74 000 employees, is one of the most important centres of the world's automotive industry, which produces the highest number of passenger cars per capita in the world (171 cars per 1 000 inhabitants). i just want to give you one more piece of information to illustrate. the commission notes that the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. these are all quite positive numbers, but if we want to compete successfully with manufacturers like china or india, we need to increase investment in research, innovation, upgrading education and training.
today is a glorious day in the european parliament, which took place with the vote on the estel report on so-called sexual and reproductive rights and health. we in the european parliament, who defend marriage between a man and a woman, the right of parents to choose the upbringing and education of their children, and who oppose the imposition of gender ideology in health care, have today defeated, rejected the leftist ideology of the socialists. today, common sense, human values and justice have won. the joint motion of the european people's party, the christian democrats and the conservative party that the area of education, upbringing, children's rights, parental rights and health laws remain the exclusive competence of the member states was voted down. and this, ladies and gentlemen, is very good news for decent people.
in writing − data from the member states indicate that the level of sexual and reproductive health of women in the european union is highly uneven. sexual and reproductive health ensures the exercise of sexual and reproductive rights. however, the current social and economic problems associated with the ongoing crisis threaten to jeopardise their respect. in addition, health facilities are often privatised, which has a negative impact on access to health services. i believe it is very important that the citizens of the european union are allowed to freely decide on matters of their sexual and reproductive life. however, if they are to be truly free to decide, they need sufficient information, which should be sensitive and appropriate to their age and overall situation.
in writing − voluntary work is any form of unpaid work carried out by an individual on the basis of his or her own free will. it is a manifestation of solidarity, social cohesion and mutual assistance and has a direct impact on society. moreover, engaging in volunteering activities can bring significant learning and has a positive impact on the acquisition of skills in the labour market. this work is increasingly being disseminated among young and older people, which has a positive impact on intergenerational dialogue, active ageing and the involvement of citizens in society at all stages of life. it is thus an active way of developing civil society, which also contributes to the development of intercultural dialogue and thus effectively combats prejudice and racism. therefore, it is very important to try to create favourable conditions for volunteering.
in writing. − volunteering is an important aspect of active civic engagement and democracy, as well as personal development. this is manifested in any form of unpaid work where the work is done by the person's free will. volunteering promotes solidarity between generations and contributes to active ageing and lifelong civic engagement, thereby facilitating social inclusion. i agree that the commission should establish a single point of contact in the form of a service responsible for the policy on volunteering and for the coordination between the commission departments and the various institutions in this field. the commission should continue to liaise with the successor of the european year of volunteering 2011 alliance, the european voluntary federation and other voluntary organisations, and should also take due account of the recommendations of the european voluntary service policy agenda as a basis for the action plan for the future. it should be made easier for ngos active in voluntary work to receive european support, in particular under the esf, at national and european level. it would also be useful for volunteering time to be recognised by the beneficiary as co-financing in kind for all european grants. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing − volunteering helps in many areas where positive change is only brought about by the persistent efforts of ordinary people doing extraordinary things. i believe that volunteering and its contribution to society must be properly promoted and that good deeds must also be socially rewarded. member states and the union should therefore create a favourable legislative and social environment for the development of this altruistic area. large reserves are emerging in the area of corporate volunteering, which should be cultivated more, including in the form of public incentives to act for a good cause. however, young people should also be trained to engage in volunteering from an early age, even though volunteering is for all ages and social groups. in addition to feeling good, many gain many useful skills, experiences and contacts that can later be useful in finding employment.
in writing − despite the positive impact of the european year of volunteering 2011 on the world of volunteering, there are still clear problems with volunteering in europe. i believe that volunteering is an important aspect of active citizenship and democracy, but its added value for society and for economic and social cohesion is still underestimated. it is therefore important that the skills acquired during volunteering are generally recognised by employers in the labour market. if we want to combat these problems, we should support and promote initiatives that promote volunteer activities. but what still strikes me is that in many advanced democracies, there is still a societal undervaluation of volunteering. in several member states, voluntary activities are still held in low esteem despite their contribution to society. in practice, however, we are still struggling with the fact that the public does not know what to think of volunteering and volunteering. therefore, despite the positive impact of the erd 2011, i believe that there is still a lack of concrete measures to develop volunteering on a european scale. i see volunteering as a pro-social behaviour, and promoting and supporting it has a number of positive effects. our role is to support and improve the legislative conditions for volunteering activities, raise awareness of volunteering and promote cross-border cooperation between public and non-governmental organisations.
mr president, i do not agree with our colleague, mr severin, that the eu was defeated in vilnius. the eu is powerful enough to bring the eastern partnership and our eastern partners closer and at the same time to stop russia using heavy-handed tactics of pressure and bribery. all it needs is a higher degree of geopolitical imagination to project its power more efficiently, as commissioner füle has already indicated. the protests in ukraine are a truly historic event and not just for ukraine. when was the last time one million people marched through the streets of a european capital demanding more eu integration? it is also a moment of truth for our policy in the eastern neighbourhood and, i would dare to say, the biggest test yet of the eu’s performance as a geopolitical player capable of defending its interests and values in the immediate neighbourhood. there is no question as to our priorities in ukraine: to prevent further violence and anarchy, to support a national dialogue leading to a political solution and to bring ukraine back on track towards signature of the association agreement.
mr president, the state of the eastern partnership project after the summit in vilnius and the present serious developments in ukraine are the source of profound concern for the european parliament. we deeply regret president yanukovych’s withdrawal from signing the agreement with the eu, despite the unquestioned will on the eu side to continue with the association process. the european parliament fully supports ukraine’s european aspirations. the democratic opposition has become its voice and its true representative. the ukrainian choice for europe is clear. the current authorities have lost all credibility by taking violent and unacceptable decisions against this choice. we call for all practical steps to support ukraine’s european aspirations, including imposing sanctions if the violence against ukrainian society does not stop.
in writing. the outcome of the vilnius summit is not what we expected. ukraine, with its 48 million inhabitants, belongs to a common europe. the people on the streets of the capital of ukraine, as well as other cities, are also making this clear. but the question is why ukraine's representatives did not sign the association agreement in the end, when the eu-ukraine partnership and cooperation agreement has taken a substantial step towards closer ties with the eu since it was signed in 1998. i personally think that the pressure on ukraine to pass a law that doesn't exist anywhere else was unfair and one-sided. ukraine was and is in an unenviable situation. on the one hand, there is the enormous drive to integrate into the eu, on the other hand, there are russia's tempting terms for billions of dollars worth of energy, aerospace and space projects if it does not join the eu, up to the threat of immediate tightening of customs rules if ukraine joins the eu. the eu's sensitive and prudent stance is therefore needed more than ever. i am convinced that ukraine will decide very soon on its future in a common europe.
rapporteur. − madam president, since 2011 we have been discussing the new approach to our neighbourhood policy. today we have a chance to discuss one more element of this approach: the new neighbourhood instrument which will from 2014 provide increased support to 16 partner countries to the east and south of the eu borders. through this instrument the eu can rise to the current challenges and become the real force in supporting reforms in our neighbourhood. support for reforms related to deep and sustainable democracy and creating closer links with the societies of partner countries are crucial for developing our partnership, and now they have become elements or central parts of the instrument. the partnership with our neighbours should be mutually beneficial. we need to focus on support for good governance, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. supporting integration into the union internal market, economic development and job creation in partner countries benefits the eu as well. similarly, managed movement of people could bring about positive effects for the entire neighbourhood, thus facilitating the mobility of students, workers and tourists. active engagement between the eu and its neighbours in areas such as education, environment and research and innovation can also do much to support our shared objectives. we have prepared quite comprehensive texts of the regulation. the framework of the new instrument lies in a more tailor-made differentiated and intensive-based approach to the partner countries, which means that our partnership must be based on mutual accountability and shared commitment to the universal values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. our relations with each neighbourhood country will be more differentiated. each country should have a chance to develop its relations with the eu at its own pace. we need to take into consideration the aspirations, capacities and ambitions of particular countries but also their efforts in implementing the agreed reforms. we can offer more support to the countries which have decided to progress in the reforms. thus increased support from the union will be available to the countries in line with the principle of ‘more for more’. the basic condition for such support will be progress in building and consolidating democracy. clearly the more a country progresses in this field, the more support will be available from the eu. the european parliament has always played a constructive role in the eu neighbourhood policy: encouraging progress in democratisation processes and actively supporting the values of human rights and the ambitions of people to live in free and peaceful societies. therefore i am glad that our voice will be also heard in building the policy framework of this regulation. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleague shadow rapporteurs for their support during the preparation and negotiation of this regulation. the negotiations were tough; but all is well that ends well. i would like to commend highly the positive and constructive approach which was shown by the representatives of the commission and also thank the council representatives for their business-like approach.
rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this discussion. i shall make only two short remarks. the discussion showed again that we are even more aware these days that our neighbourhoods south and east are subject to a fast changing reality. while the wave of revolutions in the arab world exposed the weakness in some of the paradigms in our neighbourhood policy, the current situation on our eastern borders shows once again the necessity of following a clear policy line supporting values of democracy and human rights, and being consistent on that. my other remark. i did not mention it properly in my introductory statements so i want to draw attention to it again: this concerns civil society. we have seen that civil society plays a crucial role in promoting democracy, reforms and in holding governments responsible. this instrument, the european neighbourhood instrument, will support precisely this role of civil society. moreover, when governments are targeted by eu sanctions or other policy measures, we make sure that the eu upholds and strengthens further its support to civil society through this very instrument.
madam president, in today’s discussion, a week before the european council, i would like to support the upholding of the european commission’s recommendation to grant candidate country status to albania without undue delay. albania is on the european track and has only been there for a short time. the general political climate is improving thanks to the work of all major political players and i think it gives good prospects for the future. yes, it needs to be stressed that the progress achieved so far needs further consolidation and implementation. this is the time when the adoption of the remaining reforms should be intensified. once again, i would like to give my support to the resolution and congratulate the rapporteur. i hope that my message will also be shared by the council later this month.
rapporteur. − madam president, let me welcome the representative of the council and also especially the euʼs special representative for human rights, mr stavros lambrinidis. i am glad that our discussion is taking place today on 10 december in remembrance of the international day of human rights. this year we also mark the 20th anniversary of the 1993 world conference on human rights in vienna, which led to confirmation of the universality of all human rights. today’s report highlights the interconnection between the universality of human rights and democracy-building. let me outline the three major themes to which i paid considerable attention in this report: the eu policy framework on human rights, the issues of human rights in transition processes, and the euʼs support for human rights worldwide. the eu policy framework on human rights needs to become the backbone of our actions in this field. a year ago the eu adopted its strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy, and appointed our first special representative for human rights. this was a right step forward by which we have opened doors for mainstreaming human rights policies in the euʼs external relations. on this occasion i would like to welcome the active approach of the new special representative who has taken over the responsibilities of coordinating and promoting the euʼs human rights policies. i would encourage him to continue in these activities and keep in close contact with this parliament, which has been the case so far. building a rights-respecting democracy in which human rights are adequately protected is not an easy task. the processes of transitions are often exhausting and lengthy; the ideals are confronted with uncertainties and unleashed power can strike the most vulnerable parts of the population. as someone who has experienced such processes and saw its risks, i dedicated a part of the report to these problems. the eu has the potential and the responsibility to support these processes. we need to pay more attention to the problems and challenges of the countries overthrowing authoritarian regimes, countries where democracy processes are still fragile; but also to those countries trapped in transition for a long time where the processes stopped without any clear prospects of further changes. justice, rule of law, building of democratic institutions, reconciliation and addressing the human rights abuses: these are only a few of the problems on the road. even in the countries aspiring to membership of the european union questions on the rights of minorities, civil liberties and fundamental freedoms remain open; specific challenges for the protection of human rights post-transition in post-conflict contexts. the report deals therefore with questions of transitional justice, accountability for past abuses and fighting impunity, which needs to remain an integral part of the process. in conclusion, the eu needs to remain determined in promoting and protecting the universality of human rights, be it through our own instruments, though the un human rights system or through support to other international organisations such as the international criminal court. i would like to thank all the colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and others who participated in preparing this report. their contribution was very important for me and i appreciate it.
rapporteur. − mr president, this has been a very good debate and i will only make a couple of remarks. i will start with mr lambrinidis. an overwhelming majority of the speakers addressed you or mentioned your name, and i am sure that i am expressing the wish and desire of all of us present in this room when i say that you should be given the floor to address us. but, as minister leškevičius said, the existing rules do not allow this. i heard this from a very good source. rules are rules, but if the rules are not contributing positively, i think it is worth thinking about changing them. but i am glad that you were present here. your aura and the positive energy which you radiate nevertheless made a contribution to our debate. in a way it is unfair to you, stavros. you have been sitting here all the time listening very attentively to what we all have to say, you cannot say anything yourself, and afterwards you will have to deliver what we have discussed and what we have agreed upon here. i think this is unfair, and next time i am sure it would be only fair to give you the floor and a full opportunity to participate in our discussion. concerning the contributions made by members, i would like to thank those who expressed their support for the report. i really do appreciate that. for those who criticised it and said that the report is unbalanced or not objective, what can i say? in this world we do not live in a vacuum but in a political reality. given the complex character of the issue of human rights, i do not know whether the most capable magician could reconcile all the political positions or standpoints which we all have. i did not expect my report to satisfy everybody, because that is simply not possible. i have tried to do as well as possible, even when accepting or rejecting the amendments, even those from gue/ngl members, i have taken several additions from them because i really think that to have the majority of this house behind this report is very important. another thing i would like to mention is that next year the new action plan will be adopted and will start functioning from 2015. parliament should use this opportunity because it will be consulted. we should take it as a new opportunity to strengthen our role in the whole human rights agenda. i would like to remain friends with vice-president protasiewicz so i will finish my intervention now.
on behalf of the ppe group. the european globalisation adjustment fund can clearly provide effective support, particularly in the event of mass redundancies. if we are honest with ourselves, we have had cases where we have financed retraining for the benefit of new investors from third countries, but also cases where 70% of the aid was paid as unemployment benefit - obviously not to the member state - so that the european added value was often not really reflected. it is also a known fact that some member states have never applied for aid from this fund, even though they fulfilled the conditions for being eligible, because access is too complicated, too bureaucratic. we hope that, taking lessons from experience, the regulation will make the fund more efficient. it is pleasing to note that the grant payments may not exceed 35% of the total cost of the personalised service package. unfortunately, no better compromise was reached on the co-financing rate. the council insisted on a uniform 60% rate, and parliament's proposal would have taken greater account of the specific situation of the region and adjusted the co-financing rate accordingly. a new element of the regulation is to address youth unemployment through the use of the fund's resources. it is hoped that it will be an effective tool in the fight against youth unemployment. finally, i would like to thank marian harkin for her very excellent and effective cooperation.
the fight against tax evasion and fraud is not only a matter of state revenue but also a matter of justice. in these difficult times, decent, honest taxpayers must bear the cost of the losses caused by speculators who parasitize and profit from loopholes in the tax code. in the european union, we lose about one billion euros a year in this way. so it is our duty to do everything in our power to eliminate this robbing of decent people. the extension of the structure of information to be exchanged automatically between member states from 2015 onwards to include additional categories of income and assets, namely dividends, capital gains, other financial income and account balances, which are not yet defined, is, in the european commission's view, intended to help reduce the space used for the untaxed transfer of profits. that is why the member states also support the proposed extension of such automatic exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states of the union and, ladies and gentlemen, they expect the same attitude from us.
the main topics of the forthcoming summit include economic and monetary union and economic and monetary policy. it is essential to continuously deepen the economic and monetary union, which requires not only more intensive and sustainable economic growth but also, and above all, employment and social cohesion. our top priority must therefore be to promote employment and social security. ladies and gentlemen, we need systemic measures and not just short-term solutions. these ultimately only have a negative impact on the employment of people already hard hit by the crisis. we must therefore invest in a targeted way and strengthen the financing of the economy, adopt pro-growth measures and strengthen social investment; we must also establish an effective social security system. the growing social unrest resulting from ineffective and ineffective measures must be prevented. eu citizens deserve a high level of social protection... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. − madam president, the amendment i am presenting reads as follows: ‘recalls its resolutions of 25 november 2010 on the situation in western sahara, of 22 october 2013 on the situation of human rights in the sahel region, and calls for a guarantee of human rights for the saharawi people and stresses the need to address these rights in western sahara and in the tindouf camps, including freedom of association, freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate, to be respected; demands the release of all sahrawi political prisoners; demands the opening of the territory to independent observers, ngos and the media; supports a fair and mutually acceptable political solution on western sahara, in accordance with the relevant united nations resolutions, including those allowing self-determination;’. that is the amendment, and i would ask for the house’s kind support.
in writing, the counterfeiting of the euro has both economic and social consequences. this is a serious crime. moreover, there is a clear link between this practice and organised crime. counterfeiting of the euro is harmful to the european economy and threatens the stability of the currency, thus endangering the financial interests of the european union. the european union must therefore combat this negative phenomenon. the pericles 2020 exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is an excellent helper in this regard, including in the dissemination of best practices. but we must ensure that the money spent is actually used effectively.
in writing − if we are to implement our policies responsibly at european level, we need high-quality and reliable statistical information on the situation in the union and its components. high-quality empirical data and statistics are essential to measure progress and in the process of evaluating the effectiveness of our policies and programmes, in particular in achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the european statistical programme provides the legislative framework for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics for the period 2013 to 2017. the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 99/2013 on the european statistical programme 2013 to 2017 therefore needs to be given due consideration.
in writing eurostat data show that there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the european union, of which 89% are women and half are migrants. domestic work is a kind of invisible form of work, and the union's citizens who do it are the least protected. this type of work is very often exploited by workers who often work without a contract, without overtime pay, without entitlement to holidays or paid public holidays. moreover, this form of work leads to a certain isolation and people who do it are not sufficiently informed about their rights. in the present high unemployment rate, this phenomenon is all the more dangerous because people are forced to accept even obvious disadvantages in order to survive. increased protection of domestic workers is therefore necessary.
in writing − given that 2.6 million people are currently working in the eu and that domestic work is one of the least protected and invisible forms of work, i supported the motion for a resolution calling on member states to ratify the international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers. household work must be subject to normal working hours, overtime pay, daily and weekly rest periods, paid annual leave and, above all, social and health insurance. domestic workers must have a healthy and safe working environment. in many countries, domestic workers are employed without contractual conditions, and children are exploited to work in the home. it is therefore essential that the member states ratify the ilo convention as soon as possible.
in writing - mr president, i am very pleased that the council and parliament have reached agreement on decent working conditions for domestic workers. this is a significant step towards valuing the unpaid work of women and mothers in caring for the home, children and family members. the next step should be to eliminate discrimination against these women. under the convention, a domestic worker is entitled to 24 hours of uninterrupted rest and a remuneration of at least the minimum wage. this is more than the minimum maternity or parental allowance in slovakia, for example. but the work is comparable, only the rest is less. i therefore call on the council and the commission to eliminate this inequality and thus end discrimination against mothers and families caring for young children. thank you. thank you.
written − the neighbourhood policy is one of the most important union policies. maintaining and deepening good relations between the european union and third countries is of paramount importance. armenia has been an active participant in the european union's neighbourhood policy since 2004. the union's partnership and cooperation agreement with armenia has been in force since 1999. the republic of armenia expressed its request to participate in the union's programmes as well as in its agencies in april 2012. it is a good opportunity to strengthen mutual contacts, whether cultural, educational, technical, scientific or environmental. moreover, it can contribute to improving people-to-people contacts, political relations and sectoral cooperation.
in writing − the territorial community of saint barthélemy has ceased to be an outermost region of the union by virtue of european council decision 2010/718/eu and has acquired the status of an overseas country and territory as from 1 january 2012. the european council decision in question provides that the french republic has undertaken to conclude the agreements necessary to safeguard the union's interests in this change. in order to speed up the procedure, the council authorised the european commission by decision to agree the terms of these agreements. this authorisation therefore concerns an agreement between the french republic, representing the community of saint barthélemy, of the one part, and the european union, of the other part, providing for the application of union legislation on the taxation of savings and administrative cooperation in the field of taxation in this territory.
in writing − spain has requested the re-introduction of the tax exemptions or tax restrictions to be applied to the list of products produced locally in the canary islands. these derogations were granted to it by council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002. in 2010, spain requested an extension of the period of application of the decision by two years in order to bring its expiry date into line with the expiry date of the guidelines on national regional aid for the years 2007 to 2013. council decision 895/2011 therefore extended the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec until 31 december 2013. spain has now requested a second renewal of these measures. as the new regional aid guidelines for the period 2014 to 2020 will enter into force on 1 july 2014, the commission considers it justified to extend the application of decision 2002/546/ec ec as amended by decision 895/2011/eu by six months in order to ensure that the expiry date coincides with the date of entry into force of the guidelines.
in writing − the european union's development aid should be more coordinated. if we focused our aid on fewer countries and fewer activities, we could reduce transaction costs and save up to 800 million euros a year. better coordination of country allocations would ensure annual savings of up to €8.4 billion. existing mechanisms should therefore be thoroughly reviewed and efforts made to improve coordination across the union. this will help us achieve better results and better cost-effectiveness in development aid. however, an effective coordination mechanism is necessary to achieve these objectives.
in writing − if you have at its meeting on 7 november 2013, the european parliament's committee on budgetary control heard mr alex brenninkmeijer, the council's candidate for appointment as a member of the court of auditors, and concluded that mr alex brenninkmeijer fulfils all the requirements for appointment as a member of the court of auditors, in particular in accordance with article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. after due consideration, it is clear that mr. alex brenninkmeijer is a suitable candidate.
in writing − having considered all the relevant facts and having heard in detail mr henri grethen, the council's candidate for appointment as a member of the court of auditors, at a meeting of the european parliament's committee on budgetary control, it can be concluded that mr henri grethen fulfils all the conditions for the performance of his duties, in particular in accordance with article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − at its meeting on 7 november 2013, the committee on budgetary control heard the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors. it assessed his qualifications and endorsed the council's proposal to appoint mr nikolaos milionis, a greek, as a member of the court of auditors. the president of the european parliament should forward this decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and to the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. − at its meeting on 7 november 2013, the committee on budgetary control heard the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors. it assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate and subsequently agreed to the appointment of ms daniele lamarque of france as a member of the court of auditors. in the light of the above, it is desirable that the president of the european parliament forward that decision to the council and, for the information of the court of auditors, to the other institutions of the european union and to the audit authorities of the member states.
written − article 26 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1024/2013 provides that the appointment of the chair of the supervisory board of the european central bank (ecb) must be in accordance with that regulation and in accordance with the principles of respect for gender balance, taking into account experience and professional qualifications. by letter dated 22 november 2013, the ecb submitted to the european parliament a proposal for the appointment of ms daniela noua as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb for a five-year term. the ep committee on economic and monetary affairs, after hearing the nominee, agreed to the ecb's proposal to appoint daniele nouy as chair of the supervisory board of the ecb. the president of parliament shall then forward this decision not only to the ecb but also to the council and to the governments of the member states.
in writing − if you have it is desirable that the european union adopt a comprehensive set of instruments covering the full range of policies relating to external action. these are in particular the development cooperation financing instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights, the european neighbourhood instrument, the stability instrument, the nuclear security cooperation instrument, the pre-accession assistance instrument and the partnership instrument. these instruments generally ensure that the actions to be financed under them are subject to multiannual indicative programming. the financial interests of the european union should be protected through appropriate measures throughout the expenditure cycle. in this context, it also appears justified to adopt additional measures to protect the financial interests of the union.
in writing − if you have crises and conflicts affect countries all over the world and threaten global security and stability. they are often linked to state instability and are exacerbated by poor governance and poverty. natural disasters, man-made disasters, drug trafficking, organised crime, terrorism, cybersecurity challenges and threats and related disruptions increase uncertainty, impede development, weaken the rule of law and contribute to instability. in this context, a comprehensive eu response to international crises, strengthening the eu's preparedness for crisis management, preventive action and interventions, is of particular importance. it is precisely the measures adopted under this regulation that can effectively complement and pursue the objectives pursued in the field of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing − the strategic review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) analyses and assesses the changes in the eu's relations with its neighbours and developments since the establishment of the enp. while the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is generally considered to be a successful instrument accompanying the eu's policy towards its neighbours, the enp political review and other assessments, lessons learned and public consultations have revealed a number of problems that will need to be addressed in the future by adapting the instrument to make the union's response even more effective. the union shall, through dialogue and cooperation with third countries, seek to promote, develop and consolidate the values of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principles of equality and the rule of law on which it is founded. since its inception, the esp has significantly strengthened relations with partner countries and has been a major asset for the union and its partners.
in writing − if you have over the past 50 years, through both integration and enlargement, the eu has grown from its original six members to its current 28. enlargements have arguably contributed to the greater prosperity of eu citizens and made europe stronger in the global economy. the institutional and legal frameworks and common eu policies have played a very important role in ensuring success. however, candidate countries are often unable to cope with all the efforts and costs required to meet the eu accession criteria on their own. technical and financial assistance is thus currently provided through the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). however, it expires at the end of 2013. the new instrument for pre-accession assistance should continue to focus on delivering on the enlargement policy, one of the eu's main external action priorities, and thus effectively help to promote stability, security and prosperity in europe.
in writing − if you have over the past decade, the european union has considerably strengthened its bilateral relations with a number of industrialised and other high-income countries and territories in various regions of the world, notably north america, east asia and australasia, but also south-east asia and the gulf region. at the same time, the union has deepened its cooperation and partnership with developing and transforming countries in asia, central asia, latin america and with iraq, iran, yemen and south africa. it is in its interest to strengthen relations with partners playing an increasingly important role in international economy and trade, in international fora, including the group of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors (g20), in global governance and in addressing issues of global concern. building comprehensive partnerships on the international stage to promote a stable and inclusive international order, to look after shared global public goods, to defend the union's fundamental interests and to increase knowledge of the union in these countries is one of the eu's many priorities.
written − the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. promoting democracy and human rights in this context is an essential aspect of the eu's external action. to this end, the union is using a wide range of measures around the world, from political dialogue and diplomatic initiatives to financial and technical cooperation and assistance. it is the regulation on the european instrument for democracy and human rights that provides support to civil society and human rights institutions worldwide. in order to address the wide range of issues in the field in an effective, transparent and flexible manner, specific financial resources and a specific financing instrument that can continue to operate independently are still needed.
in writing. − the union remains committed to helping developing countries. to achieve this objective, a regulation on a development cooperation instrument for the period 2007-2013 was established, the main and general objective of which is, in particular, to work towards poverty eradication. this regulation constitutes one of the instruments for providing direct assistance to the external policies of the european union and replaces the regulation establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation, which expires on the abovementioned date of 31 december 2013.
in writing. − the commission has recently repeatedly stressed the need to tackle effectively a number of problems which pose a serious threat to social cohesion and competitiveness. in this context, i consider it of particular importance to pay particular attention in the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 to one-off support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes brought about by the increasing globalisation of production and trade patterns. such specific support should be as hitherto - provided through the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), an instrument the use of which does not affect mff expenditure.
in writing, the commission has recently brought tax fraud and tax evasion to the forefront of attention, not only in the union but also in the world. for this reason, it is also of the utmost importance to take steps to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of tax collection. in this context, the automatic exchange of information is an important tool. at the same time, in order to combat tax fraud and aggressive tax planning effectively, it is appropriate to make efforts to extend the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation from the european union to the global level.
in writing − if you have at european level, carriers of radioactive materials are subject to transport legislation originating in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) as well as legislation deriving from the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community (euratom). given that transport is the only 'mobile' activity, and given its often crossborder nature, it can quite easily happen that a carrier has to follow procedures in several member states, which has complicated transport operations, especially with the differences in the systems of those states. in order to make the situation more transparent, the proposed regulation also introduces a european system for the registration of hauliers and, by doing so, replaces reporting systems with a single registration.
in writing − justice, the rule of law, accountability, the fight against impunity and fair and independent judicial proceedings are among the essential elements of the protection of human rights. in june 2012, the eu council adopted a strategic framework and action plan for human rights and democracy, committing the eu institutions to a number of policy objectives. also, in july 2012, the eu council appointed the first eu thematic special representative for human rights. following up on this, the eu's 2012 report on human rights and democracy in the world provides information on the eu's efforts to promote the integration of human rights, gender equality, democracy and good governance in development policies and instruments.
in writing − i welcome the report on human rights in the world in 2012. the european union's strategic relations with third countries must be based on respect for fundamental values, which primarily include human rights and the principles of democracy and the rule of law. i consider it unacceptable to apply double standards in foreign policy, which undermines not only human rights themselves but also the dignity of the european union as a whole. we need to apply a certain minimum standard in all international agreements with third countries, including trade agreements. but we will achieve real compliance with the systematic monitoring of human rights proposed several times and their evaluation with a view to drawing conclusions. in conclusion, i would once again call on all eu institutions to apply a clear, unified approach to respect for human rights in both internal and external policies.
in writing − competition policy aims to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and a level playing field, to protect consumers from anti-competitive practices and to guarantee the best prices. it is not about micromanaging, but about enforcing clear and fair rules within which market forces can operate effectively. however, even two decades after the creation of the single market, many consumers are still seriously affected by anti-competitive practices in different economic sectors. in many cases, the private and public sectors did not provide fully independent regulatory authorities capable of ensuring that markets continue to function properly in a fair and non-discriminatory manner. the identical situation applies to competition authorities.
written − competition policy contributes to the efficient functioning of the internal market and the protection of consumers living in the eu. the enforcement of clear and fair rules in the internal market clearly leads to a better use of available resources, the development of innovation, economic growth, lower prices for goods and services, but also to job creation. nevertheless, competition policy is often perceived negatively in terms of the imposition of high fines, which can lead to insolvency and subsequent job losses or bankruptcy for some firms. however, this is highly undesirable and should not be the consequence of the application of competition policy in times of economic crisis. on the contrary, the european commission and other antitrust authorities should focus more on promoting a healthy competition culture, as adequate awareness is still lacking in many companies.
in writing − if you have the year 2015 will see major changes in the dairy sector. from that period, the milk quotas will no longer apply. in order to secure the future of this sector, i consider it extremely important to promote rules that strengthen the bargaining power of producers. at the same time, it is well-founded to examine in detail the impact of the abolition of quotas and the impact of this act, in particular on remote regions and disadvantaged areas.
written − the european parliament's own-initiative report on milk production in mountain and less-favoured areas is timely given that the milk sector will undergo huge changes after the end of the quota system in 2015. the milk and milk products market will have to respond to market forces, which is likely to have a negative impact in particular on smaller producers in mountain areas. these are small and medium-sized family businesses whose owners are often essentially dependent on this source of income and livelihood. moreover, it is desirable to maintain the traditional milk production, which has many advantages, including the high quality of the products. as milk production is a major source of local or regional development in many regions, i consider it urgent to examine the impact of the expected measures on the regions concerned and to develop a strategy for a smooth transition of producers in these most vulnerable regions to the new system. for these reasons, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing last october, the commission published a communication aimed at guiding the union's approach to building resilience and reducing vulnerability in developing countries. the report focuses in particular on the poorest groups of the population where there is a high risk of exposure to danger. at the same time, it also focuses on countries often beset by crises. most damage from disasters and crises occurs mainly in the poorest and most unstable countries. in order to avoid such situations, where possible, it is important to focus on the root causes of risks and to seek to reduce risk factors.
written − women with disabilities are at the crossroads of various forms of discrimination, whether based on gender or disability. they face complications of unemployment, lack of access to education, or problems with marriage or motherhood. women with disabilities are likely to be more vulnerable when it comes to victims of violence, including domestic and sexual exploitation and abuse. in this context, i consider it important to pursue specific objectives in order to improve the quality of life of women with disabilities.
in writing − i am very pleased that it was the european parliament itself which initiated the report on women with disabilities, as this issue deserves special attention from legislators at european and national level. today, some 80 million people with disabilities live in the eu, more than half of them women and girls. i consider it unacceptable that in our modern society there should be barriers and stereotypes that prevent these people from fully enjoying their basic human rights and their human potential. in our policies, we as legislators must put emphasis on creating favourable conditions for the participation of people with disabilities in economic and social life. women, who unfortunately often suffer double discrimination in practice, continue to require special attention. i therefore call on the competent authorities of the member states to make active use of european funds in the new 2014-2020 programming period to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities, and in particular women, in active life.
in writing − the retail and wholesale sector is among the key sectors that can act as a driver in the transition to a more sustainable economy and consumption patterns. efficiency in this sector has an impact on competition, innovation, price trends and competitiveness. retailers are the ones who make a significant contribution to enabling consumers in the union to benefit from the benefits of the single market. however, obstacles to the creation of an efficient and competitive single retail market remain. micro-enterprises and smes make a significant contribution to the eu's added value and for this reason measures are needed to boost their productivity even further in order to achieve even more economic growth and jobs within the union.
i believe that the management of emu clearly lacks sufficient democratic legitimacy, as in many areas the institutional framework is literally circumvented. the founding treaties since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon have created considerable scope for strengthening democratic decision-making. however, these possibilities are seldom used and so there is no parliamentary control at all in many key economic and monetary areas. we must urgently correct this democratic deficit if we are not to contribute to the sharp rise in often justified euroscepticism across europe. the proper functioning of economic and monetary policy must provide legal certainty for all actors and take account of the social consequences of economic measures. i consider that fragmentation and the conclusion of intergovernmental agreements are highly undesirable at this stage of integration.
the complex and dynamic economic developments in europe, but also in the world, have required the european council to be more closely involved in shaping the european union's policy actions. although article 15 (1) of the treaty on european union defines the european council as merely the institution which gives the union the necessary impetus for development and sets the general direction and priorities, its actual involvement in determining the essential political and economic measures has become far more pronounced. it is therefore necessary to adapt the way in which the european council and the european parliament communicate in an appropriate form so that the activities of these institutions complement and enrich each other and avoid unnecessary misunderstandings or delays. the best solution today seems to be to conclude an interinstitutional agreement that would define and regulate more precisely the relations and the methods of cooperation between the two institutions. intense social and political developments not only in the union but also in the immediate vicinity require us to be able to respond to these diverse impulses in a prompt, correct and coordinated manner. well-formulated rules of cooperation can only help us to do so.
mr president, i might differ from some of my colleagues, but i believe the european commission has not undermined the european parliament by introducing this delegated act. by forcing a vote on a resolution that only complicates the act, my colleagues are slowing the process of introducing new trade preferences to around 2% of our imports. the committee members who are against the act are not in favour of all countries on the beneficial list being in a single piece of legislation, and they believe that the commission is not legally allowed to include all the countries in the single act. the commission is legally allowed to do so. the committee does not need to make a show of strength against legislation the commission is legally allowed to introduce. both the council and the commission are in favour of the delegated act, as it is a good piece of legislation. i see no reason to amend the act. any effort to amend the act only complicates a process that already has strong support. for us to go back and vote on separate delegated acts for each country on the list would hurt the political process. we in the european people’s party – at least most of us – are satisfied with the single delegated act and believe that the commission is respecting its mandate. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, you are the professor; you are the expert. i understand that you can see all of these nuances, but i have to tell you that in this case i agree with david martin because, if we jump and pick up on every little thing, we might never accomplish anything and there is too much at stake, too many benefits – not only for us but for some other countries, including improving their democracies. so certain things we might have to let go.
i would like to commend your initiative on green policy, particularly infrastructure, because industrial agglomerations are often supplemented by housing for workers, for people who work in these agglomerations, and these agglomerations are concrete jungles without any quality environment, and only with the funds of the european union will it be possible to revive and cultivate these housing areas so that they are able to provide children, but also families, with a quality environment. such a policy for the people of the european union, for those who work and who build this union, is very important, because so far we have only talked about industrial policy, about the policy of the various financial institutions, but we have said little about the problems of the people who live in this environment.
mr president of the european central bank, in your speech you stressed that in the fragmented environment of the euro area, where we use the single currency, it is difficult to define monetary policy in a way that is both suitable for the industrialized countries of northern europe and at the same time for a debt-laden country struggling with economic decline. your efforts to reorganize the national banks of the enlarged countries by exchanging european central bank funds for worthless securities are devaluing the ecb's portfolio and raising the legitimate question of how long such a practice will be sustainable without a systemic collapse. therefore, mr president, i think it would be good to focus progressively on supporting active entrepreneurs who produce real value and to focus less on the restructuring of the ever-growing debts in the budgets of some countries.
for the efd group the estimated €1 billion lost annually to the eu in tax evasion and fraud is a large enough sum to give serious consideration to measures to eliminate these losses. one of the first steps we should take is to simplify and make the union's tax system transparent so that the flow of money within and between member states, as well as in cooperation with third countries, is transparent and controllable at every stage. tax administrations must have effective technical means and effective legislative mechanisms to obtain the necessary overview of ongoing transactions within their remit and to be able to react immediately to attempts to evade tax obligations. in may this year, the president of the european commission, mr barroso, announced the commission's commitments to fight tax evasion and fraud. it is therefore, i think, appropriate to add to this general commitment objective, measurable parameters so that our public knows what effect we can expect from the measures being prepared.
in writing ladies and gentlemen, tax fraud is unacceptable. but only through relentless coordination at national, european and global levels can they be stopped. none of them are enough. in slovakia, we have literally launched the fight against tax fraud and it must be said that the first efforts have already produced results, which significantly contribute to reducing the public finances deficit. the 'lottery' project, which actually allows any consumer to check the tax integrity of retailers and service providers, is proving to be very successful. this project would deserve european attention. furthermore, the eu must not relax at the global level, especially in the g20 agenda. to push hard for all the decisions taken to be implemented and to prepare further steps and proposals by the ec to prevent tax fraud, evasion and what we call aggressive tax planning globally. the commission's mandate is essential here, because even the strongest nation states have no chance at the global level: the complicated 'coercion' of swiss banks to open up and the resistance of the swiss parliament are examples. yes, the fight is still ahead of us. but for the recovery of the world economy and for the deepening of justice, it is a necessity. thank you. thank you.
in writing − the number of pending cases before the general court, as one of the courts of the court of justice of the european union, is on a steady upward trend. the increasing workload and the growing agenda are no longer sustainable. this situation results in a denial of the right to a fair trial and thus a denial of article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights. it is therefore clear that the number of judges needs to be increased urgently, but the question of the selection criteria themselves is controversial. the rule of one judge per member state currently applies, making this a rather sensitive issue for all member states. in any event, the question of the professional and personal background of each candidate, which is not indisputably indicated by nationality, must be relevant.
in writing − if you have this is a legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 2006/112/ec and 2008/118/ec as regards the french outermost regions and in particular the island of mayotte. pursuant to decision 2012/419/eu of the european council amending the status of mayotte in relation to the european union, mayotte will have the status of an outermost region, pursuant to article 349 tfeu, instead of an overseas country and territory within the meaning of article 355 (2) tfeu, as from 1 january 2014. on the basis of that decision, mayotte is added to the list of outermost regions. the proposed directive thus aims to grant mayotte the same status as that long applied to other french outermost regions such as guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion, namely exclusion from the scope of the common system of value added tax, under secondary eu legislation.
in writing in the context of the change of status of mayotte, france has requested a deferral of the implementation of council directive 2010/18eu of 8 march 2010 implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded between businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and etuc and repealing directive 96/34/ec. in order to ensure that equal treatment is progressively achieved, particularly with regard to the issue of parental leave, and to prevent the economic development of mayotte from being destabilised, the commission proposes that the
in writing − if you have innovation is absolutely key in the green economy. in the context of the strategy for sustainable growth, from an environmental, economic and social point of view, which, together with the creation of sustainable jobs, is a prerequisite for social cohesion, eco-innovation is fundamental. the green economy in europe has an estimated annual turnover of €319 billion, representing 2.5% of eu gdp. the sector employs 3.4 million people. moreover, the global turnover in the green sector is expected to double to eur 3 100 billion by 2020. i think it would be a great shame not to use this huge potential. effective investment in this area will have environmental benefits as well as significant economic benefits.
written − following the adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 on implementing acts following the amendments provided for in the treaty of lisbon, the european commission was asked to adapt the rules on decision-making procedures in the field of trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. the commission therefore presented two proposals, omnibus i and omnibus ii, which are consolidated acts in the field of trade policy. they combine the trade-related underlying regulations into one instrument. this needs to be updated with the previous regulations. in this proposal, it therefore proposes the necessary amendments to the underlying texts, while also specifying the procedures to be applied. in particular, this concerns the choice between the advisory procedure and the examination procedure for implementing acts.
in writing − the rules on trade policy decision-making need to be adapted to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts, in the light of the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon and regulation (eu) no 182/2011 on implementing acts adopted in the wake of those changes. in order to achieve harmonisation, the commission therefore submitted two proposals, omnibus i and omnibus ii. in both cases, the basic trade regulations that need to be updated are thus combined into one legal instrument. the proposal therefore brings the necessary changes and updates to the basic legislation.
in writing − if you have everyday life in today's society without a checking account is extremely complicated. without a payment account, it is almost impossible for a union citizen to receive a salary or pay water, gas or electricity bills. he is deprived of the benefits of cashless transactions and this makes it very difficult for him to participate in social and economic life. however, many union residents face enormous difficulties in opening a payment account. the commission's proposal is therefore timely and should be adopted as soon as possible. every citizen of the european union has the right to access the standard transactions of everyday life, regardless of his or her financial situation, place of residence within the union, credit history or employment status. equally important for me, in the interest of the european consumer being as well informed as possible, is the transparency and clarity of bank charges and the possibility of switching from one account to another.
in writing − if you have the importance of marine and coastal areas and the maritime economy is significant for the european union. these sectors employ almost 88 million europeans, representing 40% of the union's gdp. of these, 5.4 million are employed in the marine and maritime sector. the gross value added of this sector is almost 500 billion. moreover, 90% of the european union's external trade is transported by sea. the demand for maritime space is therefore clear and is likely to continue in the future. our maritime economy is also of particular importance in view of the objectives we have set ourselves in the europe 2020 strategy. but we are using the sea in an uncoordinated way, and that has a variety of negative consequences. to use this space effectively, we need a clear strategy, taking into account all the economic, social and environmental factors involved.
in writing following constitutional amendments to mayotte, france has requested the european council to take a decision to change its status to an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in view of its relationship with the european union. the european council granted the request and, by decision 2012/419/eu, the new status of mayotte as an outermost region of the european union will enter into force on 1 january 2014. this entails the full application of union legislation. however, the immediate full application of union legislation is not possible and therefore certain transitional provisions are laid down.
written − the european capitals of culture project has gained wide recognition since its inception in 1985 and has transformed itself from an intergovernmental initiative into a european action. this award is a benefit in many ways. it enhances the international prestige of european cities, has a positive impact on sustainable development and tourism, stimulates competitiveness within the creative sectors and creates incentives to promote investment in culture and the creation of long-term cultural initiatives.
in writing − if you have with effect from 1 january 2014, the european council amended the status of mayotte in relation to the european union. mayotte thus ceases to be an overseas territory and becomes an outermost region within the meaning of the relevant article of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the review of the situation with regard to mayotte has shown the need to protect the sensitive biological situation of its waters. in certain respects, france needs additional time to comply with the union acquis in relation to mayotte. in this context, it also appears necessary to allow the modernisation of the mayotte fleet to allow fishing outside the lagoon, where resources are less fragile than in the lagoon. however, there is also a need to improve safety and working conditions.
written − regulation (eu) no 978/2012 lays down the modalities of the union's generalised system of preferences, which aims to improve access to the eu market for developing countries. this will be made possible by granting preferential treatment to their export products. the gsp is composed of a general measure and two specific measures, including a special incentive measure for sustainable development and good governance (sgf+), under which no duties are required from a beneficiary country for imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines. the gsp+ is intended to serve as a credible incentive for countries to commit to implementing the key international conventions considered crucial in the context of sustainable development.
i support efforts to integrate people living in extreme poverty and social exclusion. for the most part, they are not in a position to handle their situation on their own. roma problems are the problems of people who are on the margins of society and are trying to survive as they know how. they face discrimination from their fellow citizens, governmental authorities, and businesses. the creation of specific roma-focused strategies leads to a paradox, which is also reflected in the resolution. on the one hand, we want to monitor the observance of roma human and civil rights, on the other hand, we are afraid that the roma registry would deepen the prejudice against them. i therefore recommend that we instead seek to integrate strategies and policies to combat extreme poverty. it will also help us to get more support from the general public, especially taxpayers.
written − the european union stands for the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. it is well known that roma suffer discrimination within europe and that their socioeconomic and fundamental rights situation is often worse than that of the non-roma population. as far as poverty and social exclusion are concerned, they have reached a critical level in the roma population, limiting the life prospects of these families. in addition, negative attitudes of the non-roma population and open discrimination against the majority society contribute to the exclusion of roma. in this context, it is justified that the member states of the union take the necessary measures to ensure that roma are not discriminated against and that their human rights, as enshrined in the charter and the european convention on human rights, as well as in eu law, are respected and enforced.
in writing − all summit participants reaffirmed their commitment to the principles of international law and to fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. ukraine is a country of strategic importance to the eu and an indispensable partner in the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. however, ukraine has recently abandoned its planned association agreement with the european union and is strengthening relations with russia. this situation has arisen despite the union's will to continue the association process. however, deepening the mutual relations should be in the interest of both parties concerned.
in writing − albania has demonstrated progress in achieving the 12 key priorities of the 2010 commission opinion and the reform process can be considered to be progressing satisfactorily so far. the necessary measures have been taken in the area of jurisdiction or public administration. at the same time, i am convinced that the remaining challenges must also be addressed in an effective manner in order to make further progress towards european union membership. the accession process itself has become a sort of driving force for the continuation of the reforms in albania, and in this respect the support of the albanian population is also particularly high.
in writing, the european union institutions and the member states have made efforts to restore financial credibility and stability. this was done in particular by adopting and implementing structural reforms and adopting a new framework for the management of economic affairs. i believe it is important that this effort be completed by the creation of a genuine banking union. better coordination of economic policies is necessary and justified in order to strengthen competitiveness, sustainability and job creation within the member states of the union. i think one of the basic premises of such a policy is to make an effort to apply eu legislation thoroughly.
voting on this report was not easy for me and i ended up abstaining in the final vote. on the one hand, i support the project of a genuine economic and monetary union, because only then can we eliminate the systemic deficiencies created by the introduction of the euro. but the financial transaction tax is an increase in the tax burden and at the same time the first step towards harmonising tax rates, which i reject. i am against weakening the position of small member states in the council and against the creation of more union agencies. and in particular, i reject the possibility of adopting a deficit union budget and introducing additional own budgetary resources. if member states have reasonable doubts about the proper use of their appropriations to the union budget, the solution must not be to increase other resources but to improve management.
in writing. − the crisis has exposed the forced integration associated with the euro, and this development has added a new dimension to the debate on multilateral governance in the union. in this context, however, it is necessary to take into account that the discussion on multilateral governance does not overlap with the issue of multi-level governance, which concerns the balance of powers and the involvement of national, regional and local authorities. it is important to monitor social and employment policies in particular with due intensity and to assess their economic and social impact in a manner comparable to the provisions on the surveillance of national economic policies, in particular so that the european union's recommendations can be properly directed.
decision-making in the eu is certainly not one of the easiest, quite the contrary. most citizens in the member states still do not understand how the european law-making process works. they often overlook the role and responsibility of their governments in this process. i consider this to be the main problem. at the same time, i am not opposed to learning from the specific confusions and failures that have occurred in recent times and have complicated legislative work. the purpose of the resolution adopted is to improve the practical functioning of relations between the european parliament, the european commission and the council of the european union. i think these issues need to be addressed, which is why i supported the report.
in writing, the treaty of lisbon gave the european council the status of a european institution without changing its role. under the pressure of the crisis, its role has grown considerably, the number of extraordinary meetings has increased and issues normally discussed at council level have been transferred to the european council. this went far beyond the framework of a key provision of the treaty, which states that the european council has no legislative functions. in this context, and in order to strengthen the democratic character of the decision-making process, i consider it particularly justified to adopt appropriate measures of parliamentary scrutiny.
in writing − green infrastructure is a strategically planned network of natural and semi-natural areas with other environmental characteristics, which are designed and managed to provide a wide range of ecosystem services. includes green spaces (possibly blue if aquatic ecosystems) and other physical features in terrestrial (including coastal) and marine areas. on the mainland, green infrastructure is found in rural and urban areas. green infrastructure can be said to help understand the value of the benefits that nature provides to human society and to mobilise investment to maintain and enhance them. it assumes that the protection and enhancement of nature and natural processes, and the myriad benefits provided by nature to human society, are purposefully integrated into spatial planning and territorial development.
in writing − if you have in an environment of declining economic activity and volatile financial conditions resulting from the financial and sovereign debt crises, 2012 was another challenging year for the conduct of monetary policy. real economic activity declined during the period, mainly due to weak investment and private consumption. the annual inflation rate remained elevated in 2012, despite adverse macroeconomic conditions, although it declined during the year. the level of inflation has been substantially affected by strong increases in energy prices and increases in indirect taxes and administered prices in several euro area member states. as for interest rates, they hit an all-time low of 0.5 percent in may of that year.
in writing − if you have according to available information, eur 1 trillion is lost annually in the european union as a result of tax evasion and avoidance, without any restrictive measures being taken to respond to this. the amount lost in europe through tax evasion today exceeds the total amount that member states spend on healthcare, and also represents more than four times the amount spent on education within the member states of the european union. i am convinced of the need to promote social justice while seeking to tighten the regulatory framework so that there is no active system bypassing and that europe does not suffer the consequences of large-scale tax evasion or financial losses.
for the efd group the situation in the central african republic, where various armed groups have been fighting each other for a year and where criminal gangs have been terrorising the local population, is unsustainable. the national authorities are unable to guarantee the safety of the civilian population, and the deployment of the common units of the community of central african states has not helped to bring order to the country. therefore, the only appropriate way to protect public order and the safety of the local population today appears to be to implement the un security council resolution and to rapidly reinforce the international mission in the central african republic under the auspices of the african union. however, i am convinced that at the same time the country's humanitarian aid capacity must be strengthened so that the necessary food supplies for the local population, which has been impoverished by the fighting, can be made available while order is restored.
for the efd group the official admission by the director of the chinese organ donation committee at the madrid conference that more than 90% of transplanted organs come from executed prisoners indirectly confirmed that prisoners of conscience in this country have become involuntary victims of human organ trafficking. these people are being killed just to get organs fit for transplant for clients coming into china and into their hospitals from all over the world. the chinese government's announcement that it will phase out this practice by 2015 is a cynical admission of the incredibly cruel treatment of some groups in the country. i confess it is incomprehensible to me that a nation with such rich culture and civilization should ever have embarked on such a decadent approach to the human organism. i'm sure if the top officials of this country reflect on the ethical aspects of this action, they'll immediately understand that they have to stop. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card i have sources from colleagues who communicate with the falun gong group, and they are based on chinese sources that originate from this country.
