on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european public expects the institutions of the european union to help businesses in crisis. restructuring is the only way to survive. the rapporteur's initiative is in place and we support it, but we do not want to make the situation of the companies even more difficult. thank you to the reporter and the shadow reporters for your patient cooperation. we started from different starting points because we saw the problem differently. at first, we didn't even know if we needed the report. we have reached a sustainable compromise that should be acceptable to the majority. in alde we supported all legitimate demands for minimum standards of information, preparation and involvement of workers in the early restructuring debate, as well as all relevant recommendations to make the restructuring process as painless as possible. we reject any proposals that would place additional burdens on the companies. we also oppose all recommendations which we consider not to be the responsibility of companies but of local authorities, including those outside the european union's remit. the final document is now less extensive, mainly due to the long negotiations on successful compromise amendments. we understand the concerns of the rapporteur and the social democrats, but we insist that a directive is not necessary here. it would impose an additional burden on businesses. we want the commission to study the proposal in detail and to draw up a non-binding document with recommendations to help workers and businesses. our main message is the general recognition that restructuring is a natural process in any economy, including the european economy. we cannot avoid restructuring. we need to prepare for them and use them to re-launch companies whose business model has become obsolete. workers whose jobs have become redundant also need a new lease of life. cercas's proposals are seen by some as utopian. but in alde we want this report to produce valuable operational... (interruption)
i really appreciate the youth guarantee. i welcome it because without work young people cannot dare to start families, they cannot unleash their talents and they cannot unleash their creativity. therefore, the possibility of further training, especially in the field of, say, digitalisation, the possibility of an internship or even of employment after four months of unemployment is something that everyone would like, which is really an ideal model. that is why the european parliament has been warning, caring and focusing on young people for a long time. but there's also a lack of motivation, of a motivation system, because it's not necessarily going to work out well unless we also put in place this system where young people are part of the solution, not part of the problem.
the european solidarity fund is also urgently needed in the future. it needs more flexibility and more reactivity. the criteria should be simpler. we need to communicate more to europeans and to europeans about the positive effects of the fund. there's a slovenian proverb that says, "he who gives quickly, gives twice". it's important in natural disasters. my homeland was hit by severe flooding in early november 2012. the consequences of these are pronounced in infrastructure, pronounced in the countryside, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in hydroelectric power plants. many people were cut off from the world. at a time of the greatest economic and social crisis and the adoption of the most important reforms, floods have hit people even harder. the geographical location of slovenia is often another factor that contributes to the high flood levels. the estimated damage is well above the entry threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund. slovenia has asked for help, we're preparing a resolution, so i'm asking for your support.
i will speak about the report by lena kolarska-bobinskaya, which is very good, and i congratulate her sincerely on it. energy is very important because it affects the economy through prices, it creates jobs, and it also has the highest greenhouse gas emissions of any sector. our environmental standards are extremely high and require investment in sustainable technologies, which are of course more expensive. and only a strong economy and a country with a sound financial system can make such investments. it is therefore all the more important that cohesion policy ensures that all member states have the same opportunities to achieve the objectives of the common energy and environment policy. i particularly welcome the emphasis on energy efficiency projects, especially in the housing sector and in cross-border energy interconnection projects. i also think it is very good that we are asking the commission to draw up a strategy for improving energy efficiency for smaller projects and for smaller ... (speech was suspended) (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. if the translation was correct, but i will say it this way - in this financial perspective there was a strong emphasis on renewable energy sources and it seems to me that our direction is to give less attention to this in the next financial perspective and there is a greater emphasis on energy efficiency. i think that these projects should be given a high priority in the negotiations with the member states. the construction industry has a lot of supply in this area, and that was actually my message.
italy plans to build two gas terminals, which is opposed by both slovenia and the local market authorities. the italian minister for the environment recently reopened the environmental report for this project. the opposition to the construction of terminals is not only due to procedural and bureaucratic problems, but there are also strong environmental reasons against the construction of terminals. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the mercury deposits in the port of marsa constitute a market economy operator. from an energy point of view, the construction of terminals is not a priority, as two new gas pipelines from asia to central europe are planned. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain a profit before tax from the airport services agreement with the airline. that is why i call on the european commission to prevent this.
i have a question that's actually a continuation of one of the previous ones. i'm actually more interested in the teaming measure. it will establish a framework for cooperation between excellent research institutions and less developed european regions. i would like to hear more from the commission on how it intends to implement teaming. and the second question is when we can expect more precise provisions on this measure, especially from the point of view of which regions can participate and what combination of european funds will be required, namely the combination between the cohesion funds and the horizon 2020 programme.
when visiting municipalities, regions and local representatives in slovenia, i often hear comments about how important and too often neglected is their view of inclusion in eu funding programmes and how they want to simplify procedures. that's the question that always comes up. i therefore strongly support the report by my colleague, mr derek vaughan, which not only addresses this issue but also presents an overview and effective and efficient mechanisms for creating these synergies. synergies are of particular importance not only in the area of a coordinated approach by all levels of governance to european funds, but also between the different policies within the european union. i look forward to and look forward to the results that will be seen in the implementation of cohesion and regional policies over the next seven years, when we will give national, regional and local representatives the opportunity to draw on the resources of several different funds. this is news that i really welcome.
that's the kind of report we need. in may this year, earthquakes struck northern italy, and the european union also came to the rescue of the devastated area. a few months later, nature showed its power in a terrifying way in my country, slovenia. a large part of slovenia was affected by severe flooding, which caused enormous damage to agriculture, housing, the economy and transport infrastructure. there is no doubt that today the slovenians also believe in and expect european solidarity and european aid. the european solidarity fund is the main instrument for the european implementation of the principle of solidarity in the event of disasters and support for the improved mobilisation of this fund is clearly urgently needed over the next seven years. but there is more to be done, above all, what is in the european parliament's power, and that is to take action to reduce the bureaucratic and administrative obstacles that such a fund has when you apply for solidarity aid, because that is when the times are tough and any administrative obstacle is unnecessary.
there is no doubt that the fire in mali had reached a size that required action. we, europe, we, the west, either didn't know or didn't want to react. france has reacted, and i'm not going to be one of those who's going to be particularly grateful for that. i would like your performance today, mrs. ashton, to sound more like a politician, a leader, a leader, than a military commander. we are always surprised by the things that happen to us in the world. we just react over and over again, over and over again, we can't predict things, even though they were predictable. we have not been able to predict what the interventions and implosions of different countries -- we know what i'm talking about -- on the other side of the world will do, and this scenario will repeat itself over and over again until we have coherent policies, capable of prediction and capable of analysis.
a year ago, the commission responded appropriately to the alarming situation surrounding the power of credit rating agencies at the height of the european economic and financial crisis. at that time, it submitted a proposal in which it addressed the lack of competition in this area, the problem of conflicts of interest and, in particular, the excessive reliance on credit ratings in the case of sovereign debt instruments. but parliament's work in recent months has shown that much more can be done in this area than the commission had originally thought. a very important step in freeing member states from their dependence on rating agencies was taken by agreeing that sovereign debt ratings must be treated differently from corporate ratings and that they must be given clear criteria, a methodology and, in particular, a limited timeframe for the publication of unsolicited ratings of sovereign debt instruments. it is crucial that in the future credit rating agencies will no longer have the power to formulate explicit recommendations for the policies of individual governments and thus interfere with the political agenda, including the european political agenda. finally, i would like to welcome the courageous proposal by the rapporteur, mr leonardo domenici, to set up a european public credit agency, as i believe that europe needs an independent authority to assess the debts of the member states and that this task simply cannot and should not be left to the private sector alone.
we've lost a lot of jobs because of the over-indebtedness and the inability to repay loans. it is true that europe did not cause the crisis, but in this crisis europe is also a victim. two key questions are: how to tackle the excessive debt of the past today and how to put public finances on the right track. i believe that the answer also lies in greater supervision and transparency of the banks' operations and the governments' responsibility for structural reforms. supervision and transparency of banks' operations are the basis for the future. spending within our means in the area of public finances is the basis for the future, it is the basis for not burdening future generations, and it is the basis for not paying for bad and unclear decisions by citizens. the introduction of the golden fiscal rule and legislation to improve transparency over the operations of banks is facing strong opposition in many countries. i wonder if this opposition to these measures shows increased solidarity and at the same time forgets responsibility. there are big differences between the understanding of responsibility and solidarity. we can also understand countries that are less indebted. for this reason, the establishment of a new fund and the issuance of european bonds should have long-term sustainability guarantees. the replacement of debt with bonds without long-term sustainability guarantees is not admissible. if we hypothetically write off the debts of over-indebted countries today, jobs will not come back on their own. the future needs sustainable solutions for all european citizens.
the economic, financial and banking crisis that europe has been facing in recent years has undoubtedly had a strong negative impact on public finances in all member states. as a result, europe today faces a paralysis of socioeconomic development, even political stability in some member states. against the backdrop of negative prospects for a rapid improvement in economic conditions and alarming levels of unemployment and rising poverty levels, it is imperative that fiscal consolidation policies be adapted to the realities in the different member states. the impact of austerity measures needs to be balanced by measures to strengthen growth, economic development and social protection. fiscal discipline and austerity measures must be accompanied by solidarity at european level, and the issuing of common debt instruments must become a european reality. it is also important to put young people at the forefront of european solutions and to ensure that they are able to participate actively in the labour market, to create solutions and to co-create the policies of the future, as today's report shows. finally, given that we lose around €1 billion a year in europe to tax evasion and tax fraud, it is imperative that member states respond as quickly as possible to the improvement in national budget revenues by fighting tax evasion and tax fraud, which we will be discussing in the coming months.
in writing. − in today's vote i supported the resolution by ms beres on the youth guarantee, which was adopted with broad political support (546 for and 97 against). overall unemployment in the eu has risen to almost 11% for the first time in history. youth unemployment has risen to over 23 percent. the guarantee would help young europeans to find quality employment or otherwise help them to find their way out of a difficult situation. i have already mentioned some of the possibilities for tackling youth unemployment in my report to the ep on youth and mobility. among them was the youth guarantee. unfortunately, the european commission and the member states are shifting responsibility for the financing of the guarantee to each other. some argue that finding employment cannot be the job of governments. this is partly true, but the prevailing view is that the help of the authorities is necessary to solve this problem. i personally believe that the union should play a key role in financing the guarantee, in particular through the european social fund. in addition to the youth guarantee, it is of the utmost importance to further align european education systems with labour market needs. in particular, higher education in the eu is poorly adapted to the needs of the economy, with a wide range of negative social consequences, including long-term unemployment, social exclusion and financial losses estimated at eur 53 billion per year.
on behalf of the alde group. the iraqi federation is firmly oriented towards the future after the war and the fall of the dictatorship, although democracy is still fragile. the speech by the prime minister of ireland this morning has brought positive vibes, energy and responsibility to our thinking. that is how we must work with iraq, an important partner and a valuable ally in the middle east. the deep crisis and bloody war in syria have made iraq even more important for the region and the european union. president jalal talabani, currently undergoing treatment in germany, is a valuable pillar of stability and, among other things, a strong voice for the abolition of the death penalty. i wish him a speedy recovery. on the other hand, prime minister maliki has been concentrating too many levers of power in his own hands for too long, which is not a pillar of democracy. it needs to be said firmly and very loudly. the iraqi people still lack a 24-hour electricity supply, which is absurd for a major energy exporter that is rapidly increasing oil and gas extraction and is also an important stabilizer of oil prices, especially in light of the embargo on iranian oil. the european union must become more actively involved in reconstruction and development. baghdad is still a war zone for many, especially businessmen, so we need to make more use of the comparative advantages of a peaceful kurdistan, especially erbil, which is a temporary business hub for the entire federation. i strongly support the need to improve working conditions and staffing for the delegation of the european union in baghdad. at the same time, we urgently need a european union delegation in erbil, at least temporarily, because that is what many countries do, which are more economically present and more successful there. that is why we in alde are determined to continue our supplement.
on behalf of the s&d group. the current financial, economic and social crisis has clearly revealed the scale and seriousness of the consequences of corruption in the european union. corruption is often highlighted as one of the most serious obstacles to achieving greater efficiency in public administration, the internal market, higher investment, greater competitiveness and economic growth in general. the growth of corruption during a financial tightening of the belt creates a few winners. the loser is a single modern, democratic and rule of law state. corruption is primarily understood as the abuse of power, power and position. citizens are telling us today in the streets of many cities that national and european politics have violated this silent agreement. this is, in my view, the aspect of corruption that should concern us most and that we have paid too little attention to in recent years. corruption is our european problem, it is the problem of democratically elected representatives of national and european institutions. we are not immune to corruption in this institution either. the latest report of the slovenian commission for the prevention of corruption also proves that corruption is not a problem of a left or right political option alone. in times of crisis, corruption also increasingly obviously weakens the immune system of our democracies, so we must act before we find that a financial operation has succeeded but our democratic body or patient has died. strict measures are needed to prevent corrupt actions by political decision-makers in the short term and to act as a driving force for the establishment of a political culture in the long term. it is a direct twist, ladies and gentlemen, that today in the member states of the union, those politicians who have been proven to have violated the national anti-corruption legal order and european integrity standards are embracing the authorities as if they were their own. that is why we in the crim committee have already made some very clear proposals, including a five-year ban on individuals running for and holding public office at all levels, convicted corruption, increased transparency in the business and financing of political parties, and the establishment of positive and negative lists of companies involved in public procurement procedures. we therefore call on the european commission and the council to do everything in their power and competence to put such measures into practice as quickly as possible and to report to the competent committee of the european parliament.
today's topics and content fundamentally concern the credibility of all politicians, not just us in the institutions of the european union. it is about all those who hold power, who make political and other decisions, and the public's trust in their judgment, good faith, ability to decide and act. bribed decision makers are driven by private and personal interests over public ones. the principle of the caring master is directly threatened, pushed aside to the detriment of the community and in favor of personal gain. as a result, decisions are more costly for the european union and for each company. this is a particularly serious problem in times of financial and economic crisis. successfully tackling corruption would go a long way towards reducing public expenditure in the european union and in all member states, and above all, would improve the public's, our citizens' confidence in the european union and in the institutions of our own countries - something we are sorely lacking.
on behalf of the alde group. on behalf of the liberal and democratic group, i want to express my clear support for this resolution. i welcome the high representative's assurance that it is in our interest that the conference we are talking about should take place as soon as possible, and at the same time we regret that it has been postponed. i believe that the work of ambassador labbe ville was not in vain. the conference on the establishment of a middle east free of weapons of mass destruction, as envisaged by the non-proliferation treaty review conference, will be an important step, a new phase in the continuing efforts towards the total elimination of these deadly weapons. what we're aiming for is global zero, and it's a long way to go. at the moment, the area we want to exclude from the arms race of the most dangerous kind is almost exclusively the source of information on the escalation of danger, on violence, on the destruction of civilized values, on the disappearance of traditional states, on the trampling of human rights. the commitment to non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which is the aim of the conference we are advocating, would be a step towards ensuring stability and peace in the region. it will not, of course, bring a solution to the problems that are bleeding syria, the suffering of the people of iraq and lebanon, the insecurity of the palestinians, the people of israel and jordan. if we succeed in this step, we will have the inspiration for the next and the patience to find political solutions, because wars do not solve anything.
first of all, thank you, commissioner, for a great presentation of everything the eu has already done. violence against women is actually a fundamental human rights issue that we have not yet been able to eradicate. the physical and sexual violence experienced by more than 70 percent of women is just the tip of the iceberg. under it are economic discrimination, sexism, forced prostitution and, in some cases, forced marriage. we need to recognise that violence against women shapes women's role in society and affects their access to employment, education, social and cultural inclusion, economic independence and participation in public and private life. as long as women are still most at risk in the places where they are supposed to be most secure - that is, among their loved ones, in their own homes - we cannot speak of equal opportunities or of a progressive society. as ulrike said, i would like to invite everyone to v-day on february 14th, a day that will bring together one billion people around the world to dance to raise awareness against violence.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de backer, for his excellent cooperation over the last few months, during which time we have been working intensively on the financing of smes and have managed to produce a report in parliament which, in the light of the consequences of the systemic crisis, clearly advocates improving the situation of smes. they are the backbone of the european economy and a major driver of economic growth and employment in the eu. i am glad that we have been able to broaden the discussion on the financial vulnerability of smes to a wider range of companies, thus confirming that we do not have just one type of company in europe, and thus not just one type of solution for them. for example, financial support for micro-enterprises is extremely important in several member states, including my own, slovenia. given that microenterprises in slovenia represent as much as 90% of all domestic enterprises, it is crucial that we continue to support micro-credit at european level, which in particular makes it easier for the smallest enterprises to start up. we are very sorry that we have not been able to give more attention to social entrepreneurship in the negotiations on the final report, as the rapporteur knows, because i have been very active on this subject, which is an increasingly important sector within the european union. although social enterprises often receive public support, private investment through the funds that invest in them is still crucial to their growth, and i believe that with a 10% share among european enterprises, social enterprises would also earn their place in the debate on improving the financing of european entrepreneurship.
on behalf of the ppe group. the report brings a significant shift towards faster access to medicines for patients, and a shift towards a single market in medicines. member states have different timeframes for the entry of new medicinal products on the market due to a number of barriers. all of this is detrimental to patient safety and sends mixed signals to industry. clear signals can encourage centres of excellence to undertake in-depth research towards greater disease control. the demographic changes also make in-depth research necessary. the report also aims to simplify procedures and make public information on the institutions and professionals who decide on the entry of medicines into public health systems. the european commission has drawn up a proposal for a directive that is a little too ambitious for parliament and the member states. the rapporteur's report before us is a balanced document for patients, member states and industry. as a former minister for health, i particularly remember the complexity of the procedures and the long time-limits for bringing medicines to market. too long for patients and for industry, those arms were. therefore, an improvement of the 20-year-old directive is necessary. it is also important to understand the concern of member states and health treasuries. on this day, and in a debate which is also symbolic because we are marking world cancer day, we must also be particularly aware of the importance of rapid and transparent access to medicines, medicines that save lives.
the planned construction of gas terminals in the gulf of thrace still leaves a number of open questions, one of the most important being the environmental impact assessment. i'm interested in the commission's opinion on two separate environmental impact reports. the first report concerns the gas terminal and the second the pipeline, which is subsequently connected to the italian gas network. this breakdown does not take into account the overall impact of the project and shows significantly lower environmental impacts, so i believe that a single report should be prepared for both power plants together. in addition, the question of marine pollution, geological risks and the disruption of international passenger traffic, which is of particular importance for both ports in the gulf, remain. the project would place the inhabitants in close proximity to the gas terminals and would expose them to a number of risks. we have not had the opportunity to express our views, so i hope we will in the future.
draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - as rapporteur for the regi committee, i will also be addressing the very issue raised by mr van nistelrooij. i should start by saying that we in the committee on regional development are in agreement that it is essential to work towards strengthening economic and budgetary coordination in the context of the european semester, but at the same time we stress that growth and social justice can only be achieved by a differentiated approach to fiscal consolidation for the member states. the annual growth survey should serve as an opportunity for member states to put investment in growth and job creation at the heart of their efforts. however, austerity measures should be continued gradually and in the longer term. a more diversified and balanced consolidation of public finances at national, regional and local level could contribute to greater market confidence, increased competition and growth prospects, and better employment opportunities across the european union. it is important that cohesion policy also finds its place in the european semester, because it deserves it. in the context of the financial crisis and the reduced lending capacity of the private sector, the structural funds and the cohesion fund are the fundamental leverage that allows member states to stimulate the economy and achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. and i cannot help but point out that, given that we are so united in the regi committee on the role of cohesion in the european semester and on what should be financed by the cohesion funds, i must call on the colleagues who voted against these amendments yesterday in the econ committee not to do so next time.
cites is one of the most successful international instruments for the protection of wild plant and animal species. let me give you an example: in my country, slovenia, we have also radically reduced the number of infringements. this result is due to the awareness of citizens and the implementation, of course, of the requirements to prohibit trade in certain animal and plant species. but now is not the time to stop, but we must continue to educate the population. the european union has established strict monitoring and oversight of the implementation of the convention for all member states. however, there are differences in the strictness of the implementation of the convention at the global level. and i think it's right that we should be aware of these differences and try to reduce them. i therefore invite the commission and the council to take note of these differences in the negotiations and to work towards the full and diligent implementation of the convention by all signatories. i would also like to hear the commission and the council give more detail on the initiatives we have put forward in this, our resolution, in the european parliament. we've heard a little bit about transparency of decision-making and sharks. but i would also like to hear the definitions on funding, protection of big cats, reptiles, polar bears and the other species we have mentioned in our resolution. and finally, let me say that the negotiations on this convention can also serve as a model for other negotiations, for example, on climate change.
the european budget of one per cent is not just a number, although it is so low that in normal living conditions it can be a statistical error: one per cent! so it's about political will. it is about whether we want europe, and it is about whether we want to be more interconnected. connected through the digitalisation of europe, connected through infrastructure. and if we want a better quality of life, will we also put more money into research and development that serves health, that serves disease control? so more europe in a balanced budget.
erdoğan and öcalan deserve our full and unwavering support. this is a historical process. such a process is only possible when negotiators with political courage are involved. you both have it. look at the example of the high-level dialogue between belgrade and pristina, where they achieved a lot in just a few months. president nikolić and president jahjaga are meeting in brussels. we must encourage erdogan to engage in such a dialogue with cyprus. we need a breakthrough and a mutual trust. the resolution of the kurdish issue within turkey is a strategic process that is crucial for the stability of the region, in particular syria, iraq and iran. it is right that we in the european parliament should encourage and help them, including by allowing turkey to open chapters 23 and 24.
today is not about an attack on bulgaria and its citizens, today is about the state of democracy and fundamental values. it's in our mutual interest. more than five years after bulgaria's accession to the union, we are still receiving numerous calls from bulgarians pointing to restrictions on freedom of expression, the infiltration of organised crime groups into decision-making structures, and, in the light of the upcoming elections, also to unacceptable interference in electoral legislation and the complete inability of national institutions to deal with these challenges on their own. it is unacceptable that we have to witness such an extreme event as the attempted assassination of a prominent political figure to be lulled into a stupor. bulgaria is not an isolated case. the growing corruption and consequent distrust of the institutions is evident in many member states, including my country, slovenia. our union is only as democratic and socially just as its weakest elements are strong. i therefore ask the european commission what it intends to do, in addition to publishing reports on the state of the rule of law, to prevent the union from dismantling our common democratic foundations. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you very much, mr president, you have asked my colleagues this question before. the main reason for this is that we do not want to get into an ideological-political divide. it is simply a matter of talking about the state of democracy not only in bulgaria but in all our member states of the union and of speaking out publicly and loudly as an institution, as the european parliament, when these foundations of democracy in our countries are threatened. and that's why this discussion is so important today.
today we voted on a resolution on the cites conference, which i believe is one of the most successful conferences where an international agreement has been reached from which we can also learn a great deal. the important messages from these negotiations are three in particular, and that is, for the first time, it was clear at this conference what the evil is that we want to prevent. secondly, the real desire, motive and will of the vast majority of countries to act. and third, a fair sharing of responsibility. i've been to five climate change conferences, and i don't think any of those three conditions are being met. first, i think most countries really don't want to act. secondly, there is no fair sharing of responsibility either, as only a handful of countries have opted to continue the kyoto protocol, including mainly european countries and australia, which together account for only 15 percent of emissions. and third, we don't have a clear definition of evil either, because we're going from the bottom up, and so we're missing that red thread, which is that we need to agree on how much countries will cut emissions, so that the burden of reducing global warming is equitably shared. commissioner, i respect the energy you have to insist on these negotiations. but i am now calling on you to focus on one issue in the negotiations that follow, and that is to reduce emissions fairly in the countries and not to lose sight of other areas that are not so important. and the second question i would like to put to the commission and the council is: what is plan b, what is plan b besides plan a? in international negotiations we must be flexible and we must be prepared to fail to exploit or achieve the perfection of everything we strive for. and that's why i'm asking you how flexible we are.
tax fraud and evasion have always posed a serious challenge to public finance systems, but the financial crisis and the sharp cuts in public social services have shown the need for action. the introduction of a rapid reaction mechanism in cases of vat fraud is therefore more than welcome. although it is late, it is urgent. we are sending a clear message to our citizens that we are prepared to face measures that will not only curtail their rights and reduce the standards of the welfare state, but will also be aimed at curbing the activities of organised criminal groups that cause an extraordinary outflow of public funds into private hands. the cross-border nature of vat fraud has left the member states largely powerless. when they wanted to act, they were forced to wait for a lengthy legislative process. the rapid response mechanism removes these obstacles, but we must be aware that it cannot tackle tax fraud on paper. we must also provide all other means for its effective implementation in practice. even if the mechanism proves to be an effective defence against vat fraud, we must not be lulled by this small success and hope that it represents only a small piece in the mosaic of a wider european strategy to combat tax fraud, evasion and other forms of financial crime. the €1 trillion in losses caused by various forms of tax evasion and tax fraud, including tax havens, is simply too much to be satisfied with.
as the european parliament's rapporteur on combating tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, i can only welcome and commend the commission's initiative on vat fraud. the fact is that vat fraud is the most frequently committed tax fraud and i therefore strongly support any approach and legislative proposal proposed by the commission. under the current legislative arrangements, member states faced with serious cases of unexpected and large-scale vat fraud are too often unable to act quickly. so i applaud this fast mechanism. it is necessary to improve the ability of member states to respond quickly and effectively to complex forms of tax fraud, such as tax rotation, and thereby reduce irreplaceable financial losses to public budgets. this legislative proposal should be only the first in a series of necessary changes to european legislation in the area of tax fraud.
on march 8th, we celebrate 102 years of struggle for women's emancipation and equality. we've talked a lot this year about the impact of the crisis on women and the possible ways out of the crisis. the main problem remains the gender pay gap and the lack of work-life balance. when we talk about smart, sustainable economic growth, we often forget that women can make a significant contribution to improving the economic situation. in these times, equality has become essential to achieving economic goals. more women not only bring new perspectives, new ideas and opinions and ways of thinking, but also better business results. this suggests that women currently represent an untapped potential for the much-needed boost to europe's economy. but it is also women who prefer to take up temporary jobs and stay at home, bearing the burdens of the youngest and the oldest members of the family.
draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − the sustainable energy system of the future will be much more efficient than the current one, with much more energy coming from renewable energy sources. the share of renewable sources, as planned in the future, will be so large that it will affect the technical characteristics of the entire electricity system. it's a change in the basic logic of system design. the electrical system of the future will be much more decentralized and it will also be much more flexible. this implies not only the requirement to develop supreme regulation but also to establish a dynamic production of reserve energy. so it's going to take a huge investment, where public money is just going to be the seed, as an incentive, because budgets are very limited. our main task is to create a suitable investment environment through legislation. this should clearly indicate the objective and ensure stability. that's why i am personally in favor of one, ambitious, legally binding target to reduce emissions by 2030. i would like to ask the commission again, as the european parliament has done in its report, to draw up a number of scenarios, including those which suggest that a global agreement on climate change may not be reached or that it may be less ambitious than we expect and want.
nuclear safety is a comprehensive field and it is not enough to focus on operational safety. the course of events in japan has shown the importance of a strong, independent administrative body, both in terms of its expertise and its formal structure, in ensuring nuclear safety. in addition, the design of the power plant is of paramount importance. the purpose of the stress tests was not to prohibit the use of nuclear energy. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. that is why i oppose such a text in the resolution and the amendments. the european commissioner would like to ask what your vision is of the role of the national administrations and the ensreg in the future.
once the mechanism for monitoring the implementation of global and european commitments is unified, this will mean a reduction in the administrative burden on the economy, which is good. however, we must also be careful to reduce the administrative burden on national public authorities, as member states save a lot on administrative expenditure. climate action is about reducing global warming, not about raising money for a shredded state budget. so i'm glad that the regulation says that the funds must be spent on purpose. but i cannot be satisfied with a compromise that at least 50% of the funds must be spent on purpose. that's not enough. in this way, we allow various other budgetary costs to be hidden behind the mask of environmental or climate taxes. the commission therefore considers that the measure is selective because it does not fulfil the conditions laid down in article 107 (1) of the treaty.
the prime ministers of croatia and slovenia signed a memorandum today, ending an intergovernmental dispute that threatened the ratification of the accession treaty and croatia's entry into the eu on 1 july this year. the unnecessary adventure of the croatian government is thus neutralized and slovenia will no longer be the last country to ratify the accession treaty. i support the agreement and the agreement signed today, but i would like to point out that the problem of ljubljana zagreb bank's savers, who were unable to transfer their deposits to croatian banks, will still not be solved. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of deposits that could be transferred to the bank. this is a problem that needs to be solved. today's signing should also be a boost to the serbian summit in brussels, which is discussing with cathy ashton the continuation and seventh round of the belgrade-pristina dialogue. we need to come together and act as one. the party that speaks the same language, one that everyone understands, always has the upper hand.
endocrine disruptors are part of our lives today, but they're not yet part of our consciousness. we live in a time when the cult of eternal youth and beauty is in the forefront, so cosmetics are often used to buy hope for young and old alike. on the one hand, we are aware of the health effects of food, but we are less aware that cosmetics are food for our skin and that they also have health effects. products can contain endocrine disruptors that affect our hormones and, among other things, of course, can cause reproductive disorders. i therefore draw attention to the need for intensive development to limit the level of interference. the criteria for identifying, defining and deciding on standards need to be improved. on a personal level, we sin in many ways. even though we know that the excessive use of salt and fats is unhealthy, we rarely give up this habit. so let us be very sensitive not to cast a shadow of doubt on everything, not to cause undue damage to industry and thereby the loss of jobs. i support the report and thank the rapporteur.
the european focus on 8 march this year was the impact of the economic crisis on gender equality. studies show that men were more affected by the crisis in 2008 and women since 2010. but it is also appropriate to talk about people with special needs. in fact, in tough conditions, it is much harder for an economy to compete, and the race is won by the more efficient, innovative, adaptable, as well as the stronger and more aggressive. such conditions also exist on the labour market and, as a rule, the more vulnerable groups are more affected. and the situation is not good, because last year the risk of poverty for people with special needs was a good 21%, and in slovenia, my country, even 25%. in these circumstances, we must not forget that one of our core values is solidarity. we know that we have to become more efficient as a society, that we have to discipline ourselves to consume as much as we produce. but the burden must be shared equitably. we must ensure that the most vulnerable do not bear the brunt of the crisis. we must therefore be aware of the risks to vulnerable groups in society and ensure that these people live with dignity. and that they will know and believe that interim measures mean a better future. our aim must be to revive the economy, to bring down the unemployment rate substantially, to provide fair work for fair pay and to promote solidarity. this is the strongest guarantee for the functioning of the welfare state.
question posed with the blue card raised to daniel cohn-bendit. mr. cohn-bendit, i'd like to hear from you what your suggestion is for more to offer young people. i'm very interested in your concrete solutions. and i'm even more interested in concrete solutions to get the economy going, given that you're the ones who often set very unrealistic conditions where the economy has to change overnight.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the crisis on the peninsula is a virtual one for the most part, but the dictatorship is very real and incredibly cruel. recent events in the north of the korean peninsula, and especially the provocations, go beyond any predictable and acceptable modes of behaviour of political leaders at home or in the international arena. nerve-wracking dancing on a knife’s edge and an extension of labour camps for political re-education is unacceptable and irresponsible and is reckless playing with the international community and the lives of the citizens of both north and south korea. there is oppression and torture of north korea’s own citizens on the feeble pretext of an external threat to the country. no one poses any kind of threat, military or political, to the north korean state, economy or citizens apart from their own regime. the new dictator from the kim dynasty is testing every neighbour’s nerves – even those of its largest trading partner and ally, china. enough is enough. the security council of the united nations has been unanimous. it may well be that kim jong-un wants political reforms, economic development and perhaps even a better standard for his citizens, but this display of military muscle and propaganda war is a poker game that is simply too dangerous. we do not need to participate in this sabre-rattling. memories of the 46 innocent victims of the torpedo strike on the south korean patrol vessel cheonan exactly three years ago are still very vivid. seoul, our important partner, deserves all our solidarity and support, but also recognition for its measured and constructive response. we demand that the regime change its attitudes to its own citizens and begins democratisation by respecting basic human rights. this is the right topic for us, for the eu, for parliament and not the threatening show of fire power, exploitation of people and additional threats with imaginary circumstances.
today we have on the agenda a so-called 'small agenda' which is expected and welcomed by a great many people in europe. i think that this report and the commissioner's benevolence actually underline that in times of crisis we must support those economic initiatives that have been neglected for a long time, even ideologised. i come from a country that has a history of socialism and that has somehow ideologically stigmatized any cooperative-type activity. this is also true for other countries in eastern europe. i think we are at a new moment, in a new situation, where we need to encourage such an economy and give it the appropriate systemic framework. this initiative is an important step in that direction.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i like that you talked about the ethical dimension of sport and its impact on the formation of young people in particular. i'm interested in your commentary on the extent to which the absolutely excessive commercialization of sports is actually eating at sports and destroying it from within. we have anomalies in the enormous fees that athletes receive in various sports. now, these days we're collecting signatures in this parliament against the decision to withdraw hand-to-hand combat from the olympic program as a highly ethically inspired sport. do you not think that there should be some serious thought about how to set some ethical boundaries for the commercialization of sports?
mr president, madam commissioner, i congratulate you on your clear position and your willingness to take this problem seriously. i also welcome the resolution that has been tabled. match-fixing is one form of corruption in sports, but it is not the only one. the fight against this is only just beginning, even in slovenia, where judicial processes are already underway. we are a step ahead in the fight against doping, for example. the key is to leave it to the national states or the european union, the key is accession. so the principle of subsidiarity alone is not enough. corruption in sport has long since crossed national borders, and so the fight against it must be transnational. interpol, which is based solely on the coordination or cooperation of national law enforcement authorities, as well as europol and eurojust, are all necessary bodies in the fight against corruption in sport, but this is not enough. in the years ahead, we must build stronger, more effective mechanisms, a common approach, common european legislation and common eu structures.
in writing. − i support the maintenance of milk quotas until 2020, which is in the vital interest of slovenian milk producers. a study carried out for the european commission has shown that the abolition of milk quotas also means the abolition of milk production in most european countries. in the long term, only two european countries would be able to produce competitive milk if quotas were abolished. i voted against the reimbursement of the costs of exporting live animals for three reasons: animal welfare, because these transports involve unnecessary torture of animals. long haul shipping is also not in line with european efforts to increase local food production. finally, it should be in europe's interest to export finished products with higher added value and price. i also voted to abolish the sugar quota, or sugar beet. slovenia, which was once quite active in this field, abandoned sugar production in 2007 due to poor conditions and management conditions caused by the common agricultural policy and the effects of globalisation. today, we are witnessing a shortage of sugar and a sharp rise in prices, with many negative consequences. the abolition of quotas is therefore essential, not only for slovenian consumers and the processing industry, but also for job creation and the maintenance of farming in economically weak regions.
we have real problems with the ets system, but we need to solve them in the long term. backloading was proposed as a short-term and temporary measure and therefore does not represent a solution. it may have been used by the commission to assess the level of climate ambition in the european parliament, i.e. how far it could take climate legislation in the future. but i do not agree with this way of working and i reject it. the debate and decision on the commission's proposal is wasting valuable time which could otherwise be devoted to the structural measures that are really needed. if we were to discuss structural measures instead of a temporary exemption for vouchers, we could at least achieve part of the solution already in this mandate. i'm afraid we're not going to make it. many arguments have been made. let me say again that the ets is not intended to replenish the national budgets. higher unit prices would lead to higher energy prices. and these are already among the highest in the world. and that would not only put a strain on industry and the economy, but also on households. i was approached by a number of lobbyists, both for and against the european commission's proposal. and a lot of unions. but i will vote against it because our climate standards are adequate for 2020 and because i do not want to put in doubt the employment of a few thousand people in slovenia and a few million in the european union. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 1498))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i believe that one of the main reasons for the problems we currently have with the ets is that our legislation is too intertwined, too complex, too complex, and that the interactions have not been sufficiently well assessed. let's say we have a target for the share of renewable energy, we have a target for energy efficiency. and through subsidies, we're putting public money into these measures, which actually means a much higher price than the price in the ets. and that's where i think the main mistake is, and that's what we need to fix.
i don't believe people who say that every rain or snow is caused by carbon dioxide. but the issue of permits is for me a growth issue, it is for me a new jobs issue in the field of new technologies and it is a health, people and environment issue. health, growth and jobs are directly linked. the ticket system that we have set up in europe supports all three. it supports it if it has real value. and the value of the permits that are supposed to be withdrawn is worth one percent of the european budget. and for one percent of the european budget, the question is whether we are prepared to have a system that works, or whether we are prepared to break it. and whether we're going to let something become worth nothing. and what's worth nothing is no good to anyone.
i would like to support the rapporteur, zito gurmai, who is dealing with gender equality and gender discrimination outside the field of employment for the first time at eu level. it's a great report we're discussing today. and i would really like to extend my respect to the reporter who has tackled this really important problem. the principle of equality as the basis of eu law is also an indicator of the degree of democracy and democracy in general in the european union. access to goods and services is something that affects all of us in a big way. we must therefore fight against discrimination in this area. unfettered access to goods and services has a positive impact on stimulating economic activity, so that more people with unfettered access to goods and services can benefit our businesses in these difficult times. i would like to give particular support to the idea of involving the media and the general public in monitoring the directive and organising information campaigns.
in the accession process, croatia also had to agree on some open issues with slovenia in a european spirit. the longest remaining open question concerned the bank deposits of ljubljana bank in croatia. the successor states of yugoslavia agreed a decade ago that the issue of foreign exchange deposits would be resolved on the basis of a joint agreement. this agreement deals with the financial assets and liabilities of the former yugoslavia. however, croatia nevertheless initiated legal proceedings against the slovenian banks. in march this year, however, slovenia re-committed to halting all court proceedings against slovenian banks and to respect the agreement already reached. slovenia has therefore ratified the accession treaty. unfortunately, within days of ratification, the civil court in zagreb continued the legal proceedings. croatia has already broken the agreement after a few days. such behaviour is reintroducing uncertainty into slovenian-croatian relations. i should like to stress that slovenia welcomed the latest progress report from the european commission on croatia. slovenia's conduct was in good faith, as it ratified the accession treaty despite the fact that major problems between the two countries had not been resolved.
it is clear from the debate today that this is a great success for the common market and for the future supervision of banks. the financial crisis revealed many weaknesses in the banks' operations, with banks having too little or inadequate capital to cover losses. therefore, the losses had to be borne by the taxpayers. i'm glad that we took seriously the lessons that we learned during the financial crisis, especially the banking crisis, and with this agreement, we put pressure on the banks to return to their original role, which is to finance the real economy. that is why i warmly welcome the agreement on bank bonuses, which we have heard a great deal about today, and which is crucial if we are to put an end to the culture of irresponsible risk in the banking sector. less money for bankers' bonuses means more money for new jobs after all and this is the right answer to the crisis, offered by the european parliament as well.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission's proposal on so-called backloading (freezing of co2 auctions) as it represents the first necessary step towards structural reforms of the european emissions trading scheme (ets). restoring the carbon price signal would stimulate investment in green technologies and, through the mechanism, in resource-efficient and low-carbon technologies, which will prevent the eu from becoming trapped in high-carbon infrastructure and using foreign resources that europe does not have. at the same time, a well-functioning ets also promotes energy efficiency improvements, which will protect european industry from fluctuations in fossil fuel prices. the carbon price under the ets is crucial to prevent distortions in the eu's internal energy market. without immediate ets adjustments, member states may adopt unilateral climate policies such as the carbon price fixing already introduced by the uk or the coal tax introduced by the netherlands. in the absence of consistent pan-european rules, costs and risks for investors will increase, jeopardising the (over) necessary investments in modernising the european energy sector. backloading would thus not reduce european competitiveness, as many industrial sectors will not need to buy vouchers in the coming years. they will continue to receive free vouchers and will be able to use the surplus they have accumulated.
in writing. − i supported the report on the exemption of intercontinental flights from the emissions trading system, which includes an agreement with the eu council on the temporary abolition of the emissions trading system for intercontinental flights. the aim is to contribute to the development of a global agreement within the international civil aviation organisation. aviation emissions have more than doubled since 1990 and are rising steadily. the carbon trading system was established in 2005 and set a general limit on emissions that gradually declines over the long term. by 2020, emissions in the economic sectors covered by the scheme are expected to be 21% lower than in 2005. undertakings under this restriction obtain or purchase licences offered by member states at auction. one permit gives the right to emit one tonne of co2. companies may sell unused allowances. the limitation of the supply of allowances ensures that they have a fixed price, which encourages companies to invest in emission controls.
in writing. − i supported the legislative proposals that will open up the market for groundhandling services at large european airports to more providers. meps also introduced amendments to ensure high efficiency and safeguards against the relocation of employees. parliament added to the text the minimum quality standards that groundhandling service providers will have to comply with at european airports with an annual traffic of at least five million passengers. the standards specify the maximum waiting time for baggage check-in, the maximum time for the first and last pieces of baggage to be removed from the aircraft and the minimum stock of de-icing fluid. the new rules provide that at airports with an annual traffic of at least 15 million passengers or 200 thousand tonnes of freight, tenders for the provision of groundhandling services will have to be submitted by at least three and no longer by two tenderers. ground handling services include maintenance, fuelling and baggage handling. in cases where the airport only provides groundhandling, it will have to separate transaction accounts for this purpose. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the ccipb and ryanair on the basis of the agreements concluded between ryanair and ams on the basis of the agreements concluded between ryanair and ams on the basis of the agreements concluded between ryanair and ams on the basis of the agreements concluded between ryanair and ams on the basis of the agreements concluded between ryanair and ams.
in the light of the eu's systemic crisis, the ecb's decisions have repeatedly proved crucial, and i welcome the measures taken in recent years, which have indeed enabled the bank to reduce the cost of borrowing for member states and to play an important role in stabilising financial markets in the european union at several points. but i am concerned about the ecb's low capacity and interest to finance the real economy and the general capacity of the european banking system to finance and support smes and households. the key priority of the ecb must be to promote and create new jobs and economic growth in the european union, as it focuses solely on price stability and does not lead us out of the crisis, as has been repeatedly stressed today. the fact is that the ecb is expected to have a long list of additional supervisory functions in the near future, and i therefore hope that in the future we will be able to define precisely the role and capabilities of the bank, both in the monetary and in the fiscal and supervisory functions. the constant but unregulated increase in the ecb's role within the troika and the banking union calls for new administrative and regulatory rules and greater transparency and accountability.
i was very happy to hear one of the sentences that you mentioned, and that was, i hope i understood it correctly, that there will be a recovery, and that there will be a recovery in 2013. we simply need people, and they need encouraging information. the problem, of course, in europe today is the populism that is going on within the two words "save" or "grow". this is why reforms are so difficult, why reforms are so difficult to implement, and of course, it is clear that one cannot do without the other. and how good information for smes, that they will finally have this greater access to capital.
in the last few years, european policymakers have introduced several new financial assistance instruments for euro area countries in response to the pressures and consequences of the economic and financial crisis. the temporary euro protection fund, followed by the ratification of the european stability mechanism, was set up as a firewall to protect the euro. the economic crisis and the financial difficulties of some euro area member states have made it imperative for the eu to create a specific financial mechanism that can effectively prevent the crisis from spreading. this mechanism, also known as the balance of payments, which regulates financial assistance to non-euro area member states, has not been sufficiently addressed. it is therefore crucial, in the light of the progress made with the recent two-pack and the new items in the ferreira report, to align with the new instrument for providing financial assistance to member states whose currency is not the euro. in this light, i welcome in substance the inclusion of a reference to a cost-benefit analysis for public investment. it is also important that the balance of payments instrument for non-euro area countries also includes quality control of public finances, including the provisions and the impact of the envisaged budgetary measures to achieve the europe 2020 objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i think we are going to take into consideration what the commissioner has proposed, namely to come to our regi committee. we too would like to see you in our committee. i shall now continue in my mother tongue. predlagana posodobitev državne pomoči je na mestu in verjamem, da bo tudi pozitivno vplivala na rast in zaposlovanje. a me izjemno skrbi dobesedno protislovni pristop dodeljevanja regionalne državne pomoči v luči sprememb kohezijske politike za naslednje obdobje. zelo konkretno bi rada izpostavila eno slovensko regijo, to je zahodna slovenija, ki predstavlja skoraj polovico prebivalstva in bi po novih pravilih dobesedno čez noč izgubila pravico do dostopa do regionalnih pomoči. zahodna slovenija je namreč v novem okviru pridobila status varnostne mreže za regije, ki so preskočile eno razvojno kategorijo prehodnih regij in zato je v realnosti močno odvisna od regionalne pomoči. ustvarjenih je bilo 1600 delovnih mest iz regionalne sheme državnih pomoči v prejšnjem obdobju. zato se mi zdi ključno, da vztrajamo in da zagotovimo, da se ustvarijo konkretne sinergije med spremembami kohezijske politike in politiko dodeljevanja regionalnih pomoči. zahodni sloveniji smo dobesedno že zagotovili varnostno mrežo v okviru kohezijske politike in na tem mestu res pozivam komisijo, da tudi v prihodnjih sedmih letih zagotovi enako obravnavo regij, ki so v varnostni mreži, tudi v sklopu regionalnih pomoči.
if five years ago someone had told us that we would solve the crisis in europe with an experimental, ad hoc, undemocratic and totally non-transparent crisis management policy, of course we would all have resisted. today we are faced with a reality where the troika and the eurogroup are dangerously dictating the future architecture of the european union without any democratic accountability. the alarming decisions taken in the light of the cyprus solution are leaving their mark. a domino effect followed, which also affected slovenia. it is therefore crucial that speculation about which country will be the next of the fallen countries ceases as soon as possible. we are aware of the need for reform in slovenia and we are working on it. proposals, guidance, coordination from international institutions are very welcome. but all of this must be based on facts, on facts, not on speculation. the macroeconomic indicators of slovenia are very clear today public debt, unemployment rate and the level of total private debt are below the european average these are facts, these are facts.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to express the alde group's satisfaction that croatia has completed the final phase of its accession to the european union, that it has elected its dozen members of the european parliament in the first direct elections last sunday, and that they will replace a group of very sympathetic and very hardworking observers, of whom i see some among us, in our ranks. croatia is thus fulfilling its desire of more than a decade, two decades ago, to become a full member of the european union on 1 july. it's the most beautiful moon, by the way, on the most beautiful sea in the world, the adriatic. croatia has fulfilled all the conditions for membership, including those which applied only to it. history will probably consider that croatia was a proposal in the waiting room, and that it entered the european union at a moment when the union was in worse shape than it was years ago. this is probably one of the reasons for the record low turnout of croatian voters in sunday's elections. nevertheless, it is undeniable that membership of the european union opens up great development opportunities for croatia, and the process of aligning domestic legislation with european union standards, under the excellent supervision of the commission, which deserves special recognition for this, has contributed to croatia being well prepared for membership, probably better than many member states that have gone down this same path before it. adapting to democratic standards is a process that takes time and adds to itself. this is particularly true of the consistent application of the rule of law, respect for minorities, eradication of corruption and healing of wounds caused during wars and conflicts of the past. as in many countries in the region, we heard something similar today in the debate on hungary, in croatia too political discourse is often unnecessarily harsh and aggressive, and respect for different values and traditions is more optional. ladies and gentlemen, croatia will be an added value for the european union, and we will have to make an effort, both croats and ourselves.
first of all, congratulations to the newly elected croatian colleagues in the european parliament. the elections on sunday were the first european elections in croatia, and the low voter turnout was a stark reminder that croatia, too, could not avoid the current european trends, the mistrust and uncertainty of european citizens. i believe that slovenia, our southern neighbour, will become an even closer partner in political and economic terms with its accession on 1 july. we worked hard to resolve the open issues between slovenia and croatia, but in the end we always found ways to resolve them. i emphasise this because the proceedings against slovenian banks are continuing in croatian courts, despite the recent memorandum by which the slovenian and croatian governments have arranged the way to resolve the disputes about ljubljanska banka. croatia has undertaken to suspend all proceedings before croatian courts until a comprehensive settlement of the dispute has been reached, which will be settled in the negotiations within the framework of the succession. slovenia has fulfilled its obligation under the memorandum and we sincerely look forward to the membership of our southern neighbour in the european union.
croatia's accession to the european union means much more than we think. we have proved to all the skeptics that despite the economic crisis, new countries are welcome if and when they meet the criteria for entry. this is of great importance for the other countries of the western balkans. i hope that croatia's accession will give a significant boost to reforms in the region. croatia will play an important role there. i hope that the croatian and serbian presidents will also come together soon, meet and contribute to further improving relations between the two countries. both sides must do everything possible to accelerate the process of reconciliation and support for the recom initiative is one of the most logical options. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption and organised crime. public concern over the use of the cyrillic alphabet in cities where ethnic serbs live shows the need to further strengthen institutions and the implementation of laws, the constitution and the obligations arising from eu membership. i expect croatia to help bosnia and herzegovina and its political leaders as well.
the collected works of my colleague rie oomen-ruijten will one day be a series of quality reports on the progress of turkey. we are used to her realistic and balanced approach, but i am also pleased to see the importance of climate change. the report welcomes progress 12 times, supports it 6 times, calls for it 7 times, regrets it only once, condemns it twice and is concerned about it four times. a good atmosphere is needed for progress undoubtedly strengthened by the improved internal political dialogue as well as the external political dialogue in turkey. of course, we know what's critical about that. as we are in the process of negotiations, it seems to me that, with all our differences, which we have heard today, it is nevertheless sensible to open a new chapter, to ensure that the commitments already made are fulfilled, and also to deepen cooperation in the mutual interest, especially in the field of foreign policy and energy. for many things we do not need new formal frameworks or contracts, we just need good will.
on behalf of the alde group. two days ago, as the minister said earlier, the second negotiating chapter, chapter 26, was opened and provisionally closed at the meeting of the accession conference with montenegro in brussels. i think it also has some symbolic meaning, because this chapter opens up to young montenegrin men and women access to attractive programmes such as erasmus mundus, tempus and a few others that connect them with the world. progress in the negotiations was made possible by the assessment that montenegro was already well prepared in this area, also thanks to the irish presidency. the resolution, drawn up by mr tannock, also reflects montenegro's progress in some other areas which are crucial for membership of the european union. however, it also makes a serious and concrete reference to the many areas where montenegro still has much work to do: judicial reform, ensuring the independence of the judiciary and the prosecutors, continuing the systematic fight against corruption, establishing a modern public administration, modernising communication with civil society and social dialogue, economic reform. the recent presidential elections, which observers assessed as having been conducted in accordance with democratic standards, revealed a marked division in montenegrin society, mainly along ethnic and religious lines. as this will be a constant and a feature of montenegro for a long time, it is important to emphasise the political culture capable of accepting compromises and respecting diversity. the treatment of same-sex communities in montenegro is often discriminatory, and this is not acceptable. ladies and gentlemen, when i speak of montenegro as a relatively unproblematic future member of the european union, it is certainly necessary to highlight the role of this small but strong country in stabilising the situation in the wider region. we look forward to following the development of montenegro in the coming period.
i congratulate the rapporteur, montenegro and the european commission on the just closed chapter 26. four open and two already closed chapters are proof of the good organization and efficient functioning of the state, but some institutions are blocked. it's not about the president of the country, it's about parliament and its working bodies. the eu-montenegro joint association committee is due to meet later this month. i see no justification for the opposition's blocking of the assembly. montenegro is not albania, nor macedonia, but a successful negotiator who is reforming. boycotting and blocking the assembly is the wrong message at the wrong time. if you want to activate parliament only for dialogue with the european parliament, i say that this is not the way to do it. problems must be solved institutionally, and in a parliamentary democracy this is primarily the parliament.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, we will focus attention now on serbia. we believe that serbia has continued on its way to sufficiently fulfilling the political criteria and conditions of the stabilisation and association process. however, the reform agenda, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the independence of key institutions and further improving the business environment need to be further developed and implemented. moreover, i would like to point to the special attention that should be given to the rights and inclusion of vulnerable groups – particularly the roma – as well as to the effective implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities, the non-discriminatory treatment of national minorities throughout serbia and tackling discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. constructive engagement by serbia in regional cooperation and in strengthening relations with neighbouring countries is extremely important. with a view to a possible decision of the european council to open accession negotiations with serbia, the commission and the high representative are preparing their report on progress on all the issues identified by the council in its conclusions of 11 december last year. the report was scheduled for yesterday but its publication has been delayed in view of the dialogue meeting today. the report will in particular assess progress made with respect to the key priority of taking steps towards a visible and sustainable improvement of relations with kosovo, in line with the stabilisation and association process. this key priority equally applies to kosovo. you may recall that the council asked in its conclusions of 11 december last year for irreversible progress towards delivering structures in northern kosovo which meet the security and justice needs of the local population in a transparent and cooperative manner and in a way that ensures the functionality of a single institutional and administrative set-up within kosovo. we are ready to assist serbia and kosovo in order to achieve sustainable and lasting results. as i mentioned, high representative ashton is convening a new round of the belgrade-pristina dialogue today, and it would be irresponsible of me to start speculating on the possible outcome of today’s meeting. we recognise and commend the consistent efforts by both prime ministers, mr thaçi and mr dačić, and not least by the high representative herself, catherine ashton. their efforts have been tireless and the dialogue process has delivered results– very important and substantial results, i would say – in a number of areas such as integrated border management, the exchange of liaison officers and religious and cultural heritage. these results must now be turned into action on the ground. the dialogue has been conducted in a very positive atmosphere, which in itself represents progress in normalising relations. the council expects the two sides to continue and to accelerate their work in addressing all aspects of the relations between them. i am very hopeful that further progress can be made today. i strongly encourage all sides to continue their engagement in the hope that a solution can be found that will allow us all to move forward together. let me recall that we support serbia’s european perspective and want both serbia and kosovo to continue on their respective european paths. a visible and sustainable improvement in relations between them would avoid any block that may interfere with these efforts. i hope very much for a positive outcome from today’s dialogue and i would like to thank members for their attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jelko kacin, for his precise and positive report. it reflects serbia’s recent achievements well, and it comprehensively lists the challenges to be addressed on serbia’s path to the european union. let me start with two remarks. firstly, we have once more arrived at a major turning point in our relations with serbia. i am hopeful that new significant results can be achieved in the belgrade-pristina dialogue. the high representative has convened a meeting with the prime ministers of both kosovo and serbia today. we are very hopeful that this dialogue will result in a clear agreement. this is in the strategic interests of both serbia and kosovo and of the entire western balkan region, as well as of the european union as a whole. it is time for serbia and kosovo to move on from the past and look ahead to a common european future. we hope that the two leaderships will seize the historic opportunity that lies before them. it is in the interest of their citizens for them to do so. this would contribute towards a positive review of serbia’s progress at the council at the end of this month. this would be done on the basis of the upcoming report from the commission and the high representative, to be adopted shortly. secondly, i want to emphasise how much we value the courage of the new government in serbia in agreeing to make such bold moves in the dialogue thus far and in explaining them in serbia. the prime ministers have already met eight times and the presidents once. we are witnessing a profound change of approach, which we need to actively encourage. we also appreciate the recent moves by serbia to improve relations with its neighbours, notably croatia and bosnia and herzegovina. it is of equal importance that serbia continues its work on reforms. since last autumn we have witnessed a fresh drive on reforms: ministries and institutions are fully mobilised to address the findings of the commission’s progress report. there is a new impetus in the areas of judicial reform, anti-corruption and anti-discrimination, as you rightly point out in your report. let me conclude by underlining that, in the light of eroding support in serbia for the european union project, it is all the more important to create a new dynamic in our relations. i count on the serbian leadership to pursue this path with determination.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will speak as rapporteur, if you allow me. madam minister, commissioner, dear colleagues, i sincerely hope that the ongoing dialogue between the serbian and kosovan leaderships will bring results by the end of the week. a breakthrough would have far-reaching consequences for the european integration process of both countries and the western balkans as a whole, as well as for the economic recovery of the crisis-hit region. both serbia and kosovo desperately need their political leaders to dedicate all their time and energy to the reform process. therefore, normalisation between belgrade and pristina is a political imperative. serbian and kosovan leaders have rightly pointed out that their normalisation of relations should not be seen exclusively through the prism of accession process. the normalisation of relations between belgrade and pristina is in the very best mutual interest of serbia and kosovo, and i welcome this public recognition that the eu is not imposing the normalisation of relations. serbia has achieved some significant progress in the field of eu-related reforms. my report calls on the council to set the date for the beginning of accession negotiations with serbia. this will give a boost to reform-oriented forces in the country and help economic recovery. i would argue that this is in our interest as well as serbia’s. we have recently seen rising political tensions between the central and provisional authorities with regard to the scope of the autonomy of vojvodina. i would like to call on all actors, particularly the central authorities, to try to bring down the increasingly worrying tone of this debate. the legal and political solution to vojvodina’s autonomy should not be debated in the streets but through the normal institutions and democratic framework. this will ensure that the economic and historic particularities of vojvodina are recognised. the ongoing reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime are of the utmost importance. if accession negotiations are to run smoothly, serbia needs to establish a convincing track record in this field. the investigation into the political background of the assassination of prime minister zoran đinđić, as well as the long-overdue trials of those responsible for murders of journalists in the 1990s, will be crucial tests of these processes. i sincerely hope that we will have a chance to toast the historical achievement of serbia and kosovo by the end of the week. we deserve it and they deserve it. the incentive of eu membership remains strong and appealing. i hope that we will together seize this unique opportunity to close the chapter of balkan conflict and open a new one, which will be marked by accession-driven reforms and regional cooperation. thank you very much mr president.
the serbian and kosovar prime ministers are in brussels right now making a serious effort to achieve a result in the dialogue. their readiness clearly demonstrates the commitment of both to continue on the european path at an accelerated pace. i very much hope that there will be a positive outcome and that the european commission will then adopt an encouraging message for both countries later this week. this is a historic opportunity, and no one wants to stop the process, no one wants to deepen the differences. both countries have made remarkable progress in the past year. we have heard many encouraging words about croatia today, and the effort is paying off. belgrade and pristina have a lot of work ahead of them, especially in the fight against corruption and organised crime, ensuring media freedom and integrating the most vulnerable groups in society, such as the roma, also in the light of preventing abuses of the visa-free regime. visa liberalisation has opened up many opportunities for citizens in the balkans, especially the younger generation, and i hope that kosovo will soon be ready to take this step. serbia and kosovo are at the moment about to take a historic step on the european path, and i sincerely hope that they succeed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, pristina and belgrade are at the crossroads. if the deal is struck on normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo today in brussels, both countries will enter a new phase of the integration process. pristina has been a constructive partner in the high-level talks with belgrade. i particularly welcome repeated assurances by their officials that there will be no takeover of the serbian-populated north of kosovo by force, as it needs to be peacefully integrated into the wider kosovo. kosovo formally lags behind its neighbours in the integration process. but, thanks to a strong and wide consensus amongst mainstream parties about the goal of eu membership, kosovo has a great potential to advance quickly on this path. one of the greatest assets of kosovo is its multicultural and multinational character. its serbian community should be united, not divided by the iber river. in order to preserve its multiculturalism, kosovo’s authorities need to focus much more on the implementation of the ahtisaari plan and on ensuring the safety and rights of all minorities in kosovo. one of the key issues in this respect is the issue of missing persons, which is also being tackled in the high-level dialogue. belgrade, pristina and the international community need to do more to resolve this issue, which is still open more than 14 years after the end of the conflict. i would also argue that the eulex mission to kosovo needs to be strengthened in order to help facilitate the fight against systemic corruption in kosovo. pristina needs to do much more to enable its anti-corruption bodies to enforce the rule of law. lastly, i want to urge all parties to the dialogue on visa liberalisation for kosovo’s citizens to do their utmost to finish this process as soon as possible. over two million people in kosovo will feel left behind and neglected by the eu as long as their freedom of movement is severely restricted. my political group will endorse the report, and i want to thank all of you who have been involved in this process.
i believe that it is of the utmost importance to encourage and enable our participation in european citizens' discussions on matters that affect their daily lives within the european framework. but it is also necessary to reach those groups of citizens who do not usually choose to influence european union affairs and european legislation. and with the european citizens' initiative, we have achieved just that. we've managed to sort of grab the attention of those very people and offer them a new, one-of-a-kind, useful tool to shape their future. but there are still some technical details that need to be worked out and the whole system improved, because the fact that there have been 30 initiatives and only one has reached the million signatures means that something is not quite right with the system, but i am sure that one year is still only one year, and we have basically still time to do that.
the future of the european union undoubtedly depends on whether it can expand the space for democracy, whether it can successfully overcome the democratic deficit and whether it can also find systemic solutions to make the space for democracy larger. the citizens' initiative is certainly useful because it will increase this participatory power of democracy. one of the citizens' initiatives in the european union, and not the most encouraging for the european union, is taking place right now, namely the collection of signatures for the introduction of an unconditional basic income. it's a pretty demagogic idea that all citizens would get, say, 500, 600 euros a month from the state, regardless of whether they need that money or not, whether they're poor or rich. the proposers apparently think that income, or money, is printed, not created. it's another step towards a sunday society, which is not right. how will you react, commissioner, when you receive this initiative in january 2014?
the european parliament must be more involved in the selection of indicators for the scoreboard, and this is something that everyone has already said to you today, and i can only repeat what my colleagues have already said. the scoreboard for the macroeconomic imbalances procedure should be one of the items on which the commission also relies in its in-depth analyses and also links its facts to it. but unfortunately, in the light of the latest announcements last week, which included my country, slovenia, among others, there is little connection between these assessments and the commission's political assessment and conclusions. the assessment made by the european commission is extremely important, it is of far greater value than, for example, the oecd report or the german economists. that is why i want the european commission to be an ally here and need parliament when it takes such decisions. i strongly support the call for a more democratic debate on the functioning of the mechanism for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances in the european union. it is true that parliament must be involved.
mr president, we need to make a change in amendment 14. the amendment begins, ‘notes with regret that the eighth round of the high-level belgrade-pristina dialogue ended without a comprehensive agreement ...’. it was actually the ninth round yesterday and they did not reach agreement early today in the morning. so in the final version, we need to put ‘ninth’ round, not ‘eighth’ as in the amendment, which was submitted long before.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ship recycling report because ships contain many hazardous materials and every ship that goes from the eu to be broken down is hazardous waste and can therefore only be legally broken down in the oecd at the moment. this legislation is almost systematically disregarded. according to the commission's impact assessment, in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged ships were dismantled outside the oecd, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), by a so-called 'sanding' method which has significant environmental and health consequences. from ships that have been or will be dismantled between 2006 and 2015, an estimated 5,5 million tonnes of potentially environmentally hazardous materials (gold ore, oils, paints, pvc and asbestos) will end up in landfills for decommissioning. the commission argues that the proposed ship recycling regulation aims to significantly reduce the negative impacts associated with eu-flagged ship recycling, in particular in south asia, without creating an unnecessary economic burden.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − i would like to thank mr reulu for his extremely important and necessary report on renewable resources. as rapporteur for envi, i support the report. the envi report, which includes reasonable binding targets for 2030, is in line with the objectives of the rapporteur in terms of content, except that the terminology and the path to the objective differ slightly. renewable resources are the real opportunity for europe in the world, the opportunity for new jobs. we need to send a responsible message to citizens through this report that we support support human health, support environmental health and also the competitiveness of the industry that employs people, especially in this time of crisis. (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card. today is certainly the time when we must be reasonable about what we can still do as a society. and so setting today extreme binding targets, as some groups have also put forward, is something that can certainly be a burden, but it can also be a disadvantage for those who create new jobs. then i suggest reason.
the question asked by raising the blue card. ms kolarskabobinska, do you support or do you see the need to build conventional resources alongside renewable resources and do you see any major obstacles to the establishment of the internal market in the field of renewable resources?
by 2014, that is, by the following year, the internal market is to be completed. on friday i was in ljubljana for the annual conference of the acer energy agency, and commissioner oettinger was there too, and the experts reminded us that we must decide whether we want a truly functioning internal energy market or a politically regulated market. if we want a functioning internal market, then we must take account of the objectives we set ourselves back in the year 2000. what is the aim of the internal energy policy? these are security and reliability of supply, decarbonisation and also competitive prices. and this is sustainable energy. sustainable energy is not just an energy that covers the environment. so i think that the current system, which we know is not working, that we should be brave enough to think about what's wrong. and i think it's wrong to talk about a binding target for renewables only, because that means it's a singular target, a selective target, and it's also not market-driven. i think it would be much better to say that we are committed to, within climate policy, one goal, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, that is legally binding and also ambitious. in this case, this market mechanism would also work under the ets and the internal market would not have the problems it has now with unequal conditions for different energy sources, such as strong subsidies, priority approach and so on.
a year ago, when we adopted the six economic governance measures, we gave the commission the role and responsibility of improving the macroeconomic coordination of member states' policies. the strong economic interdependence of the eu countries has led to the development of macroeconomic indicators to guide the commission in preparing its country-specific assessments. at this point, and in the light of the current situation in my country, slovenia, let me remind the commission once again to take account of the agreed list of macroeconomic indicators when analysing imbalances within the european union. we have had enough of speculation about the stability of our member states from other financial sources. we expect the european institutions to carry out analyses which are not based on speculation but are actually based on these macroeconomic indicators which we have agreed.
on behalf of s&d, i would like to thank the rapporteur for an extremely good and important report which highlights the importance of equality and equal rights in the western balkan countries. although the story of equality in the balkans is improving, there are still problems that countries will have to face. the first problem, which we have also highlighted in the report with amendments, is the low number of women in the labour market. which means that women are still dependent on men in most cases. another problem is the lack of women in decision-making positions in both politics and the economy. i personally believe that in order to achieve equality in this area too, it is very important to implement the quotas that one country already has and others do not yet have, and to eliminate the stereotypes that still apply to the western balkans. it is time for the governments of these countries to commit themselves to respecting international standards not only politically but also in the legislation they adopt. as the rapporteur herself has said, legislation is one thing, practice another.
the rapporteur. − first of all, let me thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues who, through amendments and compromises, contributed to the drafting of the report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. i would also like to thank commissioner šemeti for his cooperation, with whom i have been working practically since the first day the commission drew up the two recommendations to the member states. i would also like to thank the irish presidency in particular and wish that part of today's debate would also be included in their presidency conclusions at the end of june. i believe we're discussing a good report today. the report proposes concrete measures to be taken by both the member states and the commission to tackle an alarming €1 trillion european problem. we are discussing a report which is of great importance at this moment, not only in the light of the financial problem of tax evasion, but also in the light of the social, social justice and transparency of our tax systems. it is true that parliament does not have co-legislative power in tax policy. but the cross-border nature of tax fraud and the scandalous scale of the problem of tax evasion and avoidance make it clear that unilateral national measures simply cannot achieve the desired effect. nor will the empty promises repeated by our national political leaders at all the big meetings, such as the g8, the g20 or the oecd, have any effect. today is the time for concrete action, for concrete actions, and not for new promises to the media and to all of us. at this point, i would like to call on both the irish presidency and the member states to give serious consideration and review at tomorrow's council to the list of more than 30 specific measures which we are proposing in parliament. i would also like to invite the commission not only to come up with a comprehensive legislative proposal underpinned by a european strategy to combat tax fraud, but also to take on the role of coordinating european agreements with third countries and, on behalf of the eu, to eliminate the possibility of individual bilateral tax agreements between countries. we urgently need to move forward on legislative outputs that have already been approved in parliament and are blocked in the council, some of which have been in place for more than a few years, as mr barroso also mentioned. in order to tackle illegal tax evasion more effectively, the report proposes that competent national and european authorities be given the right to revoke the banking licence of financial institutions and financial advisers who actively participate in tax fraud and offer services to their clients that enable them to evade and avoid paying taxes. the eu also needs to upgrade and extend the scope of the savings tax directive, which we have heard today, and which would end bank secrecy and ensure greater transparency in the exchange of information. the report also proposes that all multinationals should be required to report on their activities in all the countries in which they operate. only in this way will we ensure that the loopholes in tax systems are closed, which allow multinationals to pay only a few per cent of their taxes at the end of the year through careful tax planning, while all of us, citizens of the european union, pay our fair share. all starbucks, google, amazon, doing business in europe, they simply have to follow the same tax obligations as all other european citizens and contribute their fair share to society. my english colleagues in particular know this very well. the report also addresses the difficult and, at the moment, very hot topic of tax havens. tax havens are a major problem both in the international environment and within the eu. the eu therefore urgently needs a clear definition of a tax haven, common criteria and a list of appropriate sanctions for tax havens that end up on the european blacklist. we make all these suggestions clear in the report. now it is time for member states, in particular, to put action on paper into practice.
i congratulate the rapporteurs, mojca klevi kekuš and gall pelcz, on their excellent work, and i also congratulate the commission on its decisive approach, which was finally adopted, albeit belatedly. when i learned about the €1 million tax loophole, i was shocked: it is five times the public funding allocated to education in all member states combined. if we were to reduce the tax gap only partially, we could easily overcome not only the problems of financing common affairs, these common policies, but also the financial crises. so we have a systemic problem: countries are not able or willing to solve this problem. there is also the cultural one: more than a decade ago, ingelhart's global analysis of values showed great differences in tax cultures. it was particularly low in the so-called transitional post-communist countries. but we can't point the finger at the masses, just at the common people or just at a little gray economy. the main culprit in this story is big business and crime. (the president interrupted the speaker. )
the reporter. - i am very pleased with today's debate. i think we have reached a great consensus beyond the political ideas we have about solutions to the crisis, but a great consensus on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and also the fight against tax havens. we have found, i think, together with the whole parliament, that the nature of tax fraud and the great problem of tax evasion is so great that it actually exceeds the seven-year budget of the european union. we are losing in one year exactly as much money as we are negotiating for months for all the european funds for the next seven years, and i think we are all aware of this, because today's consensus was huge, political, and we also supported the concrete proposals put forward by commissioner schemmet at the beginning, that is to say the european commission's proposal, and in a few minutes' time we will also be voting on a concrete substantive mandate for our president, martin schulz, who will be representing the european parliament tomorrow, and i think i can at least make one wish at the end of this debate: i want the leaders of the member states to commit themselves tomorrow to halving the tax gap by 2020. i hope that the objective is not ambitious, i think it is achievable, and we have shown in practice in this debate today how this can be done. in this day and age, when we have 26 million europeans who are unemployed and unable to find work, and people are losing their savings, honesty and social justice must be our concern, the concern of europe, including the european parliament. i believe that tomorrow our leaders will bear this in mind when, even if only for two hours, they take very concrete measures to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens.
in writing. − i am here to ensure that the european parliament takes a leading role in shaping decisions for the sustainable development of europe. by 2050, at least 30% of our energy needs must be met from renewable sources. i agree that renewables are being introduced gradually into the market without additional support, although i believe that in the transition it will be necessary to continue to support renewables, in particular through the right frameworks and mechanisms.
in writing. − traditional pension systems are affected by lower employment, consequently lower pension contributions and an ageing population. pension funds are struggling with lower returns. in this context, i am calling on the european commission to start working seriously on a joint proposal to address the pension challenge.
the banking union is a key element of the future european union's organisation. the euro area crisis has shown us in recent years how dangerous the problems of banks can be for the autonomy and sovereignty of the member states. in fact, to bail out banks, the governments of the member states have to borrow money, which naturally puts a burden on public finances, social transfers and, ultimately, public services. in the end, the real problem with banks is that they are paid for by our taxpayers. the banking union could therefore break this vicious circle by transferring bank rescue from the national to the european level. centralized supervision at a time when virtually all european banks operate across borders and national laws should not be in doubt. today, with several member states facing the task of reforming their national banking systems, including my country, slovenia, i believe that the time is right for the european union to take the first step towards a banking union and establish a single supervisory regime for banks in the euro area. but it's crucial that we don't stop there. this is just the first step. in addition to the transfer of the european supervisory role to the european central bank, we must also swiftly approve and establish a common european rescue fund for failing banks and establish a common european guarantee for savers' deposits. it's important that the new banking architecture that we're building right now is built in a way that's clear, transparent and, above all, in a way that's understandable to everyone. we need a solid foundation for this architecture to prevent possible future crises, which we no longer want in the european union.
the turbulent financial developments in the member states have shown that we cannot strengthen the euro as a common currency with such different rules for the operation of banks, especially with regard to supervision, such weak coordination of economic policies and such different relationships between banks and politics. in addition to the economic and political aspects, i would also like to draw attention to the ethical aspect. it should be specified which types of banking activities may be subject to aid or solidarity and which may not. in other words, which cases can be invoiced to brussels and which to frankfurt. for the cost of systemic corruption, i hope not. in a context of lax rules of the game, we have seen how fragile the eu's financial system is, even if a smaller member state is in trouble. we also look at how difficult and expensive treatment is. what we are doing is not shooting at clay pigeons, it is laying one of the foundation stones of a future of stronger integration. that means different rules, different game and a different european union. the common supervisory mechanism is a key element on the way to a genuine banking union, but it is not sufficient. if we want a stronger political union, it is essential to strengthen its economic and financial dimension. this creates the possibility of systematically preventing the problematic banking within the same currency area, which is usually the result of a problematic policy. what does sovereignty do for us when the sovereign banking decisions of one country upset the entire system or weaken the sovereignty of the whole. the system should also work to prevent bad practice at levels that cannot create systemic risk. friendly banking must also be prevented at the lower levels, and the whole must operate transparently and with a high degree of democratic control. i welcome the outcome of the trialogue in that direction. i congratulate commissioner barnier and our rapporteurs and negotiators on the work they have done, and i wish all of us a good dynamic as we make further decisions on a sound legal basis.
let me start with optimism. the banking union will certainly be a success story, just as the euro is perhaps the most significant success of european integration in recent times, next to schengen. however, the crisis has created considerable mistrust in european institutions and instruments. this is the december eurobarometer. despite this and the sometimes poor management of the banks, citizens of the european union, especially slovenians, continue to have confidence in monetary union, for example. well, as of today, trends have worsened, mainly due to the banking crisis in slovenia and the political situation. in any case, a banking union in the european union will stabilise the monetary system, not just in the euro area. in my opinion, it should have been introduced long ago, as it would have streamlined the business and reduced (interruption)
in writing. − companies should not achieve competitiveness on the basis of tax optimisation alone and we are obliged to prevent the dirty deals associated with the existence of tax havens. the european union must define itself in terms of tax havens and establish a blacklist of non-cooperating jurisdictions. i very much support the report drawn up by our slovenian colleague, mrs kleva kekuš, and it is a valid request to the european council that the european commission negotiate with third countries instead of the individual member states.
in writing. − the turbulent financial developments in the member states have shown that the euro as a single currency cannot be strengthened by such different rules for the operation of banks - especially in terms of supervision, such weak coordination of economic policies and such different relationships between banks and politics. in a context of loose rules, we have seen how fragile the ec financial system is, even if a smaller member state is in trouble. we also look at how difficult and expensive treatment is. a single banking supervision is a key element on the way to a true banking union. this creates the possibility of systematically preventing the problematic banking within the same currency area, which is usually the result of a problematic policy. what does sovereignty do for us when the sovereign banking decisions of one country are shaking up the whole system, or weakening the sovereignty of the whole? friendly banking must also be prevented at the lower levels. all of this must be done in a transparent manner and with a high degree of democratic control. i welcome the outcome of the trialogue in this direction and will support the development of the banking union towards genuine joint supervision.
in writing. − the turbulent financial developments in the member states have shown that the euro as a single currency cannot be strengthened by such different rules for the operation of banks - especially in terms of supervision, such weak coordination of economic policies and such different relationships between banks and politics. in a context of loose rules, we have seen how fragile the ec financial system is, even if a smaller member state is in trouble. we also look at how difficult and expensive treatment is. a single banking supervision is a key element on the way to a true banking union. this creates the possibility of systematically preventing the problematic banking within the same currency area, which is usually the result of a problematic policy. what does sovereignty do for us when the sovereign banking decisions of one country are shaking up the whole system, or weakening the sovereignty of the whole? friendly banking must also be prevented at the lower levels. all of this must be done in a transparent manner and with a high degree of democratic control. i welcome the outcome of the trialogue in this direction and will support the development of the banking union towards genuine joint supervision.
many colleagues, before me, madam president, mr commissioner, have said that it is good that we have responded quickly to the expectations of the people in the countries affected by the arab spring. but today we have to realize that we're late. virtually no funds were returned. it is clear that we have shown that european law protects the taker more than the one who is deprived. i would like to point out that of course the funds that are being alienated, that are in the accounts of western banks, are just the funds of commissions that have been paid to the statesmen and other speculators in these countries. most of the other assets that were stolen are still there, taken by those who know how to get the safe money. and these are the multinational corporations that are exploiting these countries. i think the situation we have today calls for a new ethic, and calls for these multinationals that are plundering countries, not just in the middle east, but in latin america, africa and so on, to change their methods and finally settle accounts. (the speaker agreed to accept the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8)).
answer to the question posed by raising the blue card the only answer i can give to this question is: i too support the idea of better coordination. it is not possible to leave everything to national governments, as it is clear that these governments have very different approaches. and the money also went to where they expected to be received more favorably and be exposed to less chance of that money being alienated. so, coordination is required.
bosnia and herzegovina is slipping out of our hands. the country is in political paralysis, the political elites are not following through on their promises to deliver on europe's reforms. the consequences are borne by the citizens, i'm afraid. the report by mrs pack reflects the situation in the country, but i do not agree with her radical proposal to exclude bosnia and herzegovina from the council of europe. it's not going to advance. the fact is that the country is sinking from one political crisis to another, and the situation needs to change radically. i want the country to become a member of the union. i want us to help her. provocative rhetoric about dissolving the state is taking us in the wrong direction. bosnia and herzegovina can function as a community of different nations. we can be a role model, but politicians can't make promises with their hands full. with the accession of croatia to the union, bosnia and herzegovina will become a direct neighbour of the great european family. today, my colleagues in parliament and i have called on the irish presidency to make it easier for citizens of bosnia and herzegovina to cross the border into croatia with identity cards only. such a solution would greatly facilitate the lives of people along the border. we can't punish people for political failures. and politicians in bosnia and herzegovina must not punish their citizens for their own short-term interests. people deserve a safe country and prosperity more than ever.
mr president, in light of croatia’s accession to the eu, the council and the commission should enable bosnia and herzegovina to keep the current travel arrangements with croatia after 1 july 2013. bosnia and herzegovina’s citizens should be able to enter neighbouring croatia just with their id, as croatia is joining the eu and not the schengen area. we need to show more solidarity with bosnian citizens and try to help economic recovery and people-to-people contacts whenever possible. at the same time, i need to speak out against the rapporteur’s amendment no 7, which calls on the council of europe to suspend bosnia’s membership of that organisation. we need to facilitate constitutional changes in bosnia, not further isolate the country by somehow identifying it with belarus, the only european country which is not a member of the council of europe. i have to say to the rapporteur, ‘doris, you went too far’. we should discuss such a drastic amendment in the committee on foreign affairs first. we did not. we need to reach out to bosnian citizens. we should definitely not cancel the ipa funds for the country, which does not have the constitutional means to take its fate into its own hands.
mr president, it is high time that macedonian leaders woke up to the fact that unblocking the integration process of the country rests almost solely upon them. they need to do their utmost to secure a european future for their country by reaching a compromise on the name issue with greece. endless stories about the ancient past will not make macedonians’ lives better now or in the future. macedonia’s first neighbours, serbia and kosovo, reached a historic deal in april which set the foundations for the normalisation of their relations. prime ministers dačić and thaçi did not dodge their responsibility in the direct high-level talks. prime minister gruevski and his greek interlocutors have a lot to learn from this episode. macedonia badly needs to continue its euro-atlantic integration process in order to kick-start economic recovery and regain the trust of foreign investors. the most pressing concerns in the country are the alarming state of media freedom and democratic dialogue between the ruling coalition and the opposition. at the same time, macedonian leaders need to invest much more in improving inter-ethnic relations in the country, as the last helsinki report indicates that the authorities might be involved in a cover-up of the rising number of crimes inspired by ethnic or religious hatred.
question asked by raising the blue card. we have two options: either we wait for things to sort themselves out, and they haven't sorted themselves out for seven years, or we call on both sides, on both prime ministers, to reach an agreement, a compromise, and follow the example of serbia and kosovo and take the whole region into the future. from the past, from antiquity, to the future. do we agree on that or not? will we call on mr. gruevski to do everything in his power to achieve a breakthrough, progress and relief for macedonia and all its neighbors?
first, the european commission report presents the facts about macedonia. secondly, these facts speak in favour of macedonia, and thirdly, these facts must be the basis for the european union's decision to formally open accession negotiations. do we have any other options? i'm sure, dear colleagues, that you don't. we are also responsible for the reputation of the european institutions and because bad decisions lead to a decline in the reputation of the european union. we also have to ask ourselves how the european-minded citizens of macedonia feel when for seven years they have been getting promises from the european union, and when the time comes to make a decision, the european union does not. the government of macedonia is successfully implementing its reform programme and also fulfilling the copenhagen criteria for membership of the european union. this is a prosperous country that doesn't beg for favors. by the way, it has the lowest public debt in europe. the opening of accession negotiations is not only necessary for macedonia, but also for the wider region and also for the european union. lasting peace in the balkans will only be possible on the basis of regional reconciliation, only in a united europe. i would also remind you that the european commission has also adopted a strategy according to which bilateral issues must not be allowed to burden the accession process. once again, the credibility and credibility of the european institutions are being tested at this point.
i think that today's debate has revealed the beauty and the whole complexity of the issue of regional development and macro-regional strategies when it comes to areas such as the alps. i agree with mr cofferati's description of the wealth of the alps. the alps are certainly not only a treasure trove of potential economic development, but also of existing cultural and natural assets and attractions. the alps are certainly one of europe's greatest development potential when it comes to tourism, especially the influx of tourists from other parts of the world. i would like to emphasise that the people living in the alpine regions of different countries have long since found a way to communicate with each other, to connect, and to find the instruments for interacting with each other. it is good that we will support them in advance with the common european policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. how fair and well do the legal systems in our countries work? it is clear that they are inefficient and slow, and above all, that they do not enjoy the confidence of our citizens. we have alarming data to prove it. if i limit myself to corruption, we lose about 120 billion euros a year. the financial crisis has opened up opportunities for organised crime networks to make even greater profits. if only some of the money they stole was invested in job creation, we would have gotten out of the crisis a long time ago. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office is of particular importance in the fight against tax fraud and evasion. corruption is a drag on investment and economic growth, it reduces trust in institutions, so we propose at least a five-year ban on candidates running for and holding public office at all levels for individuals, condemned corruption, increased transparency of political party funding, the establishment of blacklists of companies involved in corruption, and the abolition of banking secrecy. it is urgent that we strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. with our recommendations to governments tomorrow, we will send a very clear message that the european parliament is seriously committed to the fight against corruption, organised crime and money laundering. only by taking strong action will we preserve our democratic, legal and social states and begin to rebuild the lost trust of our citizens.
a month ago, in the european parliament, in plenary, we endorsed my report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, where we committed ourselves to stopping as soon as possible the flow of money in europe, which is actually lost in the amount of a trillion euros every year. i would like to welcome today's report, which puts additional pressure not only on the fight against tax fraud but also on the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. but i would like to mention one point in particular, which has been mentioned several times today, namely the problem of tax havens, which are directly linked to the co-financing of money laundering schemes worldwide, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that we really need a european solution and a truly european challenge and a european strategy. this parliament has already done something about tax havens: we have agreed on a definition and we have agreed on sanctions for jurisdictions that end up on the list of tax havens. i hope that the commission will continue to respect and acknowledge our efforts.
the complete lack of effective management of social policies by the european union in the last years of the crisis has brought us to the point where social exclusion, inequality, poverty and unemployment have become a kind of european everyday reality. we're hearing about it almost routinely. it is clear today that the burden of the heavy austerity measures has hit the lowest strata of our society hardest and has crippled public social services. it is therefore urgent to ensure at european level that economic growth and recovery and social development go hand in hand in the future as soon as possible. i really agree with mrs berès that we need a clear overview of the social investment indicators, which should be equivalent to the other macroeconomic indicators that the european commission is reviewing. this parliament has repeatedly called on the commission and the council to make the fourth pillar of monetary policy, the social pillar, an institutional area in european politics.
mr president, in just over two weeks’ time the council is set to decide whether to open accession negotiations with serbia. the commission has recommended this step, while this house has approved the report on serbia – with an overwhelming majority – in which we call for a swift opening of accession talks. i would like to repeat this call today and urge all member states to be in favour of starting accession talks with serbia. it is well known that there are still member states that have some misgivings about serbia’s efforts to implement the agreement on normalisation of relations with kosovo, which was reached with the mediation of high representative/vice-president ashton. true, the realisation of this agreement has moved slower than expected. both sides need to speed up the implementation and make all the arrangements work on the ground. at the same time, we need to acknowledge that both serbia and kosovo have acted in good faith, with a clear aim to set aside their differences and work towards a common european future. the stability and prosperity of the western balkans depends largely on serbia’s progress towards membership of the eu. the start of accession talks with serbia would not only give a crucial boost for european forces in the country and the region, it would also help the badly needed economic recovery.
i too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report and to stress that in a democratic society of the 21st century, gender equality should be the word that no longer needs to be repeated in these reports. i therefore hope that the future of this report is somewhat more positive than that of many of the others we have adopted, especially from the femm committee. mobility is a matter of time, and i believe that the mobility of women in education is not only one of those issues that really belongs on the political agenda, not only of the european union but of all our member states, but it is important because it has great economic significance. women in the 21st century are better educated than men, and the problem is that all that higher education disappears over the years because we don't have a well-organized work-life balance. i think there's a lot of work to be done in this area, in these points. however, i would like to draw attention, as the rapporteur said, to the maternity leave directive, which has been in place since october 2010 and is not moving.
i would like to personally thank the rapporteur, mr vlasák, also as his shadow rapporteur, for having ensured that in the last few weeks parliament has responded very quickly and very effectively to the commission's work in the field of regional state aid, which is a very important area. in fact, we in the committee on regional development have consistently noted the need for more transparency, for a clearer link between state aid policy and other european policies, in particular between cohesion policy and regional policy, as you mentioned and as commissioner almunia has also said, especially in the light of the changes in regional state aid with the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. our economies need very clear rules for both state and regional aid during their recovery, and it is up to us, the european institutions, to ensure that they do, to tell them exactly what they need.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for this extremely important report, because our health depends to a large extent on our food intake. we are not aware of this in the first place, and we often pay more attention to what kind of gasoline we put in the car's tank than to what we or even our children will eat. and what will those groups who are vulnerable enjoy? surely, these include infants, children, and the elderly. and here it is also clear that it is up to us, the parliament, to come up with solutions that will allow for greater clarity and transparency in the food market as well. because labels that make specific health claims and have no scientific basis for doing so are often more than inappropriate. and that's why we have to advocate, and europe in general, to be able to relate to ourselves, including when it comes to food, and to be able to be more kind to vulnerable groups.
the accounting directive on the table today opens up an important point about tax evasion. it requires that, in the case of industries such as mining or oil and gas extraction, it introduces country-by-country reporting, of which we have already spoken a little today. such rules would, in essence, force multinationals operating in these industries to make part of their financial statements public. in the fight against tax evasion, this is definitely a step forward. a month ago, we adopted my report on combating tax fraud and tax havens here in parliament, and it was there that we advocated the introduction of country-by-country reporting for multinationals in all sectors. i would therefore like to call on the commission to draw up as soon as possible a new legislative document which will essentially establish the transparency of reporting across all member states, i.e. country by country reporting operating across borders, for all sectors.
i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for this much-needed report, because competitiveness is the foundation of the social market economy and the european parliament has played a great added value here. we have a political responsibility to create an environment in which the innovation and creativity of individuals and businesses can flourish, in which smes can enter not only the european market but also the global markets, a competitive environment in which knowledge institutions and centres of excellence can interconnect and, with greater power of knowledge, compete in the external market, i.e. not just with each other but with the outside world. in the final stage, however, it is the consumer who will benefit the most, especially in the food sector, since 14% of the costs are those which each consumer actually spends in this sector. and how improved communication with consumers can also help to improve competitiveness at a european level, which will be stronger in the world.
governments change, people stay. and i think that even when we talk about turkey, we have to talk about the people who live in turkey, and we have to treat the government in a different way. today, it seems to me that there have been some rather harsh words here, unnecessarily spoken, about turkey not belonging to europe, not having a european perspective and so on. i wonder if the colleagues who spoke about this realised that they were actually shaking hands with islamists who say the same thing, because they do not agree with our fundamental values, which are the european union. they are the european union for all those young people and the european perspective that they demonstrate in the market. i therefore think it is particularly important today that we send them encouragement from the european parliament, that we send them a signal that we support their aspirations for the modernisation and democratisation of turkey and also their european perspective.
mr president, commissioner piebalgs, mr lambrinidis, ms schaake’s report addresses one of the most pressing global issues, and i congratulate her for her outstanding work. media freedoms are an essential part of any open democratic society. as a union that rests on the principles of democracy and freedom, the eu must take a leading role in defending the independence and integrity of both traditional and online media. the report rightly points out that we cannot be at the forefront in this struggle unless the eu and all its member states live up to the highest standards of media freedoms. this is not the case today. we need to work hard on strengthening eu mechanisms and particularly the authority of the commission to react promptly and efficiently whenever there are clear signs that authorities or private interests endanger the independence of media. the most worrying cases among member states are hungary, due to the illegitimate constitutional changes, and greece, where the six years of protracted recession have pressed hard on journalists’ ability to report independently. today the authorities even shut down the public broadcaster. this is unbelievable! we cannot turn a blind eye to these deeply worrying trends. lastly, i particularly welcome the fact that the report urges the eu to play a more significant role with regard to media freedoms in enlargement and neighbourhood countries. macedonia poses a specific problem, as almost all media critical of the government have been shut one by one due to political or financial pressure. the most vivid proof of this trend is the fact that the country dropped more than 80 places on the reporters without borders press freedom index.
in writing. freedom of expression and a free press are among our most precious rights, an indispensable element of any democratic society and the foundation of human dignity. a free and pluralistic media must not be in the hands of politicians. preserving and strengthening the freedom and independence of the media worldwide is in our common interest. what happened yesterday in greece is a gross violation of human rights, a violation of freedom of expression and a manipulation of the people. the closure of public broadcasting is an attack on democracy, because the existence of a quality public service and its independence from politics are at the heart of any democratic society. we must not allow the economic crisis to force the public service into editorial dependence on politics and capital, exploitation of employees, compromising the quality of information and funding, let alone the fact that only politicians or individual ministers decide to close the public broadcaster without any open and democratic public debate. the commission has also provided information on the activities of the 'central intelligence unit' and the 'central intelligence unit' of the 'national security council' and 'national security council' of the 'national security council'. we must not allow ourselves to see a similar scenario in other countries after greece. we must therefore constantly stress the importance and role of free, pluralistic and independent media, especially public services, which must pay even greater attention to balanced coverage of politics and freedom of expression as a right and not a privilege.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mr mylán món, on his strategically oriented report, which is based on the conviction that the transatlantic partnership with the united states of america is facing new challenges. these challenges call for a more ambitious definition of transatlantic cooperation, which should go beyond the existing substantive and geographical frameworks with clear policy objectives, programmes and effective institutional follow-up. in this context, i welcome the intention to define future cooperation with a view to fundamental issues of global and regional political, economic, security and cultural development and to bring the countries of south america and the caribbean, africa as well as canada and mexico into a closer partnership. our aim is not to repeat the familiar euro-atlantic mantra, but to contribute to consolidating peace, further developing democracy, more sustainable economic development and good governance in the region and globally through a broader, inclusive partnership. trade and investment partnership is undoubtedly one of the priorities.
i want to thank everyone who has contributed to this extremely important file, because today, information is the most valuable thing we have. with information, we can create new jobs. and the young people who were born with the internet, who were born in the digital age, with this openness, they will be able to develop new services, they will be able to make those services that are today within the public sector, perhaps, be able to be implemented outside, so that we will also make the public sector more competitive. and we will have new jobs and, above all, in europe we will be able to have new knowledge in one place and thus become more competitive with the wider world.
question asked by raising the blue card. mr cashman, as i recall, we had a very serious discussion in the epp about this report and mr mitchell is also very active, so i don't know if i misunderstood your criticism. but my question is, how would you use education to save a part of the world from poverty? how would this education and knowledge bring people closer together?
the social and labour standards we have established in the european union are one of the fundamental values we have within the eu. we must always ensure that international conventions do not lower the general level of protection at work, even when it concerns our seafarers. i believe that this is what we have achieved by amending the directive on port state inspection and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs simpson, who has done an excellent job. as i come from koper, a slovenian port city, i believe that by taking a transparent approach to shipping and the maritime economy, we can improve the attractiveness of the maritime profession and thus create new jobs. i would like to invite my country, which has not yet done so, to not only sign but also ratify the convention as soon as possible.
it is constantly repeated in this chamber that the mff is an instrument to boost growth, employment and investment in the european union. i'm sorry, but i can't agree to a reduced budget and i don't support it. but i believe that in these times, it's also the best we can do. i am counting on the great multiplier effect that european funds have in all projects financed with european money. increasing flexibility and transferring funds between years and between programme items will, in my view, allow us to use european funds more efficiently in the future. but i would really like to give my full support to the youth unemployment fund, especially in one respect: because i believe that we have finally realised that youth unemployment is not just a problem of individual member states, but a european problem, where we need european funds, european money.
such discussions can be useful if they clarify the situation in the member states. we see that the transitional post-communist countries are particularly vulnerable. they are threatened by growing monopolies, crises, political extremism, euroscepticism and populism. instead of the democratic parties coming together, especially us and the socialists, and working together to ensure a democratic future, the socialists are taking advantage of this situation to overthrow the centre-right governments. the bulgarian story is similar to the slovenian one. let's look at a pattern: first, months ago, large demonstrations with elements of violence and populist demands, a successful centre-right government falling without an election, a left-wing government being formed, and even a former prime minister being prosecuted. the paradox is that both the gerb and sds, my client, are the main actors in the fight against corruption in their countries. in short, the situation in the region is certainly not conducive to the future of european democracy and the rule of law.
on behalf of the s&d group. i wanted to comment on this issue mainly in the name of solidarity. the floods that literally paralysed six member states a few weeks ago unfortunately caused human casualties in addition to material damage, which we have not mentioned today. when slovenia was hit by severe floods and devastating floods, the citizens of my country expected swift help from the solidarity fund, and so did all those affected a few weeks ago. in an accident, i think the key is to react quickly. and as my colleague from the epp just said, we need to do everything we can to make things happen quickly, because people need help right away. what i expect from the commission, and the commissioner herself has said this, is a more important and active role in increasing the capacity to prevent recurrence of disasters and a good disaster response strategy and flood infrastructure.
of all the natural disasters that have struck europe, floods have been the most devastating. over 200 have occurred in the past decade, causing over 50 billion dollars in damage. so it was in my home country, slovenia, last year, and unfortunately this year in many countries in the heart of europe. what happens then? people are often left quite alone when the water runs out. when the water runs out, that's when the waiting begins, which is long and too long. and faster than water and flood, today, only euroscepticism remains. and euroscepticism is fuelled by the very slowness of bureaucracy. and here people are losing faith in european institutions, losing faith that we are not alone in the disaster. then let's hurry this up.
after months of heated debate and negotiations, let me first thank my colleague, mrs anna podimat, for her successful work in the econ committee and for the compromise amendments that have succeeded in dispelling all doubts about the positive effects of the financial transaction tax on european economies and on economic growth in the european union. a new impetus to accelerate growth, reduce the risks of future systemic crises, transform the financial sector and better finance the real economy are goals that i believe we all want to achieve. and i think the introduction of dft does just that. the main message of the financial transaction tax, which european social democrats have been repeating for several years, is that the burden of the crisis needs to be shared not only between taxpayers but also with the banking sector. and that's what the financial transaction tax does.
the fight against tax fraud and tax havens has finally turned from political promises to concrete actions in recent months. at the end of last year, the commission drew up a list of measures on how to tackle tax fraud and tax havens. and here in the european parliament, we have completed this list by adding a special chapter that deals only with tax havens. the irish presidency has indeed been very much involved in these issues and these issues, and i would like to know how the lithuanian presidency views these issues and whether it intends to continue to fight on these issues. i mean, in parliament we have... i mean, the member states have already agreed at the last council that they will... on the implementation of the savings directive and on the quick reaction mechanism for vat fraud. we have european fatco on the table, we have the directive on the regulation of anti-money laundering, all of these things are being discussed. so i'm really curious what lithuania is planning to do in the next six months.
in writing. − i am in favour of introducing new rules governing investigations by the eu’s anti-fraud office (olaf). i support the revised olaf regulation, but with a strong supervisory committee. with our vote, olaf’s efficiency in investigations, and the protection of the individual’s fundamental rights, will both be enhanced. the ultimate goal is to improve protection of european taxpayers’ money, which i always strongly support.
in writing. − investors in collective investment schemes are facing uneven levels of protection in different jurisdictions. the proposal from the commission aims to amend directive 2009/65/ec on ucits as regards depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions. from our institution we asked that the variable component of a fund manager’s total salary cannot exceed the fixed component salary and that 50 % of the variable remuneration must be paid in units of the collective investment concerned. the report establishes that fund managers’ pay should always be aligned with the investors’ interests and the performance of the fund in question. i strongly support measures to address responsibility and fair remuneration regarding collective investment schemes.
i support the withdrawal of co2 permits, although i'm not the type of person who would blame every storm on carbon dioxide. i'm a realist who knows that without energy, we can't have light. but the systems we've put in place need to be supported, not undermined. i support an environment that will allow more health for europeans, because according to all the statistics, we are getting sicker and sicker. and i support technologies that are good for people and the environment. i support the withdrawal of the permits because it allows the system to function. and it also gives europe a great competitive advantage in the world. the system that allows new investment, that allows work for small and medium-sized enterprises and that creates jobs is the system of these permits. it's our system that supports healthy growth.
i opposed this commission proposal from the outset, because the ets was not a system designed to fill empty national budgets, because we will achieve environmental objectives, and because the withdrawal of permits means a higher energy cost, both for the economy and for citizens. i hope that the council and the european commission will take seriously both of the amendments which i myself supported in our vote today. the first is that the european commission can only propose and withdraw permits after carefully considering the impact on carbon leakage. the second amendment calls for the impact of the different support schemes for renewable energy sources on the carbon price in the ets to be taken seriously and for the european commission to propose mechanisms to avoid the overlapping of european legislation. and another important thing: we said that this withdrawal can only be done once.
in writing. − those of us who are aware of the importance of europe's development towards energy independence from carbon sources have achieved a key victory in reviving the european mechanism that promotes this. the objective of the measure is to revive the european emissions trading system (ets), which is designed to reduce dependence on carbon-based energy sources and is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change. the measure was necessary because carbon prices had fallen well below the levels estimated for the optimal functioning of the mechanism, due to an oversupply of carbon allowances on the market caused by the stagnation of the economy. on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, of which i am a member, the european parliament, including my vote, supported the plans to allow the commission to schedule the auction of allowances with a revised timetable. in this way, the european commission would remove 900 million allowances from the market in a one-off measure, thus raising prices to a level that allows the system to operate incentivisingly. the current crisis must not be used as an excuse to block change in the right direction, and by voting we have protected the environment, which is a european union issue, not just a matter for individual member states or individual industrial sectors, and thus safeguarded the functioning of the european mechanism that has already been adopted. otherwise, the creation of new jobs is also ensured by the companies which have an incentive to make the investment through this mechanism.
i am opposed to the introduction of a financial transaction tax in only 11 countries, which is why i voted against the report. the original idea was good, because the tax was supposed to be global. then, ambitions were narrowed to the european union, and because some member states opposed this, the next tax proposal was for the euro area only. this was again unacceptable and was now to apply only to the eleven member states of the euro area. i am opposed to this, because such a tax would only place a new burden on citizens and an economy in crisis. as an example, a financial services tax was recently introduced in slovenia, my country. and the banks have transferred it entirely to the customers. and finally, has any government announced how much the burden on taxpayers would be reduced if part of the financial transaction tax were used as own revenue for the european budget?
in writing. − this report is an additional input for the legislative proposal that the commission will present in autumn 2013, based on the high level expert group established in february 2012 and tasked with addressing the issues of reforms in the european banking sector. i am in favour of reducing complexity, enhancing competition, limiting interconnectedness between risky and commercial bank activities, improving corporate governance and enabling effective bank resolution mechanisms. our institution’s resolution is an essential part in gaining consensus for the broader banking sector reforms that are put in place at european level.
to all those who today are defending the decision of the greek government, i say that the closure of any public television station in any country, without any public debate, regardless of the circumstances, is an attack on democracy. and if this is a politically motivated decision, it must be in our common european interest to protest strongly against such a highly dangerous act. the greek government's decision to shut down the public broadcaster has shocked many in europe. but apparently not enough, as greek citizens still do not have access to reliable information through the public service. this is an unacceptable and precedent-setting example and i sincerely hope that after greece we will not see similar concepts in other countries, as this will not only endanger public services in the media sector but also many other public services. we cannot allow the economic crisis to force the public service into editorial dependence on politics and capital. we all know the need to save money, but public service is not just a media. it is a service that must be even more careful to report on politics in a balanced way and as such is more important in times of crisis than ever before. my friends, freedom of speech is a right, not a privilege. i therefore hope that greece will immediately provide a public service television that will work for the benefit of its citizens.
it is clear that the commission has problems, and we have problems in this parliament too, when we talk about concrete matters that are happening in the member states. we have fewer problems when we are talking about third countries and non-member countries. especially when it comes to matters of public interest and of course human rights and the rule of law. i think that the move of the greek government when it came to public radio and television was a very crude intervention that simply cannot be justified by the economic crisis. the public service broadcaster must be accountable to the public interest, as our chair of the committee on culture, the colleague who spoke before me, has so well described. i think it is simply that the commission has reacted too weakly to this phenomenon and to this intervention, too afraid to open up the political dimension of the problem. this is a political problem and the commission has a political mandate.
the union has high standards of information for the public compared to many other countries. a prerequisite for a functioning democracy is fair, plural and timely information for citizens. unfortunately, this standard is still not reached in many member states. the greeks also have a right to such information, and the greeks also need efficient, professional, well-functioning public broadcasting. but they also have the right and the duty to make it work themselves. the people of greece know that their public broadcasting system is too big, that there are irregularities, that even the people who are paid do not go to work. the lack of interest is what makes the show so bad, and the ratings are so low. therefore, i understand the assessment of the greek government that greek taxpayers' money and external aid should be spent more efficiently, but i expect it to conduct the procedure in accordance with the greek legal order. let me conclude by making a clear statement: i am in favour of public broadcasting in general, not just in greece, and public service must be of high quality and efficient. public television cannot be public because it receives public money. its programming design and programming must reflect the public interest and not the interests of advertisers.
i'm upset about an incident that happened today as this snowball rolls in, caused by this whole wiretapping scandal. i think that something absolutely unacceptable has happened to the president of our friendly country of bolivia on european soil, something that should be seriously considered. this is the consequence, this is the next phase of the scandal we're talking about today. i think it's right to point out that such things, such brutal and primitive, the overthrow of all norms of international law and customary decency, that this should not be happening on european soil and should actually be a shame for all the countries that participated in this farce.
thank you to the rapporteurs for an extremely interesting and important report. the digital single market will, in the first place, enable greater mobility for smes. and, of course, it will also reduce their operating costs. it is important, however, that there are also cost reductions in public institutions and in the public sector, and thus also tax reductions, in the final stage, for taxpayers. the single market will support cross-border treatment of patients as well as distance learning, especially for the elderly. because it is imperative that older people learn about the use of digital tools more widely, because fortunately for young people, these skills are already in their cradle. and then there's the safety. it is also essential to instill confidence in digital tools and systems for the security and privacy of europeans and europeans.
i use social networks a lot to communicate with citizens, and they are an important source of independent information for me on how people evaluate our work. and this time i asked them for 112. i was surprised myself, for i had never received such a massive response. and i have a feeling that people in slovenia, that is, in the country where i live, know this number very well. they also wrote me about their experiences with it and that they are very good. they're very sympathetic to our cooperation. i therefore join many of my colleagues in calling on the commission to draw up an action plan containing measures to improve the use of the number 112. i think it's particularly important to raise awareness, then add caller location information, and then make the number available to people with special needs. but it is also very important to make multilingualism possible, because it is the diversity and the treasure of the european union and must not limit our common security.
i would like to congratulate my colleague on the committee on culture, petri kammerevert, because her report deals with a subject which will be of increasing importance in the coming years. television, among all media, has a particularly strong suggestive power and, as such, a great social significance. the current audiovisual directive clearly defines the tasks of ordinary television. but we also have to think long-term. in the future, the technology that will become increasingly popular is the combination of television and the internet. increasingly, the power will be held by the manufacturers of these new devices and the operators of the portals through which users will access media content. it is therefore important to prepare today for the changes to come, including in the case of so-called connected television, in order to protect the principles of diversity, accessibility, non-discrimination and integrity of content, as well as the protection of personal data. we also need to ensure that devices are compatible with other devices to avoid monopolies.
i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a very sensitive and very important report which will decide the future visa policy of the european union and which is important for our relations with european governments. with the proposal as it is on the table, and as you have heard, it has legal reservations, we in the european parliament are giving up very important powers which we have in the co-decision procedure on visa policy and which our institution has under the lisbon treaty. if the text this week is as it was adopted, we will seriously jeopardise our visa policy and our neighbourhood policy and also undermine the credibility of our institution, so on behalf of the socialist and democratic political group i propose a delay to give us time to come to a better agreement.
the rapporteur. − first of all, i would like to thank all my shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation we have had on this report over the past months. the benefits of energy efficiency have long been recognised as being at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in europe, we are currently facing a major challenge to meet the target of reducing our total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. this is why i believe that policies that promote energy efficiency, such as cohesion policy, can and should play a more prominent role. with my report, i want to highlight once again the importance of improving energy efficiency, which can make a decisive contribution to european competitiveness, green growth and new jobs with high added value. at the same time, investments in energy efficiency represent an opportunity in the fight against the economic crisis and adverse climate change. an analysis of the implementation of energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy so far has shown that the main negative factors remain insufficient information, financial incentives, lack of visibility of energy efficiency measures and, to some extent, inadequate implementation of the legislation in force. it is therefore clear that in the current 2007-2013 programming period, the problems are more practical than legislative. in the light of the already agreed changes to the new legislative framework for cohesion policy 2014-2020, we have therefore put forward a number of suggestions in the report on how to tackle energy efficiency in the next seven-year financial framework. cohesion policy is one of the eu's main levers for getting the european economy back on track as soon as possible and achieving the 2020 energy efficiency target. it is essential that member states understand the use of european energy efficiency funds as an investment potential and not as a cost. in particular, the upcoming dedicated allocation of european regional development fund funds will allow for the creation of stable, long-term programmes for energy efficiency improvements. in the light of the difficult recovery from the economic and financial crisis and the limited budgetary capacity of local authorities, we must ensure that local and regional authorities have easier access to european funds for this purpose over the next seven years. the involvement of all levels of governance in the implementation of energy efficiency policy is crucial and in the future more will need to be done to ensure that national, regional and local strategies and plans in the areas of energy efficiency, cohesion and the environment are better aligned with the objectives of the european union, which has not been the case until now. the austerity measures have made it very difficult for member states to provide the necessary financial resources to co-finance cohesion policy programmes related to this theme. it is therefore essential that countries seek out and exploit new innovative financial instruments in the future. i believe that a successful approach to raising private capital is through public-private partnerships, in the innovation diffusion model and through grants and financial instruments. the european commission is already promoting new innovative financial instruments, but it is crucial that it also presents concrete proposals at this point and ensures the use of these instruments through timely implementation and legal clarity. we also need to ensure that when building and renovating social housing, we make sure that we address energy poverty in concrete ways. this is one of the points i have made particularly prominent in my report.
on behalf of the s&d group. i am very disappointed that we are discussing today a draft report which will outline the future visa policy of the union, but at the same time renounce the powers which the european parliament has in the codecision procedure when it comes to the most sensitive issue, that is the freedom of movement of europeans. we have been subject to pressure, inflexibility and even blackmail from the council in the negotiations, and i cannot understand why the rapporteur, mr de mera, with whom we have worked very well, decided at the last minute to renounce the delegated act, the powers of the european parliament, when it comes to the introduction of a temporary freezing mechanism for the visa-free regime. we are at very serious risk of european governments using such a mechanism as a political tool to score domestic political points against immigrants from neighboring countries. i am thinking in particular of the citizens of the western balkans, for whom visa waiver was a historic step on the road to the union. we will seriously jeopardise not only the future of visa policy but also our neighbourhood policy. who's to say that the mechanism is a last resort? there have been attempts for a long time to reinstate visas for one or more western balkan countries. we are not going to allow this blow to be delivered to countries to which we are promising a clear european perspective. without keeping the safeguards of democratic control on our institution, our european parliament? the same applies to the reciprocity mechanism. our legal services are questioning both agreements. the first is the abovementioned waiver of competence, the second is the combination of delegated and implementing acts, as the commissioner has mentioned. we are threatened with a european commission action before the european court of justice. we have heard that the commission has mixed reactions, feelings. to all those who believe that the mechanism will help mutual visa waivers for example between canada and the czech republic i want to say that this will not happen. in a leaked statement, european governments guaranteed that they would prioritise relations with strategic partners over any decision. do you really think the whole of the european union would reintroduce visas for citizens of the united states or canada if they continue to require visas for the other six countries of the european union? this, my friends, is a political tool that will never be activated! colleagues and colleagues! i call on you to vote against the report this week and thereby make it possible to protect the european parliament's powers under the lisbon treaty in the area of visa policy in the second round, in the second reading. these are the most sensitive issues affecting our citizens, the most tangible freedom of movement that our europeans enjoy today, the foundation of european integration. and they are particularly relevant to young people, who are the most mobile and already the least bright-eyed. the agreement we are now facing is bad, it is bad for our citizens, it is bad for our relations with the council of the european union, it is bad for the whole of the european union and our neighbourhood. we have an enormous responsibility when we vote this thursday. we will not strengthen visa policy in the european union in this way, but we will jeopardise it and the freedom of movement of our citizens. (the president replied to the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you, mr obermayr, for giving me this opportunity to give you a very specific answer. i am very familiar with the data from the latest frontex report on what is happening at the borders of the european union. you're lucky to come from the country with the least problems. there are no immigrants from the western balkans in austria. austria has put in place a wonderful system. it has placed all western balkan countries in the process of acceding to the european union on the list of safe countries of origin. there are problems of immigrants from the western balkans coming into the european union, but the numbers have dropped dramatically and the countries, the governments in the western balkans have taken all the necessary steps to prevent the arrival of fake asylum seekers. i think we have to think about solidarity and look for other ways. to find ways of letting countries, especially when i speak of our neighbourhood, move forward towards the european union, and ourselves helping them along the way. these are very difficult life stories, sir.
i congratulate the reporter and the reporter for the good news. i too am glad that youth unemployment has been put on the agenda of this plenary. my starting point is that the high youth unemployment rate is not so much the fault of the crisis, nor of the economic system, nor of the labour market that does not accept young people. the eu's intervention measures, i.e. the various employment programmes and mechanisms, are excellent and necessary, but they are not sufficient if they do not touch on the essence of the problem, and the essence of the problem lies in education and training. both reports under discussion are important guidelines for tackling this problem. but i would also like to mention another report that is being prepared, the so-called education and training rethink report, which also highlights the effectiveness of education systems. schools must deliver educational outcomes that are acceptable to society. in essence, the victims of ineffective education and training systems are the young themselves. schools do not prepare them adequately for life and work, so-called stem competencies (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) are neglected, so on the one hand we have high youth unemployment, on the other hand we have two million jobs in the european union that we cannot fill because we do not have the appropriate profiles. in short, greater youth employability is beginning to be ensured in schools, which must adapt more closely to labour market demands, there is no turning back. the drawing of european funds from european programmes and measures must therefore go hand in hand with faster and more thorough reforms of school policies in the member states, which last year alone, mind you, did not take advantage of the 30 billion euro from the european social fund. we could use some of that money for education.
i thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur for the necessary message, but i wonder how we motivate young people to take greater risks. increased risk to self-employment and increased risk to entrepreneurship, because of the decline of occupations or jobs that have been permanent. and so it is necessary to look, through innovative ideas and courage, at the perspective that an ageing population is also a challenge for young people and their jobs, that the digitalisation of europe is a challenge for young people, for this internet generation, and last but not least, food and land, which in crisis is still important and will be important for all of us. so, the courage, the culture, the motivation of the young.
thank you very much and congratulations to the rapporteur, to my colleague mrs corazza and to commissioner barnier. at a time of high unemployment in europe, it is more difficult to promote the provision of services in the internal single market. but it is also clear that the crisis is one that requires, in itself, the consideration of solutions that have been adopted but not taken into account in the past. the growth momentum in most eu countries and the new jobs created are also promising. they hope that with a single market in services in europe, we will be less competitive with each other and more competitive with others, like brazil, like china, like india. access to the common single market for smes and the self-employed is also a major challenge. what is taken for granted by the big guys may be unattainable by the little guys. digitalisation itself creates, to some extent, a single market in services, in distance services. unfortunately, sometimes even suspicious ones when it comes to selling counterfeit products or even medicines. the internal market for conventional and distance services will become stronger with the introduction of legislation and more uniform standards. simplified administrative procedures also provide the basis for e-commerce, for e-services, especially for young people, for the internet generation. the ageing population also offers opportunities for the internal market, home services, home services and remote services. while we are fighting to save 27 million unemployed europeans, while we are fighting to save five million young people, the single market in services is certainly one of the most important solutions.
in writing. − the commission has proposed enhancing incentives for the best performing biofuels, thereby improving the greenhouse gas savings for the overall biofuel mix used in the eu by 2020 compared to fossil fuels. i am in favour of reporting on iluc factors, although giving the industry enough time to adapt. i would welcome iluc being taken into account when importing.
i would also like to join all those who have commended mrs ashton for her wise leadership and balanced presentation of the european union's positions, and in particular for highlighting the priority of a political solution. we have actually been prolonging the war in syria ourselves, because we did not develop in time the concept of a political solution that would be acceptable to all parties. the very use of chemical weapons has triggered the threat of military intervention, a legitimate threat, i would say, as long as it is in the function of finding a political solution. i think the european union needs to continue to play an active role, to use more of the knowledge that we have at our disposal, and i also think that any political solution will have to involve all the protagonists of the war in syria.
russia has recently returned through the syrian problem, i would say through the main door, into international politics. she has proven herself to be a skilled diplomat with clear political interests. it also demonstrated that it has ambitions to expand its influence in areas it has lost. putting pressure on countries that want to join the european integration is certainly not a wise policy and is unacceptable to us because of the way russia is trying to do it, especially when it comes to ukraine. to become a major player again, russia must abandon the logic of spheres of interest. russia is putting pressure on armenia, where it has troops. this is a hindrance to the resolution of the nagorno-karabakh problem. by joining the russian free trade area, armenia will jeopardise the association agreement with the european union. we know moscow is also putting pressure on moldova and georgia. this is bad policy, which leads to division and russia to international isolation.
mr president, dear colleagues, i urge you once more to postpone this vote on the díaz de mera report, to give each of us a possibility to really know what is happening here. we are ready to adopt a reciprocity mechanism in the name of solidarity with the citizens of five member states, a mechanism which is illegal according to our legal service and to the chair of our own committee on legal affairs, mr lehne, and according to the commission, which formally stated in this plenary that it will challenge this in the courts. besides that, the council has in any case declared that it does not intend to use this mechanism in relation to the strategic partners. are we so naïve as to accept this game and in exchange give the council a suspension mechanism which will seriously harm our policy toward the western balkans and give away our prerogatives? by voting this report we are giving away parliament’s – meaning our citizens’ – powers for free and on a very important matter like visa policy, impacting people’s freedom to move, work and study. there is a lot of misinformation about this report and i urge you to postpone the vote.
in writing. − the turbulent financial developments in the member states have shown that the euro as a single currency cannot be strengthened by such different rules for the operation of banks - especially in terms of supervision, such weak coordination of economic policies and such different relationships between banks and politics. in a context of loose rules, we have seen how fragile the ec financial system is, even if a smaller member state is in trouble. we also look at how difficult and expensive treatment is. a single banking supervision is a key element on the way to a true banking union. this creates the possibility of systematically preventing the problematic banking within the same currency area, which is usually the result of a problematic policy. what does sovereignty do for us when the sovereign banking decisions of one country are shaking up the whole system or weakening the sovereignty of the whole? friendly banking must also be prevented at the lower levels. all of this must be done in a transparent manner and with a high degree of democratic control.
in writing. − the turbulent financial developments in the member states have shown that the euro as a single currency cannot be strengthened by such different rules for the operation of banks - especially in terms of supervision, such weak coordination of economic policies and such different relationships between banks and politics. in a context of loose rules, we have seen how fragile the ec financial system is, even if a smaller member state is in trouble. we also look at how difficult and expensive treatment is. a single banking supervision is a key element on the way to a true banking union. this creates the possibility of systematically preventing the problematic banking within the same currency area, which is usually the result of a problematic policy. what does sovereignty do for us when the sovereign banking decisions of one country are shaking up the whole system or weakening the sovereignty of the whole? friendly banking must also be prevented at the lower levels. all of this must be done in a transparent manner and with a high degree of democratic control.
in writing. − i have always supported, promoted and engaged actively in making europe a roaming free space. without roaming, artificial borders will disappear. competitive forces will allow for new technologies and services to flourish and will, of course, lower the bills for the same services for users. on the other hand this allows telecom operators to focus on the creation of new value adding services through increased competition.
in writing. − i strongly condemn the deterioration of human dignity in syria and especially the killing of civilians with chemical weapons. these acts cannot remain unanswered and the international community has a moral duty to react to protect the civilian population. on the other hand i support that the international community at large should define a political solution for syria by means of peaceful pressure and continue to provide strong humanitarian aid.
in writing. − egypt needs an inclusive and genuine process of national reconciliation, including all democratic, political and social forces coming together for egypt. the moderate components of the muslim brotherhood should keep on actively supporting and being part of the process of democratic transition, but it should refrain in the future from engaging in any form of violence and respect human rights and rule of law principles.
the current approach to reducing emissions in the union is problematic. these are mainly expressed through the energy system. let me mention two problems in energy. the first is that only subsidised investments are still being made, which is extremely problematic given that the internal market in electricity and gas is due to be dominated next year. the other problem, of course, is the high cost of energy. in shaping policies for 2030, we must not repeat the mistakes we made in climate and energy policy for 2020. we have to go back to square one. this was to reduce emissions by taking a market-based approach in the energy and industrial sectors, because this approach is also the most cost-effective. the ets must be stronger than subsidies. reducing emissions must be our primary objective, stronger than subsidies. so i am advocating for one clear, legally binding target to reduce emissions, taking into account, of course, international responsibility for climate change. i have unfortunately found that most of the scenarios presented by the european commission are essentially a continuation of the old policies. i am therefore particularly interested in asking commissioner hedegaard whether the european commission is prepared to move towards a more market-based approach. how did you do that? and does it advocate the definition of 'more targets for 2030'?
we're less than a month away from local elections in kosovo. today's meeting between kathy ashton and the presidents of serbia and kosovo may ease the election process, but the real problems remain in the campaign. serbia and kosovo are democratic societies with a multi-party political system, and voters are therefore entitled to run and vote for candidates on several lists, totalling 32 different local lists. belgrade's call for serbs in kosovo to vote for only one list, for a 'unified serb list', is not in the spirit of the brussels agreement and in practice represents a continuation of the policy of dividing the serb community in kosovo. political pluralism is the foundation of democracy, and one-party systems are a thing of the past. the essence of local elections is the possibility of choosing between different local lists.
mr. borg, thank you for keeping your word and introducing a directive for more health. mr. andriukaitis, chairman of the council, thank you for your clear and decisive words. thank you to linda mcavan, the reporter. it is crucial that we protect the young generation from tobacco. this is an eminent public health issue where the european union has some competence and must use it. this directive puts us on the side of life. we don't need any new evidence about the harmful effects of tobacco. less smoking means more health and more life. we will not solve the tobacco problem with sweet-smelling additives and other deceptive tricks. a sweet cigarette will still be a harmful cigarette, whether thin or thick. tobacco will be harmful even if presented as a pure fashion item. let us not be misled into debating the harmfulness or safety of individual additives. the key is to pay attention to the collective effects, to anything that is intended to promote smoking, and to try to limit its scope. in this spirit, i support the 75% above and the regulated approach to e-cigarettes as defined by karl heinz florenz. finally, i would like to thank the independent european and national ngos for their dedicated work for more health. health first!
after 12 years of application of the existing tobacco directive, smoking is still one of the main causes of premature death in the eu, claiming more than 700 000 lives a year, as we have heard many times in today's debate. but since the majority of new smokers are teenagers, especially girls, the tobacco industry has made a special effort to provide them with attractive packaging. flavors of menthol, chocolate, vanilla, and fruit are the first ways that young people are introduced to smoking and become addicted to it later on. the new directive will increase health warnings on cartons, regulate the composition, shape and size of cigarettes, and curb the tobacco industry's propaganda to try to win new addicts among young people. the e-cigarettes must be of high quality and not harmful to health, and i support a stricter authorisation procedure for this pharmaceutical product. taking my mandate seriously and as a champion of public health, especially the health of the youngest, i will act responsibly and also support the amendment of the tobacco directive.
legislation in this area is important and i support it. i have been informed on several occasions by both individuals and project promoters about the problems of this legislation. however, the proposals for amendments to the existing directive are primarily concerned with environmental requirements. some are good, but i must mention those that i do not agree with, because they do not seem to me to be viable, they represent an administrative burden on the economy and at the same time do not represent any gain for the environment. biodiversity and early stage studies in case of research have already been mentioned. the third thing that i think is important is that the new requirements require the project promoter to carry out an environmental development study even in the event that the project is not implemented. why would a potential investor do such a study? isn't that the job of other government agencies? the investor must carry out a pre- and post-project assessment, which shows the environmental impact of the project. and let me say, it's good to make sure that the public gets adequate and relevant information about the environmental impact of the project. it's the best way to protect the environment. but it's up to the professionals to decide and take responsibility. competent experts are essential and the member states should take care of the accreditation procedures themselves.
in writing. − i supported the new tobacco directive and i want it to reduce smoking in the eu. we should especially try to convince young people of this, since as many as 70% of smokers start before the age of 18. i'm afraid i doubt we used the right tools. i believe that visual and written warnings on tobacco product packages are not an effective measure to reduce smoking among young people. these are teenage rebels by nature and will reach for cigarettes regardless of the warnings of the 'adult world.' in my opinion, it is much more effective to constantly raise awareness among young people about the consequences of smoking and to implement projects that would change the value system of young people, where the value would be that a young person does not reach for a cigarette. but i also personally think that smoking is so bad that i would ban it for young people under 25.
in writing. - this directive puts us on the side of life. this is an eminent public health issue where the european union has competences to apply. no new evidence is needed on the harmfulness of tobacco, so it is clear that less smoking means better health and more life. we will not solve the tobacco problem with sweet-smelling additives and other deceptive tricks. a sweet cigarette will still be a harmful cigarette, whether thin or thick. tobacco will be harmful even if presented as a pure fashion item. the key is to pay attention to the collective effects, to anything that is intended to promote smoking, and to try to limit its reach. i support that 75% of cigarette packages are covered with warnings and regulated access to e-cigarettes as a health product, not a consumer product. i thank the european and national ngos for their dedicated work for more health.
in writing. − this report is the continuation of an emergency resolution passed by parliament in july 2012, condemning a case of forced abortion in china. once again, i strongly support the fact that our institution has a strong say in combating and criminalising selective abortion and defends the rights of the unborn child. i regret that the final resolution lost its force in mixed concepts around gender, sex, and sexual and reproductive health.
on behalf of the ppe group. in may 2008, the ljubljana process was launched, and at that time member states shared the belief that a common vision and effective management of the european research area was needed. according to the european commission's recently published report on the implementation of the era, much work remains to be done. the presidency, i.e. the council, would therefore like to know how the council will ensure that the implementation of public procurement for innovative products and services is accelerated. such rules are already in place but are not being implemented. i am also interested to know what is happening in the council to bring member states closer together in their national criteria so that the projects selected will actually support scientific excellence and cooperation with the economy. in addition to national resources, appropriate resources at european level are also crucial for the era to function effectively. i therefore ask the commission what action it will take to ensure that the second generation of article 185 initiatives - namely public-public partnerships - can follow up on the potential increased willingness of member states to contribute to the programme. how will it ensure that in this case we do not have to wait 7 years, or at least 3.5 years, for the mid-term review to ensure sufficient funding at eu level? finally, i would also like to express my disappointment that we have not done more to promote a genuine single research area in horizon 2020. the differences in the pay of researchers are, in my view, one of the key indicators of the fragmentation of this space. i therefore hope that the commission will, over the next seven years, take a determined approach to reducing these disparities with the instruments at its disposal, in order to ensure that researchers from all member states of the european union are treated as equally as possible.
the internal market is also important in the field of research, as jobs and growth will be the focus of europe. and without an internal market in research, we will have a hard time achieving these goals. of course, these objectives are oriented both towards the economy and, in particular, towards an ageing society. how can we today, without collaborative research, discover and confront diseases like alzheimer's or dementia? how can we cope with a disease like cancer? so all of these challenges require closer cooperation. in transferring knowledge to the economy, to entrepreneurship, it is also of great importance that we have specialised smes. and if we want to have specialization in corporations, then we also need specialized knowledge from the top down. we also have a missing piece from the research team. despite the fact that there are 27 million unemployed in europe, there may be some of them, and some of them are talented. and today, we're educating girls primarily in the sense that men and women are professions, that men and women are scientists, and that not everything is for women. i was wrong. today we must look for all the opportunities we can get from future women scientists and researchers, because in this we are still one step behind what is possible in europe. and as i heard in a song once, that knowledge... knowledge is a girl's best friend. diamonds will follow.
violence against women and domestic violence are among the most widespread and hidden forms of human rights violations, affecting millions of women across europe every year. the ratification of the council of europe convention is therefore essential for all women who have been, are or will be victims of violence. the protection of victims and their needs is all too often neglected, and member states must be encouraged to organise victim support services systematically. violence shapes women's role in society, affects their access to employment, their economic independence and their participation in public and political life. as long as women are still most at risk in the places where they are supposed to feel most secure - in their own homes - we cannot speak of a modern european society of equal opportunities. it is time for member states to wake up and ratify the convention, thus offering protection and support to women in the european union. i therefore welcome this debate today and look forward to future ratifications in the coming weeks.
in writing. the controversial directive requiring pilots to be on standby or on duty for up to 22 hours has caused a great deal of uproar among european pilots in recent weeks, who, until the last moment, before the construction of the strasbourg building and in the parliamentary corridors, shared their planes with the member of parliament calling for the directive to be rejected. the proposal to limit flight time to 11 hours, with pilots insisting that it be limited to 10 hours, also caused trouble. we would need more time, at least until the second plenary session in october. so i feel like we've been pushed to the wall at the last minute, take it or leave it. although the commission rejected the concerns of pilots that their working conditions would deteriorate, saying that all existing collective agreements, especially for pilots in large airlines, would remain unchanged, it would expect clearer results that would genuinely reduce the fatigue of pilots and crew. i really hope that happens.
replaces the author. − we must complete the internal energy market by the middle of next year. the member states have a lot of requirements to meet, and we also have to do our job at european level. thus, the rules in the remit regulation provide that the agency for the coordination of energy regulators, i.e. acer, is to monitor and analyse developments in the electricity and gas markets, identify potential breaches of law, misuse of inside information and other irregularities. the remit regulation also sought to ensure close cooperation between acer and national administrations and other market players. in order to carry out these tasks, acer needs adequate financial resources and human resources. the amount of the budget should reflect the size of the european energy market, as well as the high level of confidence in acer and the importance we attached to the agency when adopting the remit regulation. in 2012, the agency received an appropriate level of resources and also performed all tasks. and this year's budget is 3 million euros short. the problem is exacerbated by the fact that the european commission has allocated almost eur 5 million less in its 2014 budget proposal than the agency needs to ensure the smooth implementation of the remit regulation. to make matters worse, the budget does not provide for any additional human resources, although the agency estimates that as many as 35 new jobs would be needed. it therefore follows from the 2013 and 2014 budgets that acer will not be able to purchase the demanding software and, even if it could, would not have the staff to carry out the tasks. this is extremely worrying. according to the information received by the committee, the current draft budget does not provide for the implementation of the important tasks of the agency, which were added to the remit regulation by the amendments agreed between the council and the european parliament. to name a few: the creation of a european register of energy market players, the increased scope of the agency's market monitoring tasks, the establishment of close links with large organised markets, the publication of data by acer and the provision of a non-commercially sensitive trader database for scientific purposes, closer cooperation with other institutions, in particular the esmo and the financial markets supervisory authority. the agency's representatives expressed to the members of the itre committee their concern about the ability to carry out their tasks in the current circumstances. if acer is unable to carry out its tasks properly, the electricity and gas markets are threatened by the law of the wild west. there will be no one to collect data, analyse it and send it to national authorities to prevent abuse and fraud. what effect this will have on the consumer, i can only guess. however, we all know that failure to implement the provisions of the remit regulation would jeopardise the integrity and transparency of our electricity and gas markets and thus the inability to ensure that energy prices are determined by market supply and demand. i therefore turn to the european commission and ask, in addition to the written questions already put, how serious the intention is to complete the internal market in electricity and gas next year. do you support amending the 2013 budget to allow the agency to purchase the appropriate equipment? in the event of a budget amendment for 2013, how does the european commission envisage that acer will be able to purchase equipment by the end of this year, in such a short time? and is the european commission prepared to commit itself to a serious budget for 2014 that does not jeopardise the proper functioning of the internal market? ladies and gentlemen, some budget cuts may do more harm than good. one of these is the limitations of acer. in the itre committee, we are convinced that an appropriate level of funding for acer is crucial to ensure that the european policies adopted work properly. after all, we are talking about fair treatment and the welfare of european consumers.
if we are serious about the internal market, then the energy market is certainly one of the pillars. and considering that acer is one of the few european agencies that is positioned in slovenia, i can tell you that the inaction of the european institution also increases euroscepticism. and i find it hard to understand that the board and the commission have a 50% difference in their view of how much money is needed and how many staff are needed. in my experience in economics, i've never encountered such large deviations. so i'm really wondering - and now i'm a little relieved to hear your answer - if this agency is even serious about working. do we really want to control the energy market in europe and, of course, have more reasonable prices for consumers? if this is the case, then the €200 billion planned for the next 10 years for investment in energy infrastructure is probably the equivalent of what acer costs. the promill of promill. and i really hope that this issue will start to play its part and that it will also create some new jobs in the environment, which is of great importance today, during the crisis, and reduce the euroscepticism that you know is already so prevalent everywhere today.
today we are practically improving the regulatory framework for the recognition of professional qualifications, adapting it to the times and introducing some innovations such as the european professional card. in essence, we want to make the right to free movement within the european union even more realistic by enabling greater labour and learning mobility through more effective recognition of work experience, skills, knowledge and competences. but it's another one of the formal mechanisms that we take from the top down. it is up to the member states, and not just to relax their rules on the recognition of professional qualifications. what we all need, above all, is more comparable educational outcomes. comparable educational outcomes. this requires member states to accelerate education reforms, the copenhagen and bologna processes, and to implement the european qualifications framework and other mechanisms as soon as possible. because, again, if there are no comparable educational outcomes, we do more harm than good by acknowledging them.
in writing. − the reform concerns modernisation of the current professional qualifications directive, and not a completely new directive. it also introduces new features like the european professional card. i support the change, as it will become much easier for regulated professionals to move from state to state.
in writing. − an eu-china investment deal must substantially improve eu firmsʼ position in the chinese market, ensuring preconditions for fair competition between the eu and china. negotiations should be overseen by parliament and the investment policy should take into account the principles and objectives of the unionʼs external action, including human rights.
in writing. − taiwan is an important economic and commercial entity and the launch of relations should be based on economic reasons as a starting point. i support the fact that starting talks should not be interlinked with an assessment of relations between the eu and the peopleʼs republic of china.
i too am somewhat sorry that today's debate is about political extremism on the right. this debate is not balanced. so we'd be talking about the one on the right and the one on the left. it would be right for the democrats to reject both. and so we turn a blind eye and we don't see some of the powerful political parties and movements, also on the left, also in the member states of the european union. the common denominator between the two extremes is that they threaten the already fragile democracy of the european union. in many countries. that they're impatient. in practice, they are anti-globalist and also anti-european or at least eurosceptic. respected. we all know that europe has been experiencing a rise in extremism over the last year, which coincides with the crisis. so the democratic political arc, from left to right, has a responsible task to come together and to manage europe before the cataclysm that ravaged it in the 20th century. the threshold of tolerance for extremism should be as low as possible or even zero, especially if it is also shared by certain authorities and the dominant media. and since we also have to sweep our own doorstep, we can say that this happens often in my country too. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i cannot quote because i have nowhere to read from, but in europe there are also far-left extremist movements and also parties that use the same methods as, say, far-right extremist hate speech, street violence, overthrowing democratically elected policies, as happened in my country and the like, no. and there are also strong, far-left political parties in europe that also have a lot of influence. so, i just want to say something. there is both left and right extremism, and democrats should reject both.
on behalf of the s&d group. a year ago, we passed a resolution demanding answers from european governments regarding the alleged detention and ill-treatment of american prisoners in the cia's covert program. the truth is that we have not yet reached the bottom, because no country, neither the european commission nor the council, has really followed the call of this house. no one has yet taken responsibility for these shameful and most serious human rights violations in post-war european history. governments are avoiding cooperation. there are no independent investigations, and new facts are coming to light. for years we have been saying in this parliament that europe must not sweep its own mistakes under the carpet. we have had this happen to us, and it is happening to us again in a new human tragedy off the island of lampedusa, where, according to the latest figures, nearly 300 syrian refugees have died. europe must be a model for the protection of human rights. europeans insist that we are the most advanced part of the world, but with such ignorance, when we allow such serious violations to happen in front of our eyes, we lose our reputation, our credibility, especially of our citizens. and how can we demand it of others? how many innocent people must die, how many lives must be lost before europe wakes up to take responsibility. today, after a year, we are again talking here in the temple of democracy about a severe encroachment on the sovereignty of states, about violations of human rights and freedoms, including the detention of american prisoners, torture and other ill-treatment, violations of the principle of non-refoulement and enforced disappearance of individuals. every day, new discoveries and facts come to light confirming that european governments have collaborated with the united states and the cia in covert programs. the resolution therefore explicitly calls on the council presidency lithuania to place the debate on alleged european responsibility for these serious violations on the agenda of the relevant ministerial meetings. we note with disappointment that eight union countries have still not responded to the united nations letter on secret prison programmes in the light of the fight against terrorism. the interference of foreign security and intelligence services in the affairs of sovereign member states of the union must not be repeated, although unfortunately we are witnessing that this is far from the case. the prism affair, the nsa, the wiretaps are taking a deep toll on the trust and patience of europeans. like european governments, the commission has not responded satisfactorily to our resolution of a year ago on alleged human rights violations on european soil. i therefore expect, my dear colleague, the honourable commissioner, the representative of the council, that we will give our full support to the resolution tomorrow in the european parliament, because we have a duty as the voice of the people to point out these violations and irregularities at all times. this is our common european responsibility. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i agree with you that the title of this resolution is alleged detentions and transport. but the fact is that practically every day or every month through the media, through organizations, new facts are coming in every day. it is also a fact that no institution, including european governments, really responded to our calls years ago. that many investigations have been stopped or are not continuing, including in the presidency of the council, lithuania. so i think that until now no one has really got to the bottom of it and that it is our responsibility to point out these gross violations every time.
on behalf of the ppe group. the amendment of the battery directive brings great advances for the environment, health and end-users, and in particular added value for the innovative industry. do we realize how dependent our lives are on batteries? the battery is a resource that is often invisible to our eyes. batteries are what make our modern life possible, on the one hand. the most technologically advanced is wireless. on the other hand, in some cases it can be harmful to your health. the european commission was invited to review and renew the existing directive in order to update it in the light of new technological developments and in the light of the environmental and health impacts. the commission proposal contained a ban on the use of nickel-cadmium in batteries for cordless power tools. sixteen million power tools are sold every year, but 40 percent of those tools are wireless. of course, cadmium has some adverse health effects. it is also released into the environment through improper handling of waste portable batteries. we in the european parliament have considerably improved this proposal and, after lengthy negotiations, have endorsed it. innovation will ensure the safety of our citizens and at the same time provide a transition period for the industry to adapt and preserve jobs. nickel-cadmium batteries in hand tools are found in virtually every home. however, there is evidence that a large part of the industry is already producing and installing these batteries in europe with the new materials, lithium, so that the transition will be easier to manage. this is particularly true for smes. the new directive will also ban the use of cells in toys, which are particularly dangerous when they are in toys. another very important change in the directive is that we can remove the battery ourselves, which is a real innovation. i would like to thank the rapporteur, professor panajotov, for his expertise in the field of materials, which has contributed greatly to improving legislation and to compromise.
the question asked by raising the blue card. (introduction is not heard) ... and i think we need to be a little more self-critical. the aim of climate policy is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in europe we have the unfortunate fact that if we look at our society as a whole, as much as we consume, we are still increasing emissions. so i think we need to be more self-critical, and i would ask mr. leinen if he knows this fact and how he thinks we should take action to actually start reducing emissions, not just on the production side, but on the whole, as a society.
i have a feeling this is the most peaceful negotiation we've ever had. nor has the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, or ipcc, been heard, although the warnings of scientists are very worrying. my personal opinion on this report is clear. the policy has neither the knowledge nor the experience to assess the correctness of these warnings. we have a responsibility to act. we need to find common ground with the rest of the world in international negotiations, and i do not support attempts to use the resolution to define domestic policies. there is a lot of unnecessary text like that in this year's resolution. i argue that it will not contribute to the outcome of international negotiations, it may even make them more difficult. and within the european union, it will cause division, and that is a situation we should not allow. which is why i'm wondering what the provocative, quasi-eco-proposals are for. certainly not reducing emissions. if we want to speak the same language in the european union, we must be realistic, we must respect each other and, as mr leinen said before me, we must let the market forces do their job better. i therefore make it clear that we must reject the non-life-giving parts of the resolution and those which seek to prejudge certain domestic policy decisions. if that does not happen, i will vote against the resolution, even though i am a supporter of environmentally conscious behaviour and precisely because i have been advocating for good and effective climate policy for many years.
the free trade agreement will mark a new beginning in the european union's relations with its eastern partners. the implementation of the agreement will bring major benefits to both the european union and the partner countries. i very much agree with the author of the question who described the situation in ukraine, but i would like to draw attention to the unacceptable behaviour of russia, which is trying to use its political and economic pressure to influence other countries not to sign an agreement with the eu. it is therefore important that in this chamber, i think both the european parliament and the european commission, we send a very clear signal that the signing of any agreements under no circumstances should mean that they bear any negative consequences, a challenge from another country. the partnership between the member states of the european union and the eastern partners must be based above all on the principle of sound democracy, on the pursuit of sustainable economic development and on the care for the good or excellent crossborder relations we have had so far. i personally think that the trade agreement is a really important step forward.
i support compromises in the report that are reasonable and that add new quality to the reports. they limit centralization, they demand quality, they increase patient safety and, of course, patient trust. it is imperative that we as politicians are sufficiently aware of the importance of health for all those who still have it and for all those who have already lost it. trust and security are the key here. we can imagine the pain of distrust for people with disabilities, for whom medical devices represent inclusion, for whom they represent dignity. we can imagine the suffering of women who have had their breasts removed for cancer and need a silicone implant, which they doubt. the compromise proposals provide solutions, and also reduce bureaucratic procedures and thus improve access for specialised, small and medium-sized enterprises to the medical device market. finally, the new transparency will also help health insurers, which have been severely affected by the crisis, to better manage the cost of medical devices and all diagnostic devices. thank you and congratulations to the reporters.
in writing. − i voted for increased patient safety in the use of diagnostic medical devices used in pregnancy, diabetes, hiv and dna testing. we called for the creation of an ethics committee, and the introduction of provisions for informed consent and genetic counseling. i agree to enter into negotiations with the council and will continue to support proposals that put patients in their own centers.
in writing. − we have adopted a proposal for regulations to tighten the monitoring and certification procedures for medical devices, with the aim of ensuring their full compliance and traceability. the proposal also strengthens the requirements for more information and higher ethical standards for diagnostic medical devices used for example in pregnancy or dna testing. the proposed legislation can improve the transparency of information for patients and healthcare professionals and strengthen the rules on traceability, while not creating additional burdens for innovative small manufacturers. the changes would allow doctors and patients to access clinical trial data to help them decide which medicinal product to use. i support proposals that put the patient at the center.
in writing. - i voted against because i am a defender of life and the promotion of human dignity from conception onwards. in the autumn of 2011, the court of justice of the european union in greenpeace v brüstle defined the human embryo as the beginning of the development of human life, which begins at the moment of conception.
the western sahara is becoming an increasingly complex area of humanitarian and security concerns for the whole of europe and the world. it is therefore imperative that the european union takes action here. we need both economic and political sanctions to improve the situation in the region, as this is one of the last chances for morocco to respect international law and end its illegal occupation of western sahara. the fisheries agreement with morocco, which was rejected by the european parliament some time ago and which is now back on our agenda, must contain a solution that is fair to the people of western sahara. this means that natural resources belonging to the western sahara area must be excluded from any agreement between morocco and the eu, unless western sahara agrees to the proposed agreement. respect for human rights in the region is a key factor in improving the situation and, above all, in improving the quality of life of the inhabitants, which will ultimately benefit the economic and environmental policies of the european union and the region.
first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur iacolin for her diligent work and excellent cooperation. we propose measures to european governments that are tailor-made for the people and based on expert recommendations. we have heard hundreds of them and we have concluded time and again that without police and judicial cooperation, effective combat is not possible. criminals and criminals will continue to sneak across our borders, and money will continue to flow into secret accounts and tax havens. we need to follow best practice, protect witnesses and whistleblowers, redistribute confiscated assets to vulnerable people, and provide conditions for investigative journalism. if they were successful in fighting corruption alone, they could fill the annual coffers of the european budget. i wonder, honourable commissioner, when will the commission publish its reports on the state of corruption in our countries? the picture of modern slavery across europe is a grim one, with some 880 000 people in forced labour, a third of them victims of sexual exploitation. the trafficking of people is worth some 25 billion euros annually to criminal organizations. in europe, we urgently need a european public prosecutor's office with the power to investigate and prosecute cases of misuse of european funds across borders. the protection of the union's financial interests and the euro must be our priority, and we must ensure that our judiciary is independent in all countries. if european governments, ladies and gentlemen, fail to recognise the urgency of action, we will never be able to resolve the crisis, and we will lose the confidence of our citizens and the credibility of our institutions. i believe that tomorrow, with strong support here in the european parliament, we will open a common european path to combat this global phenomenon of organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
in may this year, we approved my report on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens in the plenary. together we have committed ourselves to stopping as soon as possible the flow of money in europe that is lost in the tax hole and that already amounts to a thousand billion euros a year. i am pleased that we are concluding today the debate on a report which is putting additional pressure not only on the fight against tax fraud but also on the overall fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. above all, the problem of tax havens is directly linked to money laundering, and i agree with my colleague mr iacolin who, in his report, calls for a european response and a european strategy to combat this crime. since we have already approved in this house a concrete definition and a long list of sanctions for identified tax havens, it is now necessary to put pressure on the member states to actually implement what we have been repeating in this house for several months, to implement our demands.
i congratulate my colleague iacolin on an excellent report. i'm committed to strengthening the fight against corruption and other such phenomena. perhaps we have too many or too scattered agencies, bodies and programmes in the european union to fight this effectively. the eu must take responsibility and not just pass it on to the member states. but i would like to highlight paragraph 79 of the iacolini report, which talks about the credibility of the judiciary in the fight against corruption. it recommends, inter alia, that member states ensure that criminal justice systems are effective, efficient, accountable and balanced, and that they are also capable of ensuring the rights of defence under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i say this based on the experience we have in slovenia, which is notoriously corrupt. there, an opposition champion was convicted in the first instance on the grounds that he had received a reward for some kind of mediation for a party in an undisclosed place and time. so the fight against corruption must be fair and must not be misused for political purposes.
we are discussing the excellent report by mrs ferreira, which states that in the last year we have seen improvements in the european semester process itself, both by the commission and by the national parliaments and the council. in particular, i welcome the recognition that the pace of implementation of austerity measures needs to be slowed down and that a focus on investment and competitiveness is needed to stabilise the euro area and the european union as a whole. today, we are facing a slow, fragile recovery and much work is still needed to move investment programmes in the european union, such as competitiveness and jobs instruments, from paper to action. above all, it is of the utmost importance that the macroeconomic policy of the euro area and the eu as a whole not only highlights and discusses the failures of the deficit countries, but also the imbalances between the deficit member states and those that still borrow practically for free on the financial markets. unfortunately, we are still lacking this in the european semester process itself.
my sincere congratulations to rapporteur elmar brok on a job well done. with this report, the european parliament not only expresses its attitude to the crisis centres, but also clarifies the basic principles of the common foreign and security policy. in this respect, i am particularly pleased that the report includes, for the first time, a strategic approach to health. health, mentioned alongside energy, climate change and water supply as one of the contemporary challenges, should be considered as a strategic element of security and foreign policy in our communication and cooperation with various partners. i agree with the call for flexibility in foreign policy in the face of new threats, but i stress that health is not a new challenge. we have been witnessing a long-term deterioration in health indicators in the european union and globally this is also a consequence of wrong policies and wrong development paradigms. as the european union prepares strategic partnership agreements with the world's leading countries, it is an opportunity to include health as one of the essential elements of bilateral cooperation and shared concern for global development.
on the way to becoming what it is today, europe has at various times been able to respond to its historical challenges. this was the beginning of the unification of europe after the second world war, the opening of the process of european enlargement after the fall of the berlin wall, and the simultaneous accession of ten countries to the european union in 2004. it seems to me that in the meantime we should think about the european union being able to be brave and, if we want, innovative and repeat the maneuver by also taking the countries of south-eastern europe together, in a package, to repeat the big bang. the differences between them sometimes seem big, but they're not really big, and i think that this approach would trigger synergy and new energy in all these countries waiting to join the european union.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the problem that we have is to ensure that those who participate in this young democracy put the needs of the country ahead of their own interests. the maldives is not, of course, the only country with a tradition of ‘winner takes all’. but any parliamentary democracy includes not just a governing party but a ‘loyal opposition’ as well. we stand ready to help. and i can say, in response to what mr bennion was asking: if the election can at last be held, we can also consider other support, for example training for bodies like the judiciary and an effective audit organisation. regarding election observation, let me remind you that the eu funded the election expert mission, which is still in place. the maldives is an important beneficiary of our assistance in the field of climate change as well. we shall certainly continue scrutiny of developments affecting human rights. in conclusion, i am grateful to parliament for offering us the possibility to discuss the maldives. we need to follow developments carefully. these elections have a relevance which goes beyond the borders of this small country. we should do whatever we can to stop it sliding into administrative chaos or back into dictatorship, as was the case before 2008.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, commissioner, honourable members, thank you for your interest in this matter. let me start off by saying that the council has not yet discussed the issue, whereas the high representative and the european external action service have been in close contact with our member states and greenpeace to follow developments and to bring support in terms of coordination and consular support ever since 19 september, when the greenpeace ship arctic sunrise was seized by russian authorities. as we are all aware, the whole crew, including two journalists – 30 in all, of 18 different nationalities – were arrested and subsequently charged with piracy and put under two months’ pre-trial arrest. the arrest followed attempts by greenpeace activists to scale an oil rig off russia’s coast to protest against oil production in the fragile arctic environment. the eu delegation in moscow hosts regular coordination meetings with all countries concerned, both member and non-member states of the eu. in murmansk, where the crew and journalists are detained, consular assistance is being coordinated by finland. it is at least positive to note that there has been no problem so far with consular staff seeing and assisting the detainees. it is important to note that that all the member states which have nationals among the detainees wish to deal with the incident, for the time being, as only a consular matter. the eu respects this and has abstained from public statements on the wider issues involved. you will, however, recall that commissioner malmström addressed the issue here in parliament earlier this month. having said this, we would agree that the piracy charges against the 28 crew members and even against two journalists covering greenpeace’s action seem disproportionate. in addition, they would seem to be a clear violation of freedom of the press. we hope the ongoing investigation will allow swift clarification of the facts for which the crew could be held accountable, and we look forward to seeing russia release the 30 detainees. in the meantime, we expect that they will all continue to have access to all the legal and consular assistance to which they are entitled.
member of the commission. − chairman, mr leškevičius, honourable members of the european parliament, the arrest of the greenpeace crew and the two journalists followed attempts by activists to scale an oil rig off russia’s arctic coast in an attempt to attract attention to the potential impact of economic activities on the fragile arctic environment. while our immediate preoccupation is the continuing detention and the manifestly disproportionate charges brought against those detained, we should certainly not lose sight of the issue that they were attracting attention to. it is one that we should all take very seriously – how to ensure that economic activities in the arctic do not endanger the region’s fragile environment. climate change is already having a significant impact on the arctic environment, and the exploitation of the region’s natural resources poses an additional threat if it is not carried out in a sustainable way, with all necessary precautions in place and in consultation with the people who live there. we cannot even begin to imagine the impact that a major oil spill would have on the arctic environment or the difficulties and cost of trying to clean it up. the eu is keen to step up its engagement with its arctic partners, including russia, to help meet the challenge of safeguarding the environment while ensuring the sustainable development of the arctic region. we have funded projects and programmes to that end and will continue to do so in the future. the events also raise questions relating to interpretation of the un law of the sea convention. the netherlands, as flag state of the arctic sunrise, has initiated arbitration procedures under the law of the sea convention. we welcome this step, which might clarify the underlying issue of the legality of the ship’s seizure. perhaps more importantly, the netherlands has asked for the release of the ship’s crew and journalists as a provisional measure pending clarification of the main legal issues. this would be a positive early outcome not only for those detained but also for their families. but as we have just learned, russia will, unfortunately, not accept the arbitration procedure in this case. russia claims not to be obliged to recognise the authority of the law of the sea tribunal in disputes concerning sovereign rights and jurisdiction. while, of course, regretting this decision, we also note that russia has declared itself open to settlement of the case. this gives hope for a positive outcome.
on behalf of the alde group. gazprom, like the big multinational companies of the west, which want to quickly conquer new spaces and ensure the exploitation of the natural resources of our planet, if possible uncontrolled, does not have an absolute mandate. they take more freedom than they deserve, and we're just afraid of what they're going to do to nature and the environment. that is why we in the alde group cannot accept the authoritarian treatment of greenpeace environmentalists by the russian authorities on the absurd charge of piracy. such an accusation, it has been reported, seemed problematic even to russian leader putin. of course, it is doubtful that in today's russia, representatives of any branch of government would oppose the will of the president. it is right that the european parliament should intensify the expressions of concern, condemnation and solidarity that the russian authorities' treatment of greenpeace activists has triggered throughout the democratic world. after exposing countless gross and dangerous encroachments on nature in other parts of the world over the years, this idealistic organization has taken bold action in arctic waters to call attention to the fact that gross exploitation, with all its consequences, is spreading to this part of the almost untouched land. the russian government doesn't want to understand this democratic message, and like the pussy riot girls, the magnitsky, navalny and others, it first intervenes after the repression. this is not a russia that we can understand, accept or defend. russia should simply release the greenpeace prisoners as soon as possible and avoid even more international embarrassment.
first of all, i would like to welcome the good practice of the european union, which has been preparing environmental action programmes for many years, because this is how we tell how environmental standards will be updated, and this is something that both national and regional authorities need to know, and it is also important for investors in the economy. i would just like to ask you to consider adopting this action programme a little earlier next time, rather than just before it comes into force. it might also be worth considering a slightly longer one. i am also aware of the short life span of politicians and that if this programme were to be very long, it would encroach on the powers of those politicians who are yet to be elected. but on the other hand, i also know that when you're making decisions in energy, for example, those decisions are decades in the future. i also believe that the problem in the union today is not poor legislation or low environmental standards. i think the most we whisper is about timely and consistent policy implementation. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to ensure that the commitments already made are better implemented in all areas of the environmental programme. i think that's the key. i now want to say what i said when we discussed the resolution for cop 19: i am in favour of ambitious but balanced action by the union on climate change. balanced means taking into account all aspects of sustainable development environmental, economic and social aspects. and they also depend on global conditions. therefore, we can only raise our environmental standards further if comparable countries take similar action. i am also against the environmental programme being used to take decisions which have to be discussed and adopted within the framework of sectoral policies. i am in favour of committing ourselves to a binding target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the seventh environmental programme. but i do not agree that we are interfering with energy policy and demanding binding targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency in this document. and i'm glad that the compromise text does not contain these commitments, and that our negotiators did not succumb to the lobbyists of individual industries, and therefore i congratulate mr. franz and the negotiators on the work done.
in writing. − i supported the opinion of the committee on budgets and rejected the cuts to research, development and employment policies that would harm the digital agenda, entrepreneurship and unemployment, especially among young people - all important factors of economic growth where europe must not withdraw its support.
in writing. − i support the fact that the eu member states enforce eu environmental laws more rigorously, providing security for investments that support environmental policy and efforts to combat climate change, and taking more account of environmental concerns in other policies.
in writing. − with this report, the european parliament is not only expressing its attitude to the crisis centres, but is also making clearer the basic principles of the common foreign and security policy. in this respect, i am particularly pleased that the report includes, for the first time, a strategic approach to health. health, mentioned alongside energy, climate change and water supply as one of the contemporary challenges, should be considered as a strategic element of security and foreign policy in our communication and cooperation with various partners. i agree with the call for flexibility in foreign policy in the face of new threats, but i stress that health is not a new challenge. we have been witnessing a deterioration in health indicators in the eu and globally for some time. this is also a consequence of wrong policies and wrong development paradigms. as the eu prepares strategic partnership agreements with the world's leading countries, it is an opportunity to include health as one of the essential elements of bilateral cooperation and shared concern for global development.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur of the european parliament, doris pack, for her good and long-term work in this area. without her personal efforts, the european union would certainly not have achieved the good results it has. even more: in a time of budgetary cuts, it managed to bargain excellently for a plus 40%. i would also like to thank the council and the commission for this. i was the european parliament's rapporteur on youth and mobility in 2011. we emphasised then the importance of european school systems serving as well as possible the needs of individuals, but also the economy and society as a whole. we also highlighted in this year's report the need to rethink education. i hope that in the future we will avoid a situation where we have a few million young people out of work on the one hand and a few million jobs that are vacant on the other because we cannot fill them with the right profiles. the fact is that the modernisation of the education system is a prerequisite for economic development and social welfare. finally, i would like to see the new programme in place by the beginning of 2014 and thus begin to serve european citizens and the european story, especially young people, well as soon as possible.
in recent months, slovenia has been eagerly awaiting the results of the stress tests being carried out on eight slovenian banks as part of the efforts to rescue the banking system. in his encouraging and positive assessment of slovenia's progress in resolving the crisis last week, commissioner rehn also described slovenia's efforts to clean up banks as decisive and effective. in the light of these assessments and the forecast of the necessary stress tests that all euro area countries will have to carry out within the framework of the banking union, however, speculation has now emerged as to whether slovenia will have to go through the stress test process again in a few months' time in order to meet the condition set out in the new banking union frameworks. i am interested in how the commission assesses and responds to questions about the implementation of stress tests in slovenia and whether a good methodology will be able to ensure that the results of the slovenian tests become an example for other member states.
the mff is an investment budget, but it was created during the economic crisis and is also a reflection budget. the implementation of investment and cohesion and development programmes, which would otherwise be abandoned by member states due to times of crisis and withdrawn from their budgets, will thus continue to be one of the main tasks still facing the european union and which are aligned with the europe 2020 strategy. this is good news for our countries, regions and municipalities, which still see european money as one of the main investment assets at their disposal. i'm not personally happy with the final compromise, but i think given the opportunities we've had in the negotiations over the last year, it's the best that could have been negotiated. we are fortunate that the 960 billion euros we have at our disposal also have a multiplier effect, so that the member states themselves who will spend this money, this money, in the next seven years, will be able to get much more out of it than just this almost one thousand billion euros. i believe in it, and that's why i'm... i'm most pleased with the special fund for youth unemployment and for people who have found themselves in difficult situations.
thank you all for all your incredibly hard work and, of course, for the incredibly fitting result for today. because a budget for growth and jobs is so necessary that we are all waiting for it, i believe in all the member states of the european union. the link between knowledge, research and smes is actually the basis for us to look for innovative solutions, creative solutions, to look for the opportunity for people to work, to look for the opportunity for new jobs. because when you have a job, you have everything. and that is what this budget is supporting, and it is also supporting the integration of europe, because without connections, without digital connections, rail and road connections, it is harder to work. so thank you all.
i voted for the budget because this time we have a very clear framework for investment, for economic growth and for jobs. 27 million unemployed need work, and work is also dignity. in addition, this budget places a great deal of emphasis on completing the internal market, linking everything together with digitisation, railways, roads and, last but not least, allowing greater emphasis on health, health which is also linked to food. and all of these are jobs, they are jobs for young people who are already on the road today, which is called the road of no hope. so thank you to everyone who put so much work into this budget.
in writing. − first of all, i would like to express my support for the report and thank the rapporteur for a job well done. we must look with great concern at the high rate of youth unemployment, not only in spain, france and italy, but in many eu countries. as many as one in five young europeans are unemployed, which makes structural reforms in the field of youth employment urgently needed. young people have already paid a high price in the current economic climate and an effective way of transitioning from the education system to the labour market needs to be found. the fact that 7.5 million europeans are neither employed nor in education requires member states to establish a system of partnerships between education systems, training providers, employment services and youth organisations. it is crucial to tap into the talent, experience, skills and abilities of young people, who are and will be the driving force behind european prosperity. as a potential solution, i would suggest encouraging love and respect for the earth among young people. with as many as 100 million chronically ill people in europe, awareness of the link between health, food and the land is essential. on the other hand, innovation in the exploitation of the earth's resources also represents a business opportunity for young people. we need to encourage young people to get their hands dirty, but at the same time, to think creatively and connect the dots with the computer.
in writing. − due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the votes on the nuclear safety cooperation instrument. i support the document and, above all, welcome the ambition to encourage third countries to move towards safety standards comparable to those in the eu (e.g. a strong and independent administrative body, adequate human and financial resources).
a european strategy to accelerate economic recovery and growth is virtually unthinkable without a strong cohesion policy, which is our only pan-european instrument for overcoming economic, social and territorial disparities and for boosting both public and new private investment. the new legislative package brings a new division of regions to several countries, including my country, slovenia. but it's much more than that. among other things, it simplifies and harmonises the application for all the european structural funds, supports a stronger and clearer role for financial instruments, introduces a new partnership principle that will strengthen the role of local and regional authorities both in the programming and implementation of cohesion policy, and also includes much-needed funding for the youth employment initiative, which i would like to highlight as one of the greatest achievements at this point.
a lot of independent research is in favor of women in leadership positions, simply because the economy has found that it pays off. the example of belgium, france and italy, which recently passed legislation introducing women's quotas in larger companies, is already showing progress. this clearly shows that binding measures and a time limit can change the situation for the better. this proposal we are considering today will contribute to greater equality and social justice. it will contribute to economic growth and the full use of all the knowledge, skills, talents and abilities that the european union has. above all, however, it is important that this arrangement allows the potential of half the population in the highest decision-making positions in the economy to be effectively exploited.
for me, the greatest achievement of the cap reform is that young people have more hope because they have more incentives. to go back to the countryside, have a job, a job, an employment, and at the same time develop the countryside with knowledge. because today most of them are staying in the city, and of course that's a very negative signal. another commendable thing is that there is greater support for small farmers and for hilly areas, where it is still difficult to grow food. knowing that health is still somehow dependent on food and that farmers are the heroes who grow food for all of us, that gives us a mission and... (the president interrupted the speaker. )
in writing. − first of all, i would like to express my support for the report and thank the rapporteur for a job well done. cohesion policy is one of the key tools with which the european union promotes its priorities. the european social fund for regional development (esf) investments must be used to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. investments under the erdf must therefore generate benefits for all eu citizens and become a driver of growth and competitiveness. therefore, investment needs to be directed to areas that are key to growth. these are mainly smes, innovation, knowledge-based job creation and energy efficiency. particular attention should be paid to countries or regions with the most limited growth potential, especially in times of crisis, when the need to boost competitiveness and innovation and to create and maintain lasting jobs is heightened. only by reducing development imbalances in the region will the european union as a unified community be able to compete with global competitors. it is up to the member states to provide the means to co-finance projects. and it is precisely the provision of the necessary co-financing that can be challenged by the crisis and the lack of both public and private funds. as long as we are looking for good solutions at eu level and the governments of the member states are not implementing them, we will not reach our goal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed legislative proposals in the field of the common agricultural policy. it is not ideal and cannot solve all the problems, but in my view it provides appropriate and necessary solutions to the challenges facing european agriculture and rural areas today. it puts the active farmer first and reduces the opportunity to make money by owning property. it also promotes more environmentally friendly farming, which is essential for our health and the health of our planet. and finally, it's more focused on the young. there are too few of them in agriculture today, and we need to bring them into this sector if we are to have locally produced, safe and healthy food on our tables. the european common agricultural policy is a good example of learning by doing, but also of how meeting one need can encourage new ones. the first step was to ensure that there was enough food. once we had sufficient food production, it turned out that agriculture was much more than just food production. it is also about rural development and the preservation of human settlements. the cap has adapted accordingly and is now being adapted to new needs, such as environmentally friendly farming.
the european union, in a billion-euro tax loophole, is losing practically as much money as we just confirmed for all european projects over the next seven years. this is more money than all the member states spend on their health systems. above all, it is simply too much money being thrown away, literally, at a time when we are practically denying all citizens of europe basic public services through austerity measures. it is vital that we step up the fight against tax fraud and i am pleased that the fiscalis programme continues to be supported. this is precisely the programme that supports cooperation between national tax authorities and increases their effectiveness in combating tax fraud and evasion. i therefore warmly welcome the fact that special attention will be given within the fiscalis programme to the fight against tax fraud, the reduction of administrative burdens and cooperation with third countries, as has been emphasised on several occasions today. in particular, in the case of tax fraud and tax evasion, we are talking about a problem of a cross-border nature. and so the money that is going to improve coordination between tax offices is european money well spent. fiscalis will also support innovation and technical progress in member states' tax administrations, boost the productivity of national tax inspectorates and remove barriers to the single market. that is why i fully support the implementation of this programme. but i would also like to join my colleague mrs comi, who has just spoken about double taxation, particularly for people living in the border area. we are faced with this in practice, i think in all the member states, including slovenia, because we have great problems when people go to work across the border and have to pay taxes on both sides.
in writing. − due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on horizon 2020. i support horizon 2020 as i consider it to be one of the most important instruments for enhancing the competitiveness of the union. i am particularly pleased that the final document includes a new heading 'spreading excellence and participation', that 20% of the funding in the second and third pillars of the programme is dedicated exclusively to smes, an increased funding for marie skłodowska curie actions for young researchers and a greater focus on the projects 'safe, clean and efficient energy' and 'climate change and resource efficiency'.
in writing. − due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on horizon 2020. i support horizon 2020 as i consider it to be one of the most important instruments for enhancing the competitiveness of the union. i am particularly pleased that the final document includes a new heading 'spreading excellence and participation', that 20% of the funding in the second and third pillars of the programme is dedicated exclusively to smes, an increased funding for marie skłodowska curie actions for young researchers and a greater focus on the projects 'safe, clean and efficient energy' and 'climate change and resource efficiency'.
in writing. − due to my participation in the cop19 climate conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on horizon 2020. i support horizon 2020 as i consider it to be one of the most important instruments for enhancing the competitiveness of the union. i am particularly pleased that the final document includes a new heading 'spreading excellence and participation', that 20% of the funding in the second and third pillars of the programme is dedicated exclusively to smes, an increased funding for marie skłodowska curie actions for young researchers and a greater focus on the projects 'safe, clean and efficient energy' and 'climate change and resource efficiency'.
in writing. − first of all, i would like to express my support for the report and to thank the rapporteurs for the very good work they have done, especially in the negotiations with the council and the commission. horizon 2020 will be the largest european programme dedicated to research and development, with €70 billion. it will be the main european instrument to stimulate innovation in the member states and to increase europe's competitiveness on a global scale. the operation of the programme will be based on simplification and reduction of bureaucracy. great science is great economics. compared to the us and china, europe is slower in research. if we are to reach the level of the leaders, we need 1 million additional researchers in the european union by 2020! horizon 2020 will be an opportunity for all of europe. we will strengthen research capital and thus help to resolve the economic and social crisis. to do this, companies will need to network with each other and with knowledge centres. our products and services will be based on the transfer of knowledge, especially to smes and the self-employed. they must start preparing projects today, with the opening of applications on 11 december this year. i am glad that my amendments have been accepted. in particular, the telemedicine project, which can help to speed up the science process.
in writing. − as i am attending the cop19 conference in warsaw, i was unable to take part in the vote on the life financial instrument. i support the text and it is important that the new programmes are implemented as soon as possible. i support the extension of life, since projects in the field of climate change will also be financed in addition to environmental projects, and the introduction of new so-called 'integrated projects' aimed at facilitating the mobilisation and synergies of funds from different funds (structural, cohesion, national and regional level, private investment). national allocations are partially maintained and a higher co-financing rate for priority species is provided. this is of particular importance for slovenia, as a large part of its territory is covered by the specially protected area natura 2000, one of the priority areas of the life programme.
i, too, have received numerous warnings from scientists, and i take them very seriously. because they're talking about animal species, and i'm talking about deep-sea trawl fishing, of course, and scientists are pointing to species that are long-lived, that grow slowly, and therefore have longer regeneration cycles. as a result, such fishing causes a lot of damage, and i am concerned that it may take centuries for such ecosystems to recover. i think that the fact that we don't have enough data on fish stocks, and that we don't actually know exactly what the sustainable fisheries should be like there, is not an argument for not taking action, especially since we have good practices, like in norway. i believe that this generation must not exterminate and devastate the ecosystems that are the source of food and survival. the next generation of humans will be even more numerous, and we have a responsibility to them for sustainable development.
the situation in ukraine and the course of events following the cancellation of the agreement, the mass response of citizens who see their future in the west, closer to the european union, is a clear message that the principles and values of western europe and the eu enjoy high public support there. looking at these processes from the perspective of the acceding countries, we must express our admiration for the citizens who demonstrate their active, motivated and ambitious nature in demanding reforms at home and respect for democracy. all of this gives us courage, and we must be more active and more responsive as a european union. we need to send clear and decisive messages of support, in particular to those countries in the western balkans that are most active and successful in reform. the opening of chapters 23 and 24 in the case of montenegro and the intergovernmental conference in the case of serbia are needed now, immediately, in december, also as a necessary, unequivocal and above all clear response to the situation in ukraine
we have two very important and modern programmes that address the key challenges and shortcomings of existing programmes. the judicial systems of our member states are often still too expensive, too slow and too inefficient. citizens' distrust of the rule of law is a cancer on the wound of our societies that we must heal. it is the inefficient administration of justice that is most often the cause of distrust. we feel it even more in times of crisis. europeans want an effective judiciary. it is unacceptable that individuals continue to be denied the right to a trial within a reasonable time, where it is necessary to wait for a judicial epilogue for more than 10 years. in the crim special committee, we called, among other things, for the strengthening of cross-border judicial and police cooperation, the introduction of standard eu-wide rules on the protection of witnesses and whistleblowers, and the early start of the european public prosecutor's office, which will have the competence for cross-border investigation and prosecution in cases of misuse of european funds. today, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the world day of human rights, it is all the more important to remind people of the need to respect and protect all rights and freedoms. particular attention should be paid to those most affected by the reduction in entitlements, which is a particular focus of both programmes.
in writing. − i was pleased to support the report by rapporteurs berlinguer and claeyse, which proposes a regulation on the justice programme for the period 2014-2020 and thus lays the foundation for enhanced cooperation between eu countries in the field of justice. it is significant that we adopted this document on the very day of international human rights day. i am confident that the programme will have a positive impact on the protection of citizens' rights. but the question is whether this is the only way to ensure adequate legal protection for eu citizens. the fact is that the judicial systems in some member states are inefficient (there are many judicial backlogs) and in some cases politically biased, as in slovenia, where opposition leaders are prosecuted without evidence. i believe that the eu will have to develop mechanisms to monitor and influence the functioning of justice systems more effectively as soon as possible. a common prosecutor's office with a very limited field of operation is not enough to ensure that european citizens feel equal before the law, regardless of the member state in which they live.
in writing. - i agree with the amendment and with parliament's approval of the technical agreement at the end of the negotiations. in the absence of an agreement, these concessions could be withdrawn from china, which would of course have an impact on the volume of imports from this country into the eu. the impact would also be felt by consumers. this situation does not benefit any wto member, especially now that global economic growth is slowing. i supported the position that parliament should approve a concessions agreement for china, that the eu would align its customs union with its wto commitments after the accession of bulgaria and romania, while ensuring that china remained a reliable trading partner.
in writing. − regarding the eu-canada spa, i supported the position that the eu should insist that the agreement include, as do all eu agreements with third countries, ‘reciprocal conditionality and political clauses on human rights and democracy, as a common reaffirmation of the mutual commitment to these values and regardless of the state of protection of human rights in those countries and to adopt appropriate safeguards to ensure that the suspension mechanism cannot be abused by either sideʼ. i would especially point out that the way the eu creates agreements is based on the fundamental values on which the eu was formed. on the other hand, the political clauses should be completely safeguarded against abuse and the overall result should be a shared model of development of fundamental human values in the rest of the world.
in writing. − first of all, i would like to express my support for the report and to thank rapporteur pilar del castillo vera for a very well-done job. cloud computing has the potential to become an important tool for boosting growth, employment and competitiveness in europe. the main prerequisites for making the most of the cloud are strong fixed and mobile communication networks, digital literacy of all citizens and secure use of internet services. the development of cloud computing is important for the final establishment of the digital single market, as clouds relate to many aspects of the digital market that represent a need for greater harmonisation. in addition to flexibility and lower operating costs, such solutions represent an opportunity for smes, which for the most part do not have their own it infrastructure necessary for successful operations. cloud computing reduces barriers to market entry and promotes the inclusion of smes by reducing the cost of information infrastructure. the question is whether cloud computing will pose a risk to the security and protection of data. while some of the responsibility will be passed on to the providers, it is also up to individuals to be careful and to take their share of the responsibility. on the other hand, from personal experience, the cloud has helped us to preserve all the family pictures that we thought were lost when lightning struck our computer.
in writing. − in the vote on deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic, i supported an amendment which will ensure that the most destructive fishing practices are eliminated. the effects of such imbalances can be felt daily in our environment. and unfortunately, certain fishing techniques contribute to this. i was shocked to learn that one year of deep-sea kayaking causes as much environmental damage as a few centuries of paragliding. and that almost a third of the deep-sea catch is discarded. when we take them out of their environment and end up not consuming them at all, we upset the natural balance. knowing all this, it is our task and responsibility to ourselves and future generations to limit or prevent it. a month ago, we in the european parliament endorsed a common agricultural policy that is becoming greener and more environmentally friendly. i'm glad we continued that tradition this time.
in writing. − those of us who are aware of the importance of europe's development towards energy independence from carbon sources have achieved a key victory in reviving the european mechanism that promotes this. the objective of the measure is to revive the european emissions trading system (ets), which is designed to reduce dependence on carbon-based energy sources and is aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change. the measure was necessary because carbon prices had fallen well below the levels estimated for the optimal functioning of the mechanism, due to an oversupply of carbon allowances on the market caused by the stagnation of the economy. on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, of which i am a member, the european parliament, including my vote, supported the plans to allow the commission to schedule the auction of allowances with a revised timetable. in this way, the european commission would remove 900 million allowances from the market in a one-off measure, thus raising prices to a level that allows the system to operate in an incentive manner. the current crisis must not be used as an excuse to block change in the right direction, and by voting we have protected the environment, which is a european union issue not just for individual member states or individual industrial sectors, and thus safeguarded the functioning of the european mechanism that has already been adopted. otherwise, the creation of new jobs is also ensured by the companies which have an incentive to make the investment through this mechanism.
in writing. − i voted for the report because the cars of the future are a source of innovation and creative jobs and are healthier and more environmentally friendly. the automotive industry is one of the key pillars of european industrial policy, which, despite the economic crisis, remains an essential factor of competitiveness in europe. 12 million jobs are linked to the automotive sector, which also represents the foundation of european prosperity. the specific element of competitiveness enhancement is the integration of enterprises (procurement associations, consortia, cooperation, mergers, etc.), as this is the only way to cope with increasingly severe international competition. special attention is also paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which, because of their ability to adapt quickly, represent a trend that needs to be exploited. it is therefore necessary to facilitate their access to the capital markets and to encourage their integration into the market. will the cars of the future be remote controlled? will we be able to overcome our dependence on oil? these are questions that will be answered in practice by the most innovative.
in writing. − i support the commission's proposal 'cars 2020' for a more competitive automotive industry, which is very important and strategic for the european economy. the commission's proposal for cars 2020 provides for: 12 million jobs directly and indirectly linked to this industry, 4% of gdp at european level, a eur 90 billion trade surplus and a quarter of world production. this increase in the competitiveness of the automotive industry and its development is feasible by adapting national legislation and providing financial resources, tackling the problem of technological development in cooperation with existing resources and in closer cooperation with european agencies. as rapporteur for the political agreement with japan, i also welcome the fact that, despite the criticisms of some member states, japan also sees europe as a strong partner for the development of high added value in the chain of their automotive industry in europe.
in writing. − i was absolutely against the estrela report which uses the myth of backstreet abortion to claim its moral significance. it says that abortion is a human rights concern yet no national or international law states that abortion is a human right. it calls for the rejection and overriding of all national pro-life laws in the eu and worldwide, violating the euʼs subsidiarity principles. it calls for minors to act as sex-education supporters in the eu and in candidate countries. fathers and mothers are included within the group of ‘other stakeholdersʼ and are no longer recognised as being the first parties responsible for their own children. the estrela report aims at providing political legitimacy for the eu to make abortion and population control the political priority of international development policy after 2015. the report pretended to be a counterbalance to the ecj ruling in the brustle vs greenpeace case in which it was unanimously stated that ‘life begins after conception܀. i supported the ppe resolution.
in ukraine, the orange is mixed with the european blue. the paint wasn't imported, it came from inside. i cannot see the european values and european ambitions of ukraine as a reason for political polarization, let alone repression. the extraordinary popular energy, expressed by the people in the most direct and democratic way, should be the reason for a broad democratic debate on the future of ukraine. partnership and other agreements concluded by the european union are not alliances against anyone. the more partners who share the same values and principles that promote respect for human dignity, peace, freedom, the rule of law, a social market economy and democratic decision-making, the greater the area of democratic stability and cooperation. we need this in europe and globally. the round table is certainly better than any other form of media.
on behalf of the alde group. among all the external policy financial instruments, the instrument for pre-accession assistance is special, different, because it is direct financial assistance to countries on the way to and within the european union. the european parliament has significantly improved this key financial incentive. i am glad that we will be more attentive and supportive of the efforts of civil society. there's also a lot more understanding of chapters 23 and 24, especially justice. aid must also be visible, perceptible, tangible and understandable to citizens. i know from my experience with the western balkans that the citizens don't see that. they do not recognise the european union's assistance, they do not understand the positive effects of the assistance, and so they do not know what the european union is contributing and how it is helping to accelerate progress and reforms in the country and society. we need to do more to promote, present and bring eu aid closer to citizens inside and outside the european union.
in may of this year, we had a similar meeting here to discuss the urgency of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. we also touched on the important subject of tax havens. parliament proposed some 30 very concrete measures for both the commission and the member states. a few days later, the council adopted conclusions on a billion euro large european tax hole. after five years of blocking the savings directive, which the commissioner also mentioned, by austria and luxembourg, we heard at the time that the council had set the end of this year as the deadline for adopting this directive and thus ending tax secrecy and the exchange of banking data. i note today that on the agenda of the council meeting next week, there is no mention of taxes. it seems that representatives of the member states still like to make big promises at important global meetings such as the g20. but when it comes to actually adopting european legislation and transposing it into national law, things get nowhere. respected. a tax hole as big as all of europe's healthcare systems combined is essentially undermining trust in our tax systems and eating up much-needed money for public investment. the fact is that the problem of tax fraud and tax evasion should be brought into the european semester process, as the commissioner has also mentioned and i agree with him. it is necessary to set concrete objectives, both at european and national level, and to achieve, through the european semester, that member states actually put the tax gap on the political agenda and start implementing concrete measures.
in writing. − i support the proposal for a regulation on instruments to support the external policies of the european union. promoting respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and good governance, and fostering inclusive and sustainable growth is a key eu task, and the eu remains the world's leading donor for these purposes. the union will provide assistance, in accordance with this regulation, to address human rights and democratisation issues in partnership with civil society at global, regional, national and local levels, covering all types of social action by individuals or groups independent of the state whose activities contribute to the promotion of human rights and democracy.
i support the report of the european globalisation adjustment fund. especially with this thinking that today women lose their jobs at 50, men at 50 or more or a little less. and for all these people, first of all, their dignity is being violated and, of course, at the same time, their question of how to live on. that's why this fund is important. it would also be important to respond more quickly and for member states to respond more quickly. because there are many, including slovenia, who do not know how to properly explore the opportunities offered by this fund. at the same time, the commission should set out really clear criteria and also communicate them better with the member states to help people who lose their jobs.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament adopted today an opinion on a regulation which will make it easier for transporters of radioactive materials to obtain documentation. the procedure for obtaining this documentation will now be carried out under a single european system. in this context, it is essential that the european commission prepare as soon as possible the necessary delegated acts setting out the common criteria to be respected by carriers in order to obtain an authorisation. clear common rules are a key condition for the proper functioning of a system in which a carrier needs only a licence from one member state to operate services throughout the union.
we all agreed in may that it was urgent to tackle the billion euro tax gap. i believe that we adopted a good report in parliament at that time. and not just in light of the scale of the problem of tax evasion, but also because it reflects the problems of fairness, honesty, democracy and transparency of our tax systems. unlike our national governments - especially the heads of government, who make big promises at important international meetings - we in parliament have dared to go further and have prepared 30 concrete measures against tax fraud, tax avoidance and tax havens. but this was followed by non-binding proposals from the european commission, and with the consistent blocking of member states' tax files in the council, especially two countries, it seems crucial at this point to call on all european actors to take concrete action once again. and that's what this initiative for debate today is about. a tax loophole that eats away at the sum of eur 2000 per year for every european woman and man, undermines confidence in our tax systems and, more than that, eats away at the money that is needed for public investment. we therefore need a european umbrella target of halving the tax gap by 2020 that is effectively integrated into the europe 2020 strategy. i fully understand that a standardised set of indicators for assessing tax evasion and avoidance is very difficult to produce. but as the commissioner himself has said, we need the european commission to help us here. reference to member states and their national needs for the preparation of such indicators is only one part. i think that the european commission should do its job here. to prepare a study, as was done for example on vat, and a set of clear and measurable objectives to reduce this tax gap, not only at national level but also at european level. only concrete targets, specifically prepared for each member state individually, which would then be confronted by political leaders as part of the european semester, could actually bring about any concrete changes. i therefore propose that such objectives and measures related to the urgent reduction of the tax gap be included in the national reform and stability and growth programmes. only by acting more coherently and in a unified manner will we be able to tackle this acute problem of crossborder tax fraud and tax evasion. i therefore once again appeal, as my colleague anni podimata has done, for these objectives to be included both in the europe 2020 strategy and in the european semester.
in writing. − albanija je hitro napredovala v izpolnjevanju 12 ključnih nalog, ki ji jih je leta 2010 zastavila komisija. še vedno pa mora albanija poskreti za pravice manjšine romov. albanija bo morala poskrbeti tudi za korupcijo in doslednejši sistem kazenskega prava, saj je le-ta v državi še vedno na nizki ravni. strinjam se, da si albanija zasluži, da ji svet podeli status kandidatke, za pospešen napred v bodoče.
