mr president, i would like to thank you. the question of the role that cohesion policy can play in implementing energy policy is one to which my answer is very clear. it is that it can be of incredibly important importance, perhaps even in some regions of crucial importance. my examples come from northern sweden, where six years ago we formulated the regional structural fund programmes for this period, including that we would stimulate the development of sustainable energy solutions. it resulted in a complete explosion of small businesses and others working in environmental technology and energy conservation; it spread like wildfire, and a lot of new jobs were created in these small businesses. linking it with innovation work also resulted in the transfer of energy saving innovations in the forestry industry to the tourism industry. i am absolutely convinced that we can use cohesion policy to implement sustainable solutions and, moreover, to create jobs.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr berlinguer for his tireless work on this issue for a long, long time. i think that the proposal for a new administrative law for europe which we have before us here tonight is very good. i really hope that the commission will be inspired by the clear signal that parliament will send tomorrow, both to the commission and to the citizens of all our member states. it is high time, mr president, that the institutions of europe have a single, common, modern and up-to-date administrative law which makes it easier for citizens to contact the institutions and take advantage of opportunities in europe and which can at the same time help to bring the union closer to the citizens. whether we are members of the european parliament, as we are here tonight, commissioners, ministers in the council or officials in any of the eu institutions, we must never forget that we are all here to serve the citizens of europe. always serve but never rule. we are here for the citizens, not the other way around. it is therefore self-evident that we will use the legal basis provided by the treaty of lisbon and adopt as soon as possible a common law governing the institutions and possibilities of europe. thank you again to all my colleagues and especially to mr. berlinguer, dear luigi. now i hope the commission will be clear and say that it intends shortly to respond to parliament's wishes and present a legislative proposal in line with the proposal that mr berlinguer and the committee have now worked out. i thank you for that, mr president.
mr president, i would like to express my congratulations to mr tannock on a well written report. well done! as pointed out in paragraph 68, there was great relief in my country when the two swedish journalists, martin schibbye and johan persson, were released from prison in ethiopia after almost 14 months. let me now raise another dreadful case: the case of dawit isaak. dawit isaak is a swedish-eritrean journalist who has been in prison in eritrea since 2001 – over 11 years – without knowing why he is in prison and without a trial. it is a tragedy that this can go on year after year without anything happening. we do not even know if he is still alive. dawit isaak, mr commissioner, is the only politically-imprisoned eu citizen. i have here copies of a film made by two swedish journalists, gellert tamas and maria magnusson, about dawit isaak, entitled ‘imprisoned: the untold story of dawit isaak’. i would like to give a copy to you, mr president, to the commissioner and to the rapporteur. this film gives additional arguments as to why dawit isaak must be released immediately. it is our responsibility never to forget dawit isaak and his awful living conditions in the prison of asmara.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. dear mr president, dear mr minister, i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for the cyprus presidency which has come to an end. cyprus is a young eu member state and has just completed its first presidency. now is not the time for us to sum up the time we have spent. many are happy to note that the eu under the cypriot presidency has achieved success in a number of areas. as a group led by the legal affairs committee, we are delighted that the european patent act has come into force under your leadership. after 37 years of unprecedented efforts, we have reached our goal, and this is something many of us remember with gratitude and joy. as rapporteur for the dublin regulation, i.e. libe-utskottet, i also acknowledge all the attempts to reach agreement on the common european asylum package. the fact that we have not reached the end of the road is certainly not due to the cypriot presidency and its leadership, but to the self-interest and the obligation to take joint responsibility for asylum seekers in the member states. this perspective is coming to dominate, which i regret. we are many who would like to thank the cypriot presidency with recognition, gratitude and joy for the days that have come. so we must still think of cyprus as a small, vibrant and exciting member state which under its first presidency has taught us to see and understand that we must not only look at cyprus as a small country, a tourist destination, but also as a small country which has made a great difference for the eu and which has proved to be a very important member state for the eu. (avslutning på grekiska) (answer by the president)
blue-card question. – thank you, mr eppink, for your speech, which was quite refreshing. i am here to replace mr verhofstadt, who is absent from the chamber this morning and thus unable to defend either himself or his visions. on behalf of the alde group, i would like you to tell me: what are the efd group’s visions for europe? what we need today, in these times of financial crisis, is for people to stand up, as mr verhofstadt always does, and to have a vision for a bright future for europe. that is missing in your political group. we are facing economic crisis, but there is also a crisis of values and someone has to be brave and courageous. mr verhofstadt is one of those political leaders.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much for the commission's proposal which has a clear focus on innovation, small business and simplification. we are now in the trialogue negotiations and i shall ask for the views of the commissioners, not to ask them to judge between the different proposals, but to make comments. for example, in the case of the eit and the kics, parliament has in its position put more emphasis on more competition and innovation in the selection process itself to stimulate more and further competition and innovation. i would like to ask the commissioner for his comments on that proposal from parliament in our position. the second question concerns the rules of participation. here parliament has given priority to the programme being effective and efficient in relation to the money we are investing. the council has proposed a pay increase while we have discussed more synergies with the structural funds, and i would like the commission's comments in connection with our attempts to extend the programme to more member states. should more be done on the salaries and support of researchers or on the system of the structural funds? i would like to hear the commission's comments on both options and its views on widening participation. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you so much for your comments. i have a supplementary question to the commissioner on the eit and kics. as mentioned here, there is a tremendous amount of effort being made by companies in this context. i believe that, despite the economic crisis, companies are also prepared to make perhaps even more efforts in this area of the kics. i would like to ask you: do you share that assessment? as regards the rules of participation, i think we will now have a very interesting situation here, where the council has more presented how we are going to broaden this with individual actions on doctoral salaries, and parliament may have a position which means that we are going to find synergies in the more structural area with the help of cohesion policy. it is an interesting discussion that we have ahead of us where we can exchange experiences and make a good solution in the future. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i am opposed to the proposal for further supranational legislation in this area. we need a renewal of urban development that can help create more rents and new jobs, while respecting the living environment and tackling climate change in the building plans. but these decisions should be taken by assembling a democratic political majority at national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report. the proposals in this report are important steps forward in the work to reach a high level of transparency in the european union. it is important that the proposed administrative regulation should apply to all the eu’s institutions, bodies and agencies. i want to emphasise my view: the stronger the regulation for transparency in the european union, the better it will be for democracy. a good example is the swedish principle of freedom of information. in sweden the general public and the mass media have wide access to official records. this affords swedish citizens a clear insight into the activities of government and the local authorities. scrutiny is seen as valuable for a democracy, and transparency reduces the risk of power being abused. access to official records also means that civil servants and others who work for the government are free to inform the media or outsiders.
in writing. − freedom of information for different groups of employees is of paramount importance, both in the public and private sectors. having employees tell you when something has gone wrong without having to fear the consequences is extremely important. because i feel very strongly about this principle, i did not vote with my group on a number of amendments to this report.
in writing. - we voted against the report on the planning and management of restructuring today because we are opposed to european regulation of the conditions for restructuring companies. we believe that this should be decided as far as possible between the social partners and within the framework of national legislation. we also believe that this should be regulated at national rather than eu level.
in writing. the nagoya protocol was the result of strong social reactions to the excessive monopolisation of genetic resources. but the solution is not to create more monopolies which create more problems, prevent the use and exploitation of knowledge and hinder trade, research and development. it seems that parliament has rather instinctively fallen for an old political favourite: the belief that monopoly and exclusivity are necessarily the best and fairest. it's not. the future is built on shared knowledge and communication. it is a pity that a parliament which is almost united does not seem to understand this.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has tabled an opinion on the proposal. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to thank the rapporteur and commissioner barnier and tell him that we in the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights had a long time to find political agreement on a text. we therefore decided to limit ourselves to the issue of the civil liability of credit rating agencies. i was very pleased that we were finally able to agree on a common position, which brought together a committee which was basically unanimous. that is why i was somewhat disappointed to note that the committee on economic and monetary affairs chose to ignore the work we did in the committee on legal affairs. i believe that better communication between committees in the future would be useful in avoiding similar situations. i am, however, pleased to see that the agreement has resolved the problems of civil liability. it is gratifying that the reverse burden of proof has now disappeared and that the relationship with national law and the instruments available in the field of international civil law has been clarified. with that, i thank you for the floor.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the creation of order and stability in financial markets has been one of the main challenges during the financial crisis. the role of credit rating agencies in the financial crisis was significant. failure to properly assess the value of complex financial products. i think that is the main problem, and the commissioner was also aware of it. the independence of the institute has also been rightly called into question. even a market liberal like me has to admit that the institutions were poorly regulated and overseen. the main problem was the structured products. banks must increasingly make their own assessments of credit risk and not rely solely on the assessments of credit rating agencies. restoring confidence in institutions and increasing transparency in the market is paramount, as is increasing competition and giving more power to esma. restoring confidence in financial markets is a very important part of re-boosting growth in europe. this proposal is going in the right direction. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very positive about the agreement that is now on the table. it is another step towards a healthier and more credible credit rating culture. the main point is that the requirement for lenders to use external credit ratings will be removed from eu legislation by 2020. instead, lenders should take greater responsibility for making their own assessments. this is a crucial key to success. it is therefore very important that these changes in legislation are actually implemented. with lenders doing a broader analysis and taking more responsibility, credit ratings will start to play a more reasonable role. i also think that the new rules on the valuation of governments and government securities are well balanced: on the one hand, credit ratings must not be about political expediency but must be neutral and sound assessments of real creditworthiness. the downgrades of the institutions during the crisis have been overly marked by well-timed political developments. on the other hand, the regulatory framework should not be made more far-reaching than in this agreement. the existence of sound and independent valuations of sovereigns is a valuable factor in the credit market and must be maintained. thank you for your time.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you for your time. as i see it, the debate on stability bonds has recently developed in the right direction. collective borrowing is no longer seen as an emergency medicine, but rather as a promising alternative to effectively paying down debt and essentially stabilising the euro. this more long-term and structural oriented perspective is good. if any form of joint borrowing is to be successfully implemented, it must be done in a well-designed and controlled manner so that the new mechanisms really contribute to greater stability and sustainability. what the commission should now analyse further in the first instance is the idea of creating a 'redemption fund'. this is not only the most interesting model, but also a relatively new proposal which has not yet been sufficiently studied. in europe we have now built up a huge mountain of debt which must be dealt with as efficiently as possible. if we do not address this challenge rationally, there is a great risk that debt management will stifle growth and job creation for a long time. for the euro area countries, a temporary 'redemption fund' could be an important part of the solution to the problem. there is therefore every reason to continue actively to work on this issue.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, the commission welcomes the interest of the european parliament in the state aid modernisation (sam) initiative and in the two commission proposals to amend the procedural regulation and the enabling regulation adopted on 5 december 2012. the commission appreciates the ongoing open dialogue with the european parliament on state aid modernisation. the input from parliament during the workshop on sam, organised by the committee on economic and monetary affairs in september 2012, and at the presentation of the commission’s 2013 work programme on competition to the economic affairs committee in october 2012 was valuable for the commission’s work. the two commission proposals for amended council regulations were sent to the european parliament, the council and the member states simultaneously after their adoption on 5 december 2012. prior consultations on the main orientations of the proposals were presented to parliament in advance in the same way as to member states. under article 109 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council is responsible for consulting parliament on regulations that it adopts to apply articles 107 and 108 on state aid. the commission takes note of parliament’s wish to include a codecision procedure on these matters in potential treaty revision. however, this issue goes beyond the legal framework under which the two current proposals will be adopted. the commission is committed to keeping parliament informed on progress regarding the sam initiative and on public consultations and new guidelines adopted in that context. the commission looks forward to the appointment of the rapporteurs and to parliament’s opinion on both proposals. the commission services are available for the rapporteurs and other interested members to discuss the relevant issues and to provide any necessary clarification.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, let me thank the rapporteur as well as the commissioner. i think that it is important to remember that state aid always risks distorting competition. it always risks conserving all structures at the cost of new entrants and new ideas and it is always a risk to the integration of the internal market. that is why we have competition legislation and that is why we have strict rules for state aid. i think it is important when we talk about the modernisation of state aid that the theme must be less but better targeted state aid. we have just had a discussion in this plenary about public finances and state aid always undermines the stability of public finances. that is why the target must be less and better targeted state aid, supporting knowledge development, supporting innovation clusters, supporting services – but not supporting different entities, different companies – supporting the emergence of new technologies in different areas. i think it must be up to the commission to follow up on our achieving less state aid – because then we are enabling more private investments and more competition – but also to ensure that it is better targeted and not distorting competition but helping new innovations and new science clusters and new infrastructures to emerge. that must be the challenge for the commission in the years to come.
mr president, the irish presidency takes office at a sensitive time for the union. i am thinking particularly of the financial framework negotiations. it is the first time in history that a long-term budget will be dealt with under the rules of the lisbon treaty and at the same time in an economic crisis, the deepest since the birth of this union. the crisis fosters a simple logic. if member states cut their budgets, so should the eu, but that logic is simplified and false. first of all, not all member states have cut their budgets and no member state has decided to cut their national budget up until 2020, so why should the european union? we should hopefully be out of the crisis by then. secondly, the main priority in this situation, when the role of the eu is more difficult and more important than ever, should be to safeguard the functioning, the unity and the future of the union, even if it comes at a cost. parliament has been quite clear about what we need in order to grant consent to the new financial framework. everyone should understand that the consent procedure gives parliament the right of veto. we do not need any major increase, but we do need a budget strong enough to match crucial priorities, investments in sustainability, growth and jobs, particularly youth unemployment and infrastructure, as well as to play a major role in the world. we need a budget that is flexible enough not just to meet present needs, but also the need for the future up to 2020, including a binding mid-term revision. we need a process towards more own resources stable enough to reduce the national direct contributions so controversial and detrimental to eu solidarity. i would like to ask the prime minister, even though mr van rompuy is now heading the negotiations, what he can do to deliver on those needs in order to avoid a veto from parliament?
madam president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the irish presidency and look forward to working with it. as early as the 1999 tampere programme, the eu institutions committed themselves to creating a common asylum package. that ambition has been repeated, but the package is still not in place. because it is difficult - in times of economic crisis, member states have been reluctant to live up to their commitments. i am the rapporteur for the dublin regulation, which was concluded last autumn with the trialogue negotiations, just as the reception directive is concluded for parliament. both these reports were to have been adopted here in strasbourg this week. now this has not happened because the council has been unwilling to deal with this, quite simply. parliament expressed its deep disappointment at this. i now call on the irish presidency to do its utmost to ensure that these two reports are completed and ready as soon as possible. the message is clear: parliament is continuing its work on eurodac and the procedural directive so that the asylum package can be in place shortly. i wish the irish presidency all the best and, above all, much perseverance in its work this year, and look forward to our cooperation.
madam president, i should like to welcome the irish presidency and thank the taoiseach for the leadership that ireland has demonstrated in getting out of the crisis. i have four points for the taoiseach. firstly, croatia: ensure the accession of croatia without any member states blocking the enlargement because of bilateral conflicts. that is one of the most important challenges you have. secondly: keep the union together; focus on the reforms that can unite us and make the european economy stronger, not on the very many institutional changes that can divide us. thirdly, the european budget: focus on the spending and the powers of the budget that can make europe a strong knowledge economy. agriculture is important but even more important are research, science and securing the leadership regarding modern society’s infrastructure. fourthly: the reforms which we need to implement all over europe, at european level as well as at member state level, reforms which can attract investments. we do not see today any opportunities to stimulate our economies by deficits and spending, and we have seen that they do not help, but we can ensure that we attract all the private investments which can make the european economy strong and prosperous. ensure that we carry out the reforms regarding telecoms, regarding the energy market, regarding the digital economy, which can give us the leadership. you have much to do and you can achieve it because you have demonstrated that ireland can make a difference.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i don't subscribe to the conspiracy theories mr. callanan presented here. however, i am speaking for the swedish delegation in my group, not the whole group, on the basis that we are in no hurry with regard to the calendar. the calendar we are already working on and which has already been decided, it looks the same until the summer break, so we lose nothing by taking a little extra time or rather, allowing afco, the constitutional committee, to take a little more time to analyse the consequences of the ecj's ruling.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the regulation of credit rating agencies. we voted in favour because we think it is good that this activity is regulated, not least because credit ratings are still used as a reference in legislation and monetary policy. we do not think, however, that it is right, as some parts of the proposal claim, to regulate in detail how credit ratings are set and when they may be changed, etc. we are also against the idea of exploring the possibility of establishing a european credit rating agency. however, in the light of the above, we decided to support the two proposals with this reservation.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the regulation of credit rating agencies. we voted in favour because we think it is good that this activity is regulated, not least because credit ratings are still used as a reference in legislation and monetary policy. we do not think, however, that it is right, as some parts of the proposal claim, to regulate in detail how credit ratings are set and when they may be changed, etc. we are also against the idea of exploring the possibility of establishing a european credit rating agency. however, in the light of the above, we decided to support the two proposals with this reservation.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote. naturally it is good that the eu is trying to find ways to fight youth unemployment, but the issue of mass youth unemployment is not separate from the economic policy of the european union. the neo-liberal dogma dominating the eu commission and the council has led to severe austerity policies around europe. these policies are deepening the economic crisis, causing even more unemployment among young people. we need a new economic policy with ambitious government spending, to create millions of new green jobs. this is also the way to bring down the deficit. most importantly of all, we need to do it now. many years of very high unemployment do extreme damage to societies. there is also the risk that the youth guarantee is constructed in a way so that, as in sweden, it leads to bad working conditions, employers abusing the system and lower wages. a new economic policy can also have its own youth guarantee, which guarantees young people real rights to qualified, adequately paid and stable employment and social security.
in writing. - i abstained on the youth guarantee. it is not the eu's competence and the eu itself has created many of the problems with its failed policy of defending the euro. in addition, there was a call for increased eu funding. it is the responsibility of society to raise enough tax money to provide that service and to make the necessary investments and to ensure that people are educated and trained to carry out those initiatives. general courses without a clear purpose or work for the sake of work have given people even less self-esteem. on the other hand, apprenticeships and traineeships, where you gain new skills and establish contacts that can lead to employment, are meaningful and important, and that is why i am not voting against them.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today against the berès resolution on the establishment of a youth guarantee in europe; however, i would like to make it clear through this explanation of vote that i share the resolution's description of the problems and concerns about the very high level of youth unemployment in europe, but i do not believe that a youth guarantee at eu level is the right way to deal with youth unemployment. the eu cannot, as the text says, 'guarantee all young eu citizens a high-quality job offer ... within four months of becoming unemployed'. the principle of subsidiarity in labour market policy must apply and countries must not be able to abdicate their responsibilities and expect the eu to intervene.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. careful balancing and impact assessments will be required before the proposal is eventually implemented. however, in view of the serious situation in the euro area, we see this as a matter on which the euro countries must take the decisive decisions. we will participate in the further discussion. however, it would be unreasonable for us as parliamentarians from a non-euro country to prevent the euro countries from moving forward on this issue.
in writing. - we abstain in the vote because we do not believe that a joint issue of government bonds (stability bonds) is the right way to solve the euro area debt crisis in the short term. while stability bonds can in the long run create greater stability in the euro area and lower borrowing costs for countries with financing problems, such a model risks at present creating the wrong incentives for both those member states managing their economies and those with high debt. the introduction of stability bonds also implies a very significant economic and institutional change with long-term consequences for the sovereignty of the member states. legal, constitutional and institutional issues must therefore be clarified before any introduction can be considered. a fundamental prerequisite for a common issuance of bonds in the euro area is also that these member states have significantly reduced their current deficit and debt levels. furthermore, there must be public acceptance of the major changes and possible risks that stability bonds would entail. we therefore want to stress the importance of a public debate on the pros and cons of introducing common bonds.
mr president, i would like to thank you. citizens don't know if their money is being used properly. as we have heard here now, enormous sums of money are lost every year through corruption and inadequate control systems. the corruption mentioned here has also reached this house, which is, in its way, appalling. organized crime takes advantage of europe's open borders and free movement. this applies to tax fraud, misuse of european funds and money laundering. as we have heard, this cannot go on. we need to find the people who did this. as mr barnier pointed out, the commission has put forward a number of proposals to simplify and make more effective the means of reaching out to those responsible. you can confiscate assets connected to a crime. this is good. commissioner malmström, as also mentioned by commissioner barnier, has also come forward with initiatives against corruption and fraud. there is a toolbox today to get to organized crime, but as we hear, it's not enough. further cooperation between member states is needed. europol needs a real mandate from the european union. i think we should have a european fbi, can you imagine? the european ombudsman must also be established. open borders are the foundation of the eu, but an open society where criminals are not allowed to roam freely requires more cooperation. to get to the bad guys, we need common ground. as has been noted, today criminal gangs can take advantage of the differences in laws between countries. we cannot accept this. the citizens won't accept it either. it is good to hear, madam minister, that the irish presidency will give priority to this important issue. i believe that this is vital for the continued confidence of the citizens in the eu. ms macovei said at the end of her speech: follow the money. i totally agree. we have to follow the money, and there we will find the crooks.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by praising commission president barroso for his initial handling of the corruption scandal involving john dalli and the swedish mafia. president barroso received a report from olaf saying that there was corruption here. he acted on it swiftly and correctly by dismissing the corrupt commissioner. so far, the swedish company that notified, olaf, which carried out an investigation and produced strong evidence, and barroso, who acted, have all acted in an exemplary manner. the commission has since made two mistakes. first of all, the olaf report should have been published. it is not acceptable that the public should not know what has happened in such a serious case. secondly, what message does it send that the directive has been simply passed without looking at the consequences of corruption? the signal that the commission is sending by not reviewing the tobacco directive is that bribery is prohibited, but that those who do not pay are to blame. i find that signal totally unacceptable. i would therefore like the commission to consider this matter once again. as i said, it was good to act immediately, but the political consequence must not be that you are punished.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree with gianluca susta. for me, this is about free trade between continents but also within regions. it has always been clear to me that europe has developed through free trade. generally speaking, developed countries have done so with open borders and free trade. the agreement also contains clauses, as has been mentioned, to deal with violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. eight of the eleven states in southern and eastern africa are among the least developed in the world. in 2011, eu trade with the region amounted to almost eur 3 billion. that's a lot of money. free trade once helped europe to develop economically. why not give other countries the same chance? i'm going to vote for the deal. and i have a final question for the commission and to the commissioner. i have some doubts about zimbabwe. is zimbabwe ready to be a part of this partnership? mr mugabe is still there.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am replacing in this debate my colleague mr šemeta, who is on a round trip to a number of member states to prepare the ecofin council later on next week. the commission shares the concerns of the honourable members to reduce red tape and increase predictability for our traders. this is why, with the draft union customs code, we amend the current provisions of the code to make clear that eu non-preferential rules of origin apply only to imports. exports are not concerned here, so there will be no changes to the current practice. this is in line with wto commitments. we need to make sure that all member states apply one set of rules consistently. uniform implementation is a basic principle and an eu obligation, which i am sure the european parliament wants the commission and the member states to adhere to. on the import side, we have not yet made any proposal for implementing provisions pending the adoption of the union customs code. the commission confirms that the principle of last substantial transformation is enshrined in the wto agreement on rules of origin and in the eu customs code. this will continue to apply under the union customs code. currently, eu implementing provisions on the principle of last substantial transformation exist only for a limited number of products. some discussions have taken place in the customs code committee origin section to explore the possibility of establishing such provisions product by product, while taking account of the needs of smes. the commission considers that such clearer rules could make origin determination more predictable and ensure better application of the trade measures such as anti-dumping and other trade defence instruments and safeguard mechanisms. it should not be for the exporting country to determine the non-preferential origin of products. indeed, pending completion of the harmonisation work programme in the wto, importing countries are entitled to define the country of origin of goods imported into their territory, under strict conditions. pending agreement in the wto, it would not be in the interest of the eu to accept, a priori, whatever origin determination of imported goods is made by the authorities of the exporting countries. doing so would undermine the eu’s capacity to negotiate in the wto. in line with wto obligations, when an eu good is imported into a third country, the rules of origin of that third country – not of the exporting country – are the rules to be used to define its originating status in that third country. the requirements for accepting eu originating status of eu products exported to third countries are for those third countries to decide. any acceptance by third countries of non-preferential certificates of origin, issued for example by chambers of commerce in an eu member state, is purely voluntary and cannot be determined by eu regulation. the commission has no intention to introduce detailed rules for exports, so an image problem for european manufacturers does not arise, nor will there be any new need to assist operators. finally, i would like to convey again commissioner šemeta’s apologies for not being able to join us this evening. on the other hand, i believe it is a very fortunate moment to have this discussion, as we are actively preparing mc9 – the ministerial conference of the world trade organization – in december of this year, which will be discussing trade facilitation, and there uniform rules of origin are very important because that will in fact simplify the entry of goods into the european union and will be a contribution to the whole debate on trade facilitation.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. sometimes the most important things are some of the most complicated, and have the most bizarre names and titles, such as customs regulations or rules of origin for goods not covered by preferential trade. i think this is just such a thing; something that is extremely important but also quite complicated. perhaps that is why, unfortunately, very few members are interested in it, and why it is so readily debated in the middle of the night in strasbourg. but this is very, very important. determining the origin of an item is very complicated. i think of the shirt i'm wearing, whose cotton comes from egypt, is woven in italy and sewn in hong kong. in the past, things were so much easier when a product was made in a country and was determined to belong to that country, to come from that country. but i believe that the most complex reality must be met by the simplest and clearest legislation. that is what has been troubling me about this particular issue. so far we have used the rule of last valuable processing to determine the country of origin, and i am pleased to hear the commissioner say that we will continue to use that rule. so far we have been clear that it is the exporting country that decides, but what we have seen is that the commission now wants to give the eu more power to decide which country is to be the country of origin, so that it is more the importing country that decides. i understand the ambition to make things more difficult and to avoid anti-dumping duties, but it is still a very small part of our trade - 0.7 per cent - that is actually covered by anti-dumping duties, so therefore the question is whether it is really worth it. i also hear the commissioner saying that these are to be simplifications and not changes, and i am glad you point that out. but i think the concern that our traders and importers have shown in this regard speaks for itself. i also know that a number of member states are concerned, not least because the proposal is partly based on a draft from the wto. draft laws are usually a poor basis for legislation. i think it would be better to wait until the wto negotiations on this issue are over before making any changes. i therefore hope that we can take the commissioner at his word that the essential final processing will continue to be decisive, and that we will base trade and rules of origin on the exporting country, and not build up our own bureaucracy to try to do the same. thank you, sir. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer "blue card". mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. yes, daniel caspary, i think i see the commissioner in much the same way. that's part of the problem, i think, the claim that this doesn't change anything, you can ask yourself why we're doing this. in particular, i think we should be careful about making changes that we do not think our trading partners would make in the same way. because if they did the same, maybe we'd react. if they were to make a different assessment of what should be the rules of origin than what we have decided here when we choose to export something. i think that much of this debate is really about the same problem that we are going to discuss tomorrow with regard to the 'made in' legislation on mandatory origin labelling. i hope the commission will also withdraw this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by welcoming the commission's withdrawal of this regulation on the marking of origin of products from third countries. last night we met here and we debated the rules of origin and the problems of establishing rules of origin simply. we were also concerned that the eu would choose to unilaterally set rules of origin. i took the example of my shirt, and it is probably just as relevant today, whose cotton comes from egypt, is woven in italy and sewn in hong kong. now we hear many advocates of compulsory origin labelling talking about safety and working conditions and the environment, but we all know that the differences are often greater between factories in the same country than they can be between countries. i would also like to remind you that we have indeed discussed introducing mandatory origin labelling on products made in the eu, mandatory 'made in the european union', but we have rejected that because it was bureaucratic and expensive and something that companies did not want. so i do not understand why we want to impose this on what is imported into the eu. i think that companies, if consumers want to, will themselves use more of the origin labels. this bill is lost and i think it's gonna stay that way. let's make peace. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer "blue card". thank you very much. this is really becoming a tradition. instead, europe should focus on doing the hard things, which require global supply chains. if we try to maintain production where we are not globally competitive, for example by producing t-shirts in europe, with bureaucracy, tariffs and protectionism, then we will be the losers in global competition. i met the vietnamese chamber of commerce in vietnam, which stated that the vietnamese population will never be able to be supported by the production of shoes alone. if we continue to hold on to something that we're not globally competitive on, we're going to find that china is going to export jumbo jets to europe while we're exporting t-shirts to them. then we're going to be losers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by saying that i am glad that the european parliament now seems to be taking a stand on these negotiations and that they are getting off the ground. it is a very controversial issue here in parliament, but the fact is that if we strengthen our relations with mercosur, we will gain many benefits. it affects over 800 million people in europe and south america. it is difficult; one should not underestimate the difficulties of these negotiations. it challenges some of the protectionism which unfortunately still exists in the agricultural sector in europe. but above all, it challenges very much the protectionism that south america has in terms of industrial production. that is why i believe that these negotiations could achieve so much. the eu and south america are truly complementary. the eu is south america's main export destination for agricultural products, while eu exports to south america are mainly focused on industrial products and services. the agreement would therefore enable european consumers to have cheap agricultural products and cheaper food on their plates, while our businesses would gain access to additional markets with high growth and high investment needs, now when they need it most. the negotiations that have the greatest economic benefits tend also to be the most difficult to conclude. i therefore urge the commission not to give up. i'd be happy if you could also present some sort of plan b. it is not the first time that we have negotiated with a region, we did the same thing with asean once, but we found it difficult to have a single negotiation with that region. could we not imagine breaking out of one of the countries if we are standing still, brazil for example? we all know that brazil may be the biggest beneficiary of europe, but it also needs our products. so keep up the tough negotiations, but also make sure you have a plan b so that we don't get stuck at a point where we're not going anywhere. thank you, sir.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? for almost two years, we have seen the bahraini government meet peaceful protests with tear gas, democratic arguments with torture, human rights demands with imprisonment, and press freedom with travel bans. i have one word to say to the rulers of bahrain - stop it, please! it is also good that in our resolution we propose a ban on the export of surveillance equipment, tear gas and other means of repression which they have used. i think that those who have demonstrated have shown admirable patience. it is important that the un and the eu act vigorously to help the bahraini people to overcome the abuses before civil war breaks out. we also have a special responsibility for the european citizens who are currently in prison. i am thinking, among others, of a swede named mohammed habib al-muqdad. thank you, sir.
for the alde group. madam president and commissioner! i shall not speak specifically about the aegean islands but i shall speak about agricultural policy in general. we need two completely separate mindsets when we talk about agriculture. of course, wherever possible, we should focus on highly efficient precision farming to ensure that we have enough food. the second extremely important aspect of agricultural policy is the environment. in this case, it is a matter of preserving europe's biodiversity, and we must do so in all the unusual areas that exist: the islands, the mountainous regions, the narrow strips of land along the rivers of northern europe. we must preserve culture and we must preserve traditional farming and production methods. this is central to our human survival because it is about preserving biodiversity, genetic diversity for the future. we must preserve both animals and, above all, plants adapted to the local microclimate, i.e. heat, cold, drought, wetlands, etc. this is as important to our survival as our food supply. thank you, thank you!
writer. - madam president! - what is it? in a month's time, the un commission on women (csw) will hold its 57th session, which will seek to find common positions to combat violence against women more effectively. we in the committee on women's rights and gender equality have therefore put an oral question to the commission and a resolution to send a strong signal that the fight against violence against women and girls must be strengthened at global, local and eu level. our committee is also sending a delegation to csw to reinforce our message. i would like to emphasize that the motion for a resolution is the resolution of the whole committee; we have worked on it together and we want to make this a priority for our colleagues in parliament. i would also like to pay special tribute to my predecessor as president, eva-britt svensson, who worked throughout her time in the european parliament to put these issues at the top of the agenda. she succeeded, and we're continuing her work. let me tell you briefly why it is so crucial to prevent and stop men's violence against women. not a day goes by that we don't read about women who have been beaten to death, women who have been exploited in prostitution, women who have been raped by someone they know and trust. girls and women are threatened with male violence every day of their lives; it is part of their upbringing. this is nothing less than a systematic violation of their human rights. most women set up their lives around the threat of male violence against women. they take different roads when they go home at night, they avoid public transport at certain times of the day, they make sure to go in groups if they are going out to have fun and dance. men's threats of violence and aggression, even when they don't lead to it, are also a form of violence. it diminishes and restricts a woman's freedom of movement. it sets limits on her behavior and establishes an unequal power structure where men are in charge, and women are to set themselves up. violence by men against women is a violation of human rights. it is also one of the biggest obstacles to gender equality. we also need to take this opportunity to shift the focus for a moment to shine a light on those who commit these crimes, those who threaten, beat and murder: the men. many people find it unpleasant to talk about the perpetrators. most people want to emphasize that there are actually quite a few men who do beat up. some would like to suggest that the ones who strike are some special categories of men, social, economic, or cultural. but it's not like that. no, the problem with male violence against women is that it is built into the structure of power in our societies. the men who beat come from all different social classes, all different backgrounds. the only thing they have in common is that they're men. and so the conclusion has to be that we have a common problem in how we shape masculinity in our societies. but, yes, the percentage of men who are beaten and threatened is relatively low. one problem, however, is that very few men are actually actively engaged in working against male violence against women. even those who do not beat or threaten do not often take a clear stand against men's violence against women. our committee has repeatedly raised these issues and pointed out how the eu should work. for example, we have said many times that we want the commission to come forward with proposals for an eu strategy but also a minimum directive on violence against women. of course, we are still waiting for that. we now present an oral question and a resolution setting out some important actions that the eu should take globally. the resolution sets out a number of different aspects and measures, and i will only touch on a few here: the eu delegation has a key role to play in the csw negotiations. the eu delegation must stand up for women's human rights throughout the negotiations. the eu also has a very important role to play in ensuring that there is concrete action and commitment. it is about, for example, information campaigns, it is about an international implementation plan, it is about getting increased resources, and it is about being reflected in eu aid policy and in eu foreign policy. men's violence against women is not a must, it is not something that is predestined. women and girls have the right to live a life without fear, to feel safe in their own bodies, in their own homes, in their own schools, in their own workplaces, in their own public spaces. we as politicians have a responsibility to listen to all the women's organisations and other actors who work on these issues on a daily basis and to take their recommendations to translate them into political action. together we can put an end to violence against women and girls in the eu and globally. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, i would like to start by supporting what my colleague just said, that violence against women and girls is not a matter of religion. it is very important that we recognise that in this house. while culture and tradition should never be used to justify violence against women, one cannot say that it has anything to do with any religion. our hearts have been beating strongly in solidarity for the women raped in india, and we support the uprise of civil society there. at the same time, from afghanistan to europe – in every corner of the world – this widespread violence against women is one of the biggest and most serious violations of human rights. in our neighbourhoods too, our white, christian neighbourhoods, violence against women and girls is not a private issue, although every individual woman and girl deserves respect and care for their personal trauma. it is important to break the silence, break the loneliness and break the vicious circle of guilt and fear of too many women who live in fear and too many children that witness violence. therefore, i call on you, mrs reding, to move forward in the strategy to combat violence against women called for in the stockholm programme a long time ago. i also think that the upcoming meeting of the un commission on the status of women is an opportunity that the eu should not miss to make a very concrete contribution. it should do this by action to implement international humanitarian law for women who are raped in conflict and in refugee camps, to take legislation into countries where domestic workers are not covered by the law, to give access to appropriate healthcare and psychological support, and to create more shelters to ensure the protection of victims. in the eu we have adopted a number of steps forward, but they are not yet being implemented: the european protection order, and the legislation on the protection of victims and the criminalisation of trafficking. we call on member states to implement these. the time for action has come, and i hope this parliament will continue to be committed and stand up for zero tolerance to impunity. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8).
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question. as i said, it is a phenomenon that is global, it is european and it is in every single neighbourhood. in britain you do not have only muslim people – it is a multicultural society – and i am sure that you will be able to provide us with figures that crimes against girls and women are not committed only by muslim people. i hope you will do it in this house.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is terrible to have to stand here and ask for the safety of women in europe in 2013. but i'm afraid it is necessary. the issue must be placed high on the agenda both at eu level and in the member states. i therefore wholeheartedly support the work of femm in prioritising this issue, as the un is doing this year. despite the support of the reding group, i would like to see more effort on the part of the commission. two years ago, we social democrats in the european parliament raised this problem. at that time, seven women were beaten to death every day, and the numbers haven't exactly gone down. violence against women must be taken seriously and the commission must ensure that the eu has the tools to support the work of the un to prevent the continuation of violence. we also know that one in three women will be beaten or raped in her lifetime and that cannot be accepted under any circumstances. i therefore call on the commission to present concrete measures against male violence against women. thank you, thank you!
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr de backer for his excellent report. small businesses are the backbone of the eu. wealth must be created before it can be distributed, and then we must prioritise solutions that help small entrepreneurs. we can make the eu competitive again, but then europe's small businesses must know that they have our and the eu's support, not least female entrepreneurs. the commission and the member states have a responsibility to spread awareness of the possibilities for support and assistance for small businesses and small entrepreneurs. an important programme which i myself negotiated is cosme, the commission's funding for more competitive small businesses. the european parliament called for a reduction in the regulatory burden, a second chance for entrepreneurs and increased access to markets outside the eu. i hope that the member states will now support our proposal and not water it down. the eu provides support in the form of grants, loans and, in some cases, guarantees. this is done directly from the eu or through national intermediaries. this is good, but there is no general awareness of the existence of the aid and how to access this funding. this is what philippe de backer said. at the sme day in parliament last year it was clear that there was a great deal of ignorance about what the eu has to offer in terms of project support and financial support and also other support. we're gonna have to do a lot better here. the lack of money has made many good ideas never come to fruition. financing is available in the form of bank loans, but the economic crisis has made it increasingly difficult to obtain loans, as banks impose higher security requirements and tougher conditions. clear and transparent criteria for funding reduce the risk that well-founded proposals will be rejected. when i ask entrepreneurs what they want, the answer is: simpler rules, lower taxes and closer cooperation between society and business. we all have a great responsibility here. (applause) i would like to thank you. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer is "blue card". mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, paul rübig, that was an interesting question, although you may have answered it yourself. of course, it can help to assist. however, i do not think that we can solve this problem with the support of the eu alone, but rather that significant measures are needed at the domestic level in the member states, and here i would like to say that we need simpler rules, better tax rules, less bureaucracy and perhaps also a more flexible labour market that gives young people the opportunity to enter without major threshold effects. denmark is a good example of how flexicurity works.
in writing. older people can have a better life with the help of technological progress and innovation. many older people may not discover communication technologies and the internet until after retirement. the ease with which people can stay in touch with friends, family and carers has great potential to enrich europe's older people. digital technologies have other benefits. in the final stages of life, when the need for care becomes especially great, such inventions as safety alarms with built-in video and voice functions can help relatives and acquaintances to quickly get in touch with the elderly. however, such innovations require that we have a neutral platform to launch them on. we need net neutrality and an open internet without unnecessary commercial blocks that hinder the launch of new technological tools. that is why we as a parliament need to keep a close eye on what commissioner neelie kroes will write for recommendations to telecom operators. we have strong indications that the commissioner-in-office is not able to preserve the platforms we need to ensure that everyone, young and old, has a dignified and constructive presence in the news.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, tomorrow this parliament has the chance to end over-fishing, not only in europe but also in other parts of the world. we are now importing 65% of all the fish that we consume; we are the world’s largest fish market. that is clearly not sustainable. the commissioner has made it clear that if the eu does not radically reform its common fisheries policy now, only eight out of all the commercially exploited fish stocks will be at sustainable levels in 2022. that would mean importing more and fishing more elsewhere, and just going on destroying what is left of our once-abundant seas. tomorrow we will have the responsibility and the opportunity to change this destructive route. the rodust report, as adopted in the committee on fisheries, was a real step towards ending over-fishing. we want to impose the obligation to rebuild fish stocks, and not just to minimum levels where they possibly could produce a steady yield; we want to rebuild them to a level exceeding this. norway and russia have proved that this is possible. in the barents sea, if they had aimed to keep the cod stock at maximum sustainable yield (msy) levels they would now only have half a million tonnes of spawning stock biomass there. but they have aimed to rebuild the stock above msy levels, and they now have two million tonnes – four times msy levels. this proves that it is not only environmentally sound to rebuild fish stocks above minimum msy levels, but it also means good business. fish a little less now and spend a lot less money trying, and earn a lot more money in the future. that is the good future we want to see for the fishermen of europe. if we aim only at msy levels we are condemning fishermen to continue to struggle where stocks are balancing at the point of msy and could at any time be deemed over-fished, which would mean that limits would have to be imposed on fishing. fishermen do not want that; they want stability in catches, they want safe investments and they want to be able to tell their banks that they are going to have a future because stocks are so abundant that there are no risks at all involved in their fisheries. i am very happy that the majority of our fisheries committee supported this view, and i hope to see even stronger support from parliament as a whole. we must also recall the position of the council, which i find quite shocking. they, too, commit to rebuilding fish stocks in their approach, but have made a little addition: the two words ‘where possible’, without defining ‘where possible’. i think it is very important that citizens of europe are made aware of this. member states have not thought it ‘possible’ to set quotas at sustainable levels over the last 30 years, so why would they now think it is possible? the eu should show leadership on sustainable fisheries to the rest of the world. i want to thank ms rodust and all our colleagues because we are on the way to achieving that together. i agree with mr coveney that we need a modernisation of fisheries policy.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there is a lot to be said about fisheries policy, but i can only make two brief comments. first of all: we have to stop the waste of completely edible fish being thrown overboard. we need a ban on this to ensure sustainable fishing. all catches must be landed. nothing is to be thrown back into the sea. secondly, as regards the maximum sustainable yield (msy): today, two out of three fish species are overfished. to be above msy is to be above this problem. it is to think about the future, to put oneself on the safe side rather than risking the disappearance of fish stocks. if we apply stricter rules for a number of years now, by 2020 the fishing industry could have increased catches, increased fishermen's wages and created thousands of new jobs. to achieve sustainable fisheries that respect our ecosystems, we need to take important steps today. the proposals of the committee on fisheries are good and could certainly be strengthened further. but i ask everyone to put aside short-term interests and instead look at the big picture. it will pay off in the future with more fish, with bigger fish, many more jobs in the fishing industry and strengthened ecosystems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are at a point where we can make a historic decision, and my heroes in this context are the commissioner and our rapporteur, ulrike rodust. i'm glad we can put an end to the predatory fishing and have a sustainable policy. i want to mention two things that are also important. one is fish farming, which previous speakers were in on. it is a growing market in northern europe and we must ensure that it is done in a sustainable way. it creates jobs, but it has to be done in an environmentally sustainable way, and there we have a job to do to say what is sustainable and what is not. the second is sport/recreational fishing, which is so incredibly important to the growing tourist industry. we must not destroy what we have in sweden, which is very good, namely local fisheries management areas where all stakeholders are involved and take responsibility and own the issue of sustainable fishing in their area. this is of great importance for sport fishing and i want us to be vigilant about it and it must not be broken up by eu directives.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on two reports on agriculture in the outermost regions, which include french, portuguese and spanish colonies such as guadeloupe, the azores and the canary islands, and the greek islands in the aegean sea. the islands receive most of their income from tourism. production is not primarily agricultural, nor is income derived from it. the conditions for farming are not ideal. transporting products from french guiana in south america and from the azores in the middle of the atlantic to a european market is neither market nor environmentally sustainable. the report argues that for these reasons the eu should provide additional production, export and import support. i believe that a major reform of the agricultural policy would be preferable, making it easier for eu citizens to trade with non-eu countries too. the reports also contain other problematic writings, relating to the "impact of immigration on the situation on the islands" and calling for greater investment in coupled support. the nature of the market economy is to change markets and to reorient production towards new goods and new customers. these islands already have a thriving tourist industry to develop further. making people dependent on aid and subsidies does not help them or their descendants. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: we are particularly opposed to the proposed increase in agricultural appropriations for the outermost regions of the union. nor can we support the inclusion of tobacco production in the posei framework, nor the €40 million in sectoral aid granted to the banana sector for 2013.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the reason is that my party opposes the eu's common agricultural policy. this is because we are anti-federalists and believe that agricultural policy should be re-nationalised. agricultural policies also lead to a huge waste of resources, contribute to environmental degradation and to the poor export prospects of agricultural products from many countries in the global south. the majority of the outermost regions of the eu belong to france for historical reasons. they were former french colonies that were later declared departments of the french state. we believe that france has its own historic responsibility to lift these regions out of poverty and vulnerability.
in writing. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
madam president, i must say i am surprised by how the socialist group is insisting on repeating the mistakes that have brought europe into crisis. repeating and repeating. all over europe, we can see that where we have had big spending and big deficits, we have a big crisis. in each country. if the solution to our problems were big spending and big deficits, dear socialists, we wouldn’t have any problems. because the reality is that where your policies have been tried, with the deficits and the big spending, we have the worst crisis and the biggest threats to prosperity and social security. just take a look at the reality. you are still attacking the adjustment to reality. you are still attacking the consolidation of public finances. take a look at those countries where we have had a policy of consolidated public finances. we have growth. in those countries where we have followed your policies, we have crisis. couldn’t you ever question this dogmatic belief in increased spending and big deficits? it is hurting europe and undermining the opportunities for jobs and social security. we need another line, a policy that creates investments. then you need to use the european semester for the internal market implementation, for the stability of public finances and for market reforms, so we can achieve the investments that are being frightened off by the big public spending you are advocating. stop attacking a serious and responsible economic policy, because you are attacking prosperity and welfare. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question; you are raising an important issue. my point is that i am not attacking any government; i am attacking and criticising the policies that you now are advocating. you want to repeat the mistakes that we can see so clearly fail. it does not matter which government implemented these policies, you can deal with that in the domestic policies of each of our countries, the problem is that you are advocating repeating a policy that has caused severe problems and is threatening jobs and social security. that is the problem.
mr president, twenty years after the birth of the single market toys are still retested, extra certificates are required, on-line payment is still complicated and, too often, non-nationals have to pay more to get travel packages. in an open europe, this is not acceptable: double regulations, restrictions and uncertainty about the rules create delays and costs. most of all, they deprive the citizens of europe of the benefits of free movement. with the level of unemployment that we have, we cannot ignore these obstacles. let us focus on what we have and make it work. we have to move from micro-regulating and over-regulating to correctly implementing and fully enforcing. in sweden today, thousands of travellers are struggling because they have been asked for extra registration requirements to buy a ticket that costs two euros to get on a bus. it turns out that this is an interpretation of an eu directive. the original aim of the directive was to simplify – to facilitate – payment, to boost e-commerce. this shows me that mr schwab’s report is timely and appropriate. we need to work more closely and coordinate with the national parliaments. we need dialogue at an early stage with the national institutions. it is too easy to always point the finger at brussels’ legislation. let us take our shared responsibility and work together and look at how the rules are transposed and how the rules are enforced. i also welcome commissioner barnier’s zero tolerance policy against breaches of the internal market, because monitoring increases effectiveness, and the fact that the internal market now has its own space in the european semester will make it more effective. mr president, i conclude by saying that effective governance of the single market is not about reinventing the wheel, it is about making the wheel roll.
mr president, consumers in europe will neither accept chocolate produced by children who have to pick cocoa instead of going to school, nor clothes that are produced by women working 15 hours a day. an increase in consumer awareness means that consumers will want to buy from companies that are acting in a fair and sustainable way as good citizens. it is ultimately consumer empowerment that will encourage responsible business; imposing top-down restriction is not necessarily the best way. let us keep in mind that any extra costs are ultimately passed on to consumers. measures that are shared and owned by stakeholders have a better chance. structured self-regulation, engaging in dialogue with industry, taking shared responsibility with tough monitoring and reporting requirements, that is the way ahead. there are examples: industry joining in efforts to combat obesity and diabetes in children via marketing, retailers taking voluntary action against food weight. is it enough? no. we continue to put pressure... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. no doubt noise is an important health issue and it is of course important to reduce noise from cars. the fact that there are many other ways of doing this does not prevent us from actually making demands on where the vehicle actually comes from, because all the other measures seem to be much, much more expensive and cumbersome. it is also important that we reduce noise so that more housing can be built in cities as we want to do. at the same time, we know that the automotive industry is going through a tough time, and we also know that they have another very big challenge ahead of them, which is to transition to more climate-smart technology and reduce carbon emissions. we also know that this is an industry with very long lead times, particularly for heavy trucks but also for passenger cars. it is therefore important that we extend the lead times and it is also good that all the proposals tomorrow mean exactly that.
mr president, mr van rompuy said yesterday ‘we will this week, for the first time ever, decide on a real-terms cut compared to the current budget’. i welcome the fact that he admits to a real-terms cut, not a freeze, which some leaders and mr callanan still try to make us believe. we hear rumours of an extra eur 15 billion cut on top of what was announced in november. in that case, ceilings will be cut down to 2005 levels. this also means that mr van rompuy’s justification for the cuts is, i quote: ‘the budget must be a budget of moderation, reflecting the savings efforts in our member states’. but that is false! no member state calling for these cuts has reduced its own budget down to 2005 levels, and has certainly not taken any decision to maintain that level up to 2020. some blame us for an extreme spending policy. it is not true! we could live with a real-terms freeze. still, my group has five modest claims. firstly, an overall level that corresponds to our responsibilities, decided by the council itself, the lisbon treaty, the eu 2020 strategy, the millennium development goals and the jobs and growth pact. secondly, a solution to the mountain of unpaid bills we have before us. we cannot turn the eu budget into a deficit budget. thirdly, a modernisation programme able to address our priorities like research, youth unemployment, infrastructure and climate policies. fourthly, a more flexible budget; a binding mid-term revision is a minimum requirement. fifthly, progress on the financing of the budget, a move towards creating more own resources. without progress on these points i do not think our parliament can accept the council’s proposals. but we are not unreasonable. if we do not accept, let us see it as an invitation to serious negotiations. in this tough situation, let us find a common way to strengthen the union, not weaken it.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. we find it very problematic that the swedish model for the decision-making process on generic medicines does not fit within the proposed time limit. that is why we voted against the proposal in the final vote.
in writing. - the transparency directive has been controversial from the swedish point of view. in particular, the swedish government has been concerned that the directive will hamper the swedish generic reform, as the timeframe for the approval processes for generic medicines was narrower in the commission proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the deadline to 30 plus 30 days, and christofer fjellner (m) tabled an amendment to soften the wording and give more flexibility to generic preparations. the commission's proposal was improved by these amendments, which allowed the moderates to vote in favour of the proposal before the house.
in writing. − harmful noise levels are one of the most widespread health problems in the eu and we swedish social democrats want to see measures to reduce the negative impact of noise on people. reduced noise levels are also important for future housing construction. we therefore support lower limits for motor vehicle noise levels, a line also supported by the swedish government. we would point out, however, that we would have liked to see longer lead times for the introduction of these limit values, in order to give the automotive industry a better chance of adapting. this is something we will continue to work on in negotiations with the council. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this means that the regulation and the limit values may be amended if the commission deems it necessary, for example, in the light of technical conditions.
in writing. - reduced noise levels from motor vehicles are important, and clear noise labels for new cars would bring major health benefits. we supported the ambitious proposal of the european parliament's committee on the environment, and although important parts of the proposal were not supported, we voted in favour of the report. the final report is not what we wanted, but it is a basis on which to build.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have the right to speak my own language here in the european parliament, even though i come from a small member state on the outskirts of the eu and even though i am sometimes critical of decisions taken here. compare that to the kurds in turkey now being granted the right to speak their own language in turkish courts. of course, it is good that they have been given that right. but the comparison illustrates dramatically the many steps that turkey still has to take to be able to say that it is approaching the requirements that are self-evident to us who live in europe. it is good that turkey has now opened up to new talks with the pkk no other way is possible either. there is strong support for the peace talks among the turkish population, and as we have heard in this debate, there is also very strong support for them to actually result in clear changes in terms of openness, respect for human rights, upholding human rights and ending discrimination. of course, this also requires the pkk. but there is no other way than to start living as a country as big and as strong as turkey. if you're a big man, you should be nice. if you are a man, you should also know when you cross the border, and a real stain on turkey's reputation is that it does not respect democratically elected political representatives. leyla zana, who has been awarded the sakharov prize and is a member of the turkish parliament for the bdp party, is being hunted around the world despite the fact that she is a member of parliament and a popular elected representative in turkey.
thank you, thank you! there's a lot of talk about us speaking with one voice, but if the price of that is that we're constantly sitting around talking to each other instead of finding solutions with the world around us, then the unified voice isn't going to help. i think the council of ministers should agree in advance and have alternative plans for all possible outcomes and then, when we come to these meetings, all the ministers should spread the message of active global climate action. we should not come to these meetings with empty pockets either, but we should have funding for the countries that need it and we should have interesting trade policy solutions so that we can spread green technology. then maybe we can make it. because, frankly, global climate action is a total failure, and i don't think a simple tech fix is going to do it. we also need to talk about lifestyle changes. a one-sided belief in growth, financed by ever-increasing borrowing, will lead to ever-increasing resource consumption. we need to extract efficiency gains in terms of more time, quality of life and intangible assets to have a chance of solving the climate challenge. we need to think differently financially.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i chose to look on the bright side of the doha meeting. the kyoto process continued, and the train continued to run, despite the fact that we are in a serious economic crisis, not only in europe but also in some other parts of the world. i also choose to see the positive side of commissioner hedegaard's introduction: she will be presenting a green paper and she thinks we should investigate and go deeper into the us track. at the same time, of course, we are at a crossroads, and the future looks bleak. as several speakers have already pointed out, we need to put a lot more pressure on the council. poland must be given the help and the pressure to be a real unifying force which is also prepared to take responsibility - perhaps not to go ahead but still to take a leading role in the time ahead. other countries must also be pressed, including other eu member states. it is not right that the commissioner should be forced to stand in doha and say that it is okay when member states cheat with climate aid, i.e. rename an old ordinary aid to climate aid. the commissioner must have the help of the rest of us to ensure that we have a functioning emissions trading system that does not collapse, while we have an extension of the kyoto protocol. we have far too low ambitions to be able to talk to the united states and china. we actually have to make sure that the council delivers and i do not think, as the commissioner suggested, that it is a question of communication if we are to get through this. it's a matter of delivering, not communicating, and that's where we need help. the fact is that this parliament has its most important task on climate. it is not a question of the elite, it is a question of long-term survival. it is growth policy, industrial policy, energy policy, family policy - all these are crucial to building society.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am one who believes that the challenges we face in europe can only be solved on a sector by sector basis, by working as much as we can to learn more about each other and increase understanding of each other and in this way, in the legal field, to understand and build a common legal culture. i am also convinced that we must ensure that we have a well-functioning european legislative process - a machine if you will - if we are to succeed in the long term. i believe that enhanced legal education is a subject which rarely or never gets a place in the solemn speeches of heads of state or government, but it is a very concrete and practical area where we can, with small efforts, achieve great results in strengthening cohesion and understanding of the different legal traditions of our continent and, in the long run, gain a deeper understanding of the different laws which we also decide on in this house. i am convinced, and the whole liberal group is convinced, that investments in high-quality legal training could serve as fuel in a decision-making machine which is unfortunately increasingly divided these days and characterized by a lack of trust, a great deal of uncertainty and mistrust of each other. to remedy this, we need to increase understanding. jean monnet once said that the european union was not created to bring nations together but to bring people together. i personally think that the training of european lawyers from all the member states is a shining example of how we are shaping this in our time.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank everyone for their contributions to this debate. i have carefully taken note of your concerns and will bring them to the attention of my colleague commissioner cioloş, who is responsible for this dossier, and in doing so i will also be complying with the request of ms lulling. let me reiterate what i said in my opening statement, that the commission is perfectly aware of the sensitivity of this dossier and of the political consequences both at internal and external level. regarding the us applications, the wine agreement between the eu and the us has been respected by both parties. the us applications have been applied for in conformity with eu legislation. of course the eu fully promotes eu geographical indications. however, traditional terms are not intellectual property rights, but labelling particulars. having said that, the commission is still examining the applications concerned, so no decision has been taken. we are continuing to examine those applications, and of course we will take into account the interests of eu wine producers and consumers when we make our decision.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, on behalf of mr casa who regrets that he cannot be here, i will present some of the views that he has been eager to get through in this discussion. first of all, it goes without saying that, in a time of fiscal consolidation and necessary budget efforts, it is also necessary to implement measures that can minimise all the losses to the eu as a whole but also to the individual member states. we cannot accept fraud under any circumstances, and that is why the commission put forward a proposal which is a useful quick fix in tackling vat fraud, which is a problem that is costing all our member states and the eu as a whole billions of euros every year. for example carousel fraud alone cost the eu in the region of eur 14 billion between 2005 and 2006 and, in addition to that, we also get the negative effects regarding those who are dealing with businesses in a legitimate and legal way; it is unfair competition in that sense. the measures that we have tried to combat vat fraud have historically been very much aimed at those who are doing it right – which is a problem because they are doing it right. just changing the legal structures is not enough. you need also to be able to fight those who are ignoring the rules. that is why it is necessary to change the approach to combating vat fraud. all measures which are legitimate will be accepted, of course, but we need to ensure that everyone complies with them, and we need to ensure that those who do not comply with the rules are forced to. mr casa’s report therefore supports the commission’s proposal aimed at preventing further losses through vat fraud, and this proposal would enable member states to deal efficiently with vat fraud through a quick-reaction mechanism. this proposal is small and unambitious but a realistic step in fighting vat fraud. however, to properly combat vat fraud, more needs to be done such as structurally reforming the vat system. parliament is currently preparing an own-initiative report aimed at fighting tax fraud in a more general sense. not only will it support the current commission proposal, it will go beyond in coupling the proposals with long-term strategies to combat tax fraud. it is therefore necessary to restate the message of mr casa’s report in a green paper on vat. a simplified vat system across the eu will assist in reducing the complexity which exists between different member states. it will create a system which is more robust and therefore less susceptible to vat fraud but, i would like to add, also making it easier for entrepreneurs all over europe to deal with business cross-border because that is one of the problems we encounter today when deepening the internal market. despite the benefits of this proposal there is also discussion of whether this means we are entering a new phase of european taxation. i think it is important to say that this is not the case. this is a way of getting better reaction and better opportunities to deal with vat fraud by using the different opportunities in different member states. member states are therefore urged to cooperate and follow this and see the opportunities because this is an advantage for all of us. the more we can fight tax fraud in a simple way, the more we can ensure that honest entrepreneurs and businesses can deal with cross-border business, the better it is. of course it is important to have a brief consultation period prior to the implementation of any anti-fraud measures but the commission’s proposal is a first logical step in combating vat fraud and we welcome that. i appreciate that the commissioner is here and i appreciate that those who have been involved in this dossier are also here to follow up the discussion.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it seems that there is now broad support in parliament for the establishment of a rapid mechanism against vat fraud. i think this is a very positive signal. it is excellent that parliament is leading the way on these kinds of issues. in the fight against tax fraud, there is much to be gained from improving the efficiency and scope of the eu's work. in particular, given that a large proportion of tax fraud today is cross-border, strong eu mechanisms are necessary to be able to put in place the necessary countermeasures. as much as €1 trillion a year is lost in the eu through tax fraud and tax evasion. if we could, with the help of intensified eu cooperation in this area, start to push that figure downwards, it would be of great importance for the stability and sustainability of public finances. the debate in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the commission's proposal for a rapid mechanism against vat fraud has been very constructive. we have agreed on several important reinforcements to the proposal: first, the commission should continuously work to extend the mechanism with additional anti-fraud tools. reverse charge is usually a useful tool, but should be complemented by several. secondly, the transparency of the process should be increased. if all member states and other relevant actors are kept fully informed about what is happening with an application, cooperation will flow better. thirdly, it is essential that the commission has sufficient administrative and human resources to enable the mechanism to operate as quickly and smoothly as it is intended. fourthly, the commission should report regularly on the functioning of the mechanism. fifthly, the commission should also, in addition to the fast-track mechanism, take measures to speed up the ordinary procedure for member states wishing to take specific measures against vat fraud. an objective should be to conclude such a procedure within five months. i hope that this strong signal from parliament can now influence the process in the council of ministers in a positive way. unfortunately, several member states seem to want to delay or even stop the fast track mechanism. that's not good enough! the rapid mechanism is a simple and reasonable improvement to the regulatory framework which should be easy to accept. if we are to seriously tackle tax fraud, this is one of the many steps we must be prepared to take. thank you for the floor, and a big thank you to the rapporteur.
for the alde group. thank you, mr president, commissioner, and also a thank you to mr casa, and i will let gunnar hökmark speak. a common vat system is necessary to promote crossborder trade, it has been pointed out. the eu's vision for a future vat system should be to create a simpler, more efficient and more robust system. it shall be transparent and reduce the administrative burden on businesses. at the same time, such a system must be fraud-proof. today, as has been said here, vast sums of money from the legal economy are going straight into the pockets of the criminals. as gunnar hökmark has indicated, the difficult budgetary negotiations which are still ongoing at the moment show that in the future we will have fewer resources to implement the policies which are essential for creating jobs and growth. we need to protect our resources better. the commissioner has mentioned the carousel fraud, as well as the amount of money that is missing. we have also seen how emissions trading can make billions disappear in just a few moments. the commission and algirdas šemeta have put forward a number of good initiatives to access tax havens and comprehensive tax planning. another good example is eurofishing, an internet tool for the rapid exchange of information between member states. and now we must give the member states better and more effective tools to combat vat fraud as well. vat fraud consists of cross-border criminal networks that exploit the legal and administrative loopholes in the eu vat system in a rapid, coordinated and flexible manner. open borders are good, but as we know, they are also exploited by criminals. as recently as last year, several people were convicted of pretending to sell millions of mobile phones across europe through a brussels logistics company the network managed to steal €203 million before they could be stopped. the commission now proposes that when member states discover widespread and coordinated vat fraud, they should be able to immediately derogate from the vat rules, so that the so-called reverse taxation obligation will be able to stop criminal networks more quickly and effectively. this is good, but we must also bear in mind that this may create administrative burdens and problems for those companies which are honest and want to do the right thing, so we need a balanced solution. the national tax authorities need to improve their risk assessment, where europol has a key role to play in identifying criminal networks and coordinating information between member states. there have been many swedes in this debate, and let me end by quoting nobel prize winner erik axel karlfeldt. he said there were five dangerous f's and that was the bailiff, the man in the forties, the bottle, the girl and the devil and as you know we are good at collecting vat in sweden and it is therefore the bailiff who is an important part here. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, mr rübig, it is a pleasure to have your questions, it was only a few days ago that i received a question, i think it makes the debate in this house better. yes, i think it is. gunnar hökmark started by saying that you should be careful. it is a question of taxes and algirdas šemeta is well aware of this. every time he mentions taxes, it's like a shake-up in the member states. but it is becoming increasingly clear that taxes are being used in a very improper way to commit crimes, and i think that the member states and the eu - even if it may be done gradually and sometimes a little slowly - will realise that more cooperation is needed here. we should also point out that tax policy is a matter for the member states. that is true, but we should be able to work together to tackle tax fraud, we should be able to have more consensus in europe and we should be able to act together.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the members for the views they have expressed during the debate. as you may know, the irish presidency sees this matter as a major priority. however, the positions of member states are still very divergent, and even opposing, on the definition and the application of unanimity in fiscal matters. sometimes it is very difficult to understand when member states which advocate stepping up the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion oppose a concrete proposal from the commission which could be of significant benefit in the fight against vat fraud. your strong support and constructive approach in this area is a very important signal for the member states. as i said earlier, the commission can accept some of the amendments, in particular on the reporting obligations concerning the functioning of the quick reaction mechanism. it will endeavour, as far as possible, to take these amendments into consideration during deliberations in the council. many of you spoke about the broader context of the fight against tax fraud and evasion. i would say to you that we have to look at this initiative as one of the initiatives which are now being presented both to the council and to the parliament. i would remind you that in 2011 the commission adopted the vat strategy. many of its initiatives either have already been proposed or will be proposed soon, such as initiatives for simplification. many of you talked about the need to simplify the vat system. very soon we will put forward a proposal on a standard vat declaration, which will significantly simplify other activities for administrative work and for businesses. for your information, on 1 january 2013 the new system of rules came into force. it has meant that e-invoicing is now considered to be just as valid as paper invoicing; a very important simplification measure. it has also allowed the introduction of cash accounting for small businesses. this means that, if the member states decide to introduce it into their national legislation, small businesses which face problems with cash flow will be able to use this mechanism. issues concerning vat fraud are of course also tackled in the vat strategy. we are also expanding the activity of eurofisc, with a much more efficient exchange of information within the framework of eurofisc and automated access to information. new initiatives will come over the course of this year and next year, and the strategy will be also implemented with the proposal on a definitive vat system. we have to remember that for very many years – 19, i think– we have lived with a transitional vat system. our intention is to present a proposal which will move us to a definitive vat system. the same could be said about the general issue of the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. as i said in my introduction, in december 2012 we adopted an action plan to fight against tax fraud and evasion. there are 34 measures in that action plan, including the quick reaction mechanism. i look forward to the discussions in this parliament on the kleva report and hope that this will also facilitate our fight against tax fraud and evasion. i would like once again to thank the honourable members for their strong support for this initiative.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i regret that mr bloom has left the chamber because i wanted to thank him for his honesty in confessing that he feels he is not as smart as the criminals. i do not know to whom he is comparing himself so i cannot judge if he is right or wrong, but i think we can all admire his open mind in raising that issue here in the plenary. but i would also like, on behalf of mr casa, to thank the commissioner and our colleagues for their comments and cooperation regarding this report, and i will certainly forward to him the kind words that have been said in this debate. i think that even if we will all miss him in this chamber, i am sure that we all wish him good luck in the election campaign in malta. i think it is important to underline one thing, and that is that the fight against fraud and the fight against those committing fraud is a fight for the honest citizen and a fight for fair competition and good opportunities for entrepreneurship. because if we have rules, but some people do not apply these rules, then this makes the situation of those people who are following these rules much more complex. so there is a requirement on all legislators not only to legislate, but also to ensure that the legislation is followed and accepted and implemented, because that is how the rule of law should function. i think that when we talk about carousel fraud this is also a way of underlining the need not only to clarify that the rules should be respected, but also to ensure that we can simplify them. i would like to send that as a one-word message to you, commissioner, to guide your future steps: simplicity. simplicity is the way to defend the honest entrepreneur, the smes and all the other companies who are doing a fair and good job and to hinder the people who are trying to misuse and abuse the rules unlawfully. so simplicity and ensuring that we have fair competition should be the main theme.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we therefore do not want to anticipate events by adopting the pension and other provisions in this report, but instead consider that the matter should be dealt with in the staff regulations.
in writing. − the economic crisis left a deep mark and eu member states are still making large savings. in such a situation, i believe that the eu institutions and authorities should show solidarity and, in the same way, save where possible. that is why i voted in favour of the amendment calling for further cuts in the 2014 budget for the eu administration. the european parliament is already reviewing staff costs. this is welcome, and to highlight the importance of actually revising the staff regulations, i voted in favour of the amendments to adapt pensions to the demographic challenges of the future.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. exactly 60 years ago, we had the last major polio epidemic in my home country of sweden. 3,000 people were stricken with paralytic polio, which leads to paralysis of varying degrees. in 1977, we had the last recorded case of polio in my country. a successful vaccination campaign was launched. it is extremely tragic that a whole generation of children in this part of the world, pakistan -- but it will also spread if we don't get polio under control -- will be afflicted with this kind of paralysis that we associate with the history of our own countries. it's important that everyone understands that aid workers who want to help children with immunization programs are exactly that. i can call myself a fundamentalist: i'm a fundamentalist against polio. that kind of fundamentalism is good. the problem is that it's also linked to poverty. a common route of transmission of polio is through feces and poor toilet hygiene. but it's also linked to poverty. first of all, we need vaccination programmes, but we also need a fairer distribution of the wealth that is being created in pakistan. this is the key to fighting not only polio in pakistan but also poverty. either way, we have a great deal of work to do.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are dealing with three reports today and i have only one and a half minutes to deal with all three. the first report: as regards gender stereotypes, i agree with almost everything that my colleague, kartika tamara liotard, said. thank you kartika! as regards the situation of women in north africa, it is a very good report by silvia costa, who has really captured the most important point. perhaps we should have included western sahara, even if the report is only addressed to countries affected by the arab spring. the third report on the financial crisis and gender equality is also a very important document which highlights how economic policy always has a gender dimension. economic problems can always be solved in such a way that they affect women and men equally or differently. the eu's austerity measures are now sweeping in and hitting hard and relentlessly at those who were already suffering, and it is women who are paying the highest price for public cuts. their labour market is being reduced to a minimum, while the basis for women's economic independence is being destroyed. women are in greatest need of social infrastructure such as childcare and housing for the elderly, and when this is lost, the responsibility is shifted to the family, because someone has to provide this care and someone is usually a woman. in conclusion, i would like to thank elisabeth morin-chartier for a very good job in trying to put together this very difficult report with many different political views.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i fully agree with the rapporteur, kartika tamara liotard, that old-fashioned and outmoded gender stereotypes are a bad thing that should be eliminated because they lock men and women into roles that may not suit them as individuals. the aim must be a society in which each individual is free to be himself, whether he is a man or a woman. i shall vote against the report, however, because of its content. article 17 calls for a ban on all forms of pornography in the media. i don't think that's acceptable to me. i don't see anything negative about pornography in the media. it's a popular form of entertainment and everyone should be free to decide for themselves. it gets even worse if you look at article 14, which says how to ban it. it is the internet operators that should be forced or pressured or encouraged to sign a voluntary charter. it is precisely the same mechanism as in the acta agreement which parliament rejected and we should also reject this report, although its aim is good.
in writing. i'm happy to stand before you today. women's rights and opportunities are important issues for society. personally, i have a strong interest in the involvement of women in science, mathematics and technology. we have a social climate that sees both science and technology as complicated and threatening. it's okay for a top politician to declare that he was never good at math - why? we would not be so forgiving to a politician who was terrible at, say, history or social science. politically, we also see technology primarily as a threat. a good example of this is the report which proposes that companies take responsibility for reducing gender stereotyping. social platforms and internet operators are not necessarily the best actors in society to create independence and self-confidence in women. there is a much greater risk that they will instead consolidate conservative social patterns that i want women to be able to get away from, if they want to. i shall therefore vote against the report by mrs tamara liotard.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? of course, that's the deal. it is important that we get these reporting and statistical rules in place to be able to follow up and also have a good basis for future climate decisions at all political levels. as rapporteur for the committee on development, i also think it is very good that the amount of climate aid given by the member states is now being reported in a way that is understandable to the outside world, and not least to the developing countries. as my colleague bas eickhout has already pointed out, this is a constantly recurring debate and it is very important to bring more facts to the table. in this context, i should also like to express my regret that we are not getting the other criticism that is usually levelled at us industrialised countries straight, namely that we take money from poverty relief to finance climate aid, that is to say that we take with one hand and give with the other. we should have made progress here and i can only hope that in the future we will actually give climate aid in addition to what we already give in poverty reduction aid.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. what hurts climate policy is the disagreement between different countries within the eu and outside the eu, but just as serious, as has been pointed out here, is the inability to follow up on decisions already taken. to meet the climate targets and commitments that the eu member states have signed up to, we need accurate data, we need to have the facts about what is actually being done and what the results of the measures are. so far, the reporting systems have been unreliable. it has been difficult to compare, difficult to evaluate and now we are hopefully changing this, in particular with the proposal we are now discussing on mechanisms for monitoring and reporting emissions of greenhouse gases, among other things, which i, as the socialist shadow rapporteur, support. this proposal will make it possible to follow up the member states' commitments in the field of climate and energy. the reporting and monitoring shall also be extended to renewable energy. i think this is very good. it may sound simple and it may sound obvious, but if we want to put climate policy into practice, we cannot stop at pretty words and we are not doing that now. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer "blue card". this is part of the climate debate to a very large extent, namely the leak. we must ensure that we have a comprehensive global agreement that does not move jobs to countries with lower wages, with poor working conditions or with climate emissions. as a member of both the industry and environment committees, i see the issue of climate as a competitive one. the only way we can compete is to be climate-smart.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was approached not long ago by a german artist who was under pressure from a patent holder. the patent holder thought that this artist would pay a royalty very quickly or face a lawsuit. this isn't the first time that small business owners or artists have come to me because they've been threatened by copyright holders. many people also pay license fees when they don't really need to because they don't know how to defend themselves. we do not know how many people are wrongly paying for these gray licences, because we do not have studies at european level. i admit that the commission has tried to bring more transparency into the patent systems through the industrial policy it recently established, but when we tried to get parliament to investigate also grey, wrongful seizures at union customs, parliament said no. i would urge parliament and all my colleagues to take this problem seriously. it's no fun being a small business owner who's wrongly accused of patent infringement.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, commissioner tonio borg, for taking up a number of the proposals we are making, such as the need for better and more effective sanctions. look at my own country. what happened in the last year alone? we've had 20-year-old, canned defense-readiness meat that was sold and then re-labeled as significantly fresher and they weren't convicted. we have had coloured ox fillets, which in this case came from hungary and were sold as ox fillets, but were coloured pork fillets and so far no one has been convicted for this. we have several other scandals and the horse scandal is coming up. with so many scandals coming up all the time, it's a systemic problem that people think it pays to cheat instead of being honest. we must put an end to this and then the sanctions must be strong enough and the checks must be numerous enough to be a sufficiently high risk of detection. that is why these proposals are good. i am also concerned about the commission's preliminary proposals on controls to allow slaughterhouses to have their own inspectors instead of publicly employed inspectors. i want to have public inspectors all along the chain. the control of the companies is carried out by the authorities and the companies themselves have internal control systems, but these are verified by the authorities, just like the food and veterinary office. we want them to check the government's control system and do sample testing so we can see that it works and also give tips on what works and what doesn't. as you know, we also want the origin label. we have been working on this for several years and the commission has commissioned the study and i hope that you will be quick to come forward with a proposal as soon as the results of the study are available. because consumers want this. they want to know what they're buying and that we're basing it on the beef logic of born, raised and slaughtered. we also want you to facilitate and allow local marketing and local labelling because it makes it easier to have as short a chain as possible between farmer and consumer. the same applies to the rules on public procurement: we should make it easier, not more difficult, for local purchasers to buy fresh food, so that we can reduce the supply chains, because the whole problem is really based on the opacity of the internal market, the lack of clear control and the fact that there are too many links between the consumer and the producer. if there are a lot of lines, there's always someone in the long line who sees a chance to mix in a cheaper or more dangerous product to make an extra euro. so it is important that we make it easier for those who want to be serious and tell their consumers exactly what they are in for and try to reduce these long chains between producer and consumer. only then will we be rid of the cheating too.
madam president, i want to remind colleagues that this is the european parliament. it is not an arena for mud wrestling and i find it quite remarkable that people are laughing, shouting, clapping hands. pay some respect. this is the arena for democracy in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is exciting that we are living in a time when citizens are being heard more easily when they act in their consumer role, and it is good that parliament has once again underlined the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. but while we have consumer resources online, we must not forget that consumers are also exposed to many other online injustices. as users of culture and knowledge, we suffer from a great deal of uncertainty, and i therefore assume that this is not the last time that we european politicians will try to strengthen the role of consumers and the arena for exercising freedom online.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new legislation on alternative dispute resolution and online dispute resolution, which will enhance the possibilities for consumers and businesses to solve claims outside of court through quicker, easier and cheaper procedures. i welcome that this proposal does not reinvent the wheel, but rather builds on existing dispute resolution mechanisms in the member states, while encouraging those countries which do not have one to put one in place. it is also important to raise awareness about these mechanisms and make them known across borders. i therefore support that companies are encouraged to inform customers about which adr they operate under. in addition, i welcome the creation of an online platform, in which standard forms and electronic translation will further facilitate matters for business and consumers. these rules are about making the internal market work more effectively in practice, without tampering with legal certainty.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i voted in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and it is encouraging that both the commission and parliament are paying attention to citizens who work together, build networks of friendship and improve their coexistence. i would like to stress again, however, that we have a very big problem in our entrepreneurship and our intellectual property rights. copyright commercializes all private interactions in a way that does not support either small-scale or social entrepreneurship. everything from shared cultural beliefs to the layout of text messages or user interfaces on websites is being brought into a largely monopolistic market regime. the blindness to patent infringement affects web developers, artists and small business owners, and we largely ignore that problem when we legislate. so i think it is of the utmost importance that we take this entrepreneurship seriously and maybe in the future also take the bull by the horns and actually create a communication model that encourages entrepreneurship and also small business owners.
in writing. − instead of highlighting the important issues of gender equality that can be solved, a number of other issues are highlighted, such as alternative economic models, government budgetary savings and so on. we regret that the report focused on issues other than gender equality and that we were unable to support it.
in writing. - i voted for this report as a whole because it is an important and good report which both describes the problems of gender equality policy with pervasive gender stereotypes and makes important recommendations on how we should act against them. however, for the sake of clarity, i voted against the whole of paragraph 17 (which refers to a 1997 european parliament resolution, including the prohibition of pornography) and also against paragraphs 50 and 51 (eu legislation on gender quotas for company boards).
in writing. - the resolution tabled by the committee on equality before parliament weighed heavily on me before this plenary session. now, our full house has voted to reject industry self-regulation, and a direct reference to a total ban on porn in all media. however, it is extremely unfortunate that we still refer to the 1997 resolution which seeks to combat all pornography in all media. pornography can rightly be considered a very large field of expression, some of which promote a less heavy-handed and conservative view of people's normal interactions. i voted against the resolution because i do not believe that neither we women nor society as a whole are harmed by the realization that sexuality exists and can be portrayed in film or on screen.
in writing. the report goes a long way in the question of how the eu should govern the daily lives and freedoms of its citizens. we consider that issues such as the labour market, education and the media are national issues and therefore cannot support the report.
madam president, mr cioloş, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have been the alde group's shadow rapporteur on the rural development programme and i have to thank luis manuel capoulas santos and all my colleagues in the shadow rapporteur group for a fantastically nice and creative job. it is extremely important that we look at the whole of rural development. it is so obvious that agriculture and forestry are the foundation of the european countryside, wherever we are. but we must also realise that there can be no farmers, especially in the future, unless we have a socially and culturally functioning rural society. as regards the details of all these programmes, i must say that there are some details which i am particularly pleased about, and these are local logistics chains - particularly in the more vulnerable villages - the animal welfare is clearly on the rise, the ecological corridors now seem to be becoming a reality. because the most recent research shows that wild insects are four to six times as important for pollination and crops as domesticated bees. but i - and the whole alde group - have one objection, and that is against market regulation. i am on my knees that we must vote out all possibilities for export subsidies. we cannot pass our problems on to the poorest people on earth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the committee on agriculture's proposals are making clear progress on certain points - mainly, i would say, thanks to our excellent rapporteur, mr luis manuel capoulas santos. thanks a lot to luis. however, on some key points, the majority voted against a progressive line of reform. that is why we social democrats have tabled amendments to restore the erosion of environmental rules, the so-called cross-compliance: the compulsory introduction of a greener use of direct payments. to remove the astonishing idea that a farmer can be paid twice for the same thing. to set a ceiling on the amount of support each landowner can receive. that citizens know who receives eu aid and that export subsidies that harm the agriculture of poorer countries are eliminated. all these proposals were voted down by the epp group of the moderates and the christian democrats. so my question to swedish moderates and christian democrats is: where are you going to change the position of your group and support a progressive reform of agricultural policy?
you know, ask for a blue card. i would like to ask my good friend othmar karas a very simple question. we agreed in the constitutional committee on the principle that each country should have representatives in the parliament according to the number of its citizens. that is the motion in this house. austria, represented inter alia by othmar karas, now wants this rule not to apply to austria. it applies to the netherlands, romania, france - it applies to all other countries, but austria, in the form of its representative here, wants the principle not to apply to austria. i'm going to ask you a very simple question. tell the whole house here why the difference of more than a million citizens should not affect the allocation of seats to austria? austria has a million fewer citizens than sweden, but you want the same number of seats as sweden. explain why austria, of all countries, should have a better representation in the parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we agreed in the constitutional committee on the principle that member states are given seats in parliament according to their population, but that the smaller you are, the more members you have per voter. that's the result now. it's a principle, it's a rule. i asked my colleague just now how it is possible to explain that a difference of more than a million citizens would mean that you would still have the same number of seats as the larger country, and i should like to emphasize, mr president, that i did not receive an answer to that question. no answer to that question. the only answer i got to that question was that it was wrong from the beginning, so it's gonna be wrong in the end. it was wrong from the beginning, and therefore it must be wrong in the end. mr. speaker, i believe we are all united here by a desire to do what is right. if something is wrong, you make it right, and the constitutional committee did the right thing. now many austrian members want to do wrong again, but they have no answer to the question: why should austrian voters have more meps than any other country? why should austria deviate from the principle we have agreed? mr president, i did not get an answer to that question, and the reason is very simple: the only argument in favour of the amendment from austria which would break the proposal we have agreed in committee is that it was wrong from the start and therefore it must be wrong at the end. but i would say to the house that there can never be a rule for decision-making in this house or anywhere else but that we should keep the error without doing the right thing and therefore we should vote for what the committee proposes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is reasonable and logical that small eu countries with roughly the same population should have equal representation. unfortunately, the battle has ended up between sweden and austria, and the debate forgets that sweden has a million more citizens than austria. this means that it will be a just and democratic solution for sweden to retain its 20 seats while austria loses one. in this way, the members of both countries will represent approximately 475 000 citizens per member. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. therefore, i recommend that we follow the committee's line in the vote tomorrow. anything else would be a big failure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the original proposal for the redistribution of seats in the european parliament has one deviation. a sinkhole in that otherwise fine, smooth curve, and that's sweden. that is why we are, of course, focusing so much on the swedish example in this debate. sweden would lose one of our 20 members of parliament and we would therefore also have to pay considerably more for each mandate than, for example, austria or hungary. we have argued against this obvious injustice, and not only on the swedish side. we've had support from a lot of other people. i'm grateful for that. the constitutional committee has also heard this. i'm very happy about that, too. i now ask parliament to support the committee's new proposals and to reject amendment no 8 in all its strength. it is not a matter of speaking for oneself, it is not a matter of talking about constitutional technology. it is about doing justice, creating justice and acting democratically. i hope that all these good elements of the debate will indeed be reflected in the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation in the preparation of this report. i hope that in the vote tomorrow we will have a large majority in favour of the compromises we have made together. i would also like to thank all the others who have given valuable support and valuable comments during the course of the work. we are exposed to a number of hormone disrupting substances on a daily basis. they're in food packaging, skin creams, and in the dust on the floor. the available research indicates that even in very small amounts, endocrine disrupting chemicals contribute to a variety of hormone-related disorders. it can lead to breast and prostate cancers, impaired sperm quality, and birth defects, among other things. recent studies also show a link between endocrine disruptors and, for example, adhd, diabetes, and obesity. young children and fetuses are especially sensitive, and what they are exposed to too early in life can have consequences far later, in some cases even for the next generation. a more stringent regulation of endocrine disruptors could therefore save us a great deal of human suffering and society a great deal of money. in the report we call for better and more ambitious legislation to protect human health from endocrine disruptors. it is just as, for example, the eu environment agency has emphasised high time to act now. the scientific status reports commissioned by the european commission and unep/who respectively underline this fact. the report also calls for the introduction of information and testing requirements to identify chemicals that are endocrine disruptors, the development of common criteria for what is to be defined as endocrine disrupting substances, and that these criteria are scientifically based and that no single criterion such as potency alone should be the deciding factor, that endocrine disrupting chemicals should be considered as particularly dangerous substances under reach and other relevant chemical legislation; that endocrine disrupting substances should therefore be banned and replaced by less dangerous alternatives, or that their use be restricted, that the criteria for what is an endocrine disrupting substance take into account possible combined effects and the fact that people under development, for example sometimes foetuses, are extra sensitive, that substances with a structure similar to endocrine disrupting substances should also be assessed as endocrine disrupting substances if the manufacturer cannot preserve the endocrine disruptors, that the risk of endocrine disrupting substances should not be considered as being lower than the risk of determining, for example, which substances should be considered endocrine disrupting substances at lower doses. the last two points have been the subject of much debate in the last few days. the unep/who report on the state of research clearly explains why it is impossible to set safe limit values for endocrine disruptors. nevertheless, in this report we have made a compromise and left the door open to acceptance if industry can show that safe limits exist. i therefore sincerely hope that we can support the compromise that paragraph 25 actually is. the possibility of grouping substances as mentioned in paragraph 17 does not change the fact that substances that the manufacturer can prove are safe, despite similarities with substances judged to be endocrine disruptors, should in fact be allowed. so i hope that everyone can support paragraph 17 tomorrow. we naturally expect the commission to take our demands seriously and to put forward the legislation we are asking for as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? thank you very much, commissioner potočnik. i think you said what i was going to say about thresholds. i have made a great effort - and i know that all my colleagues have also made an effort - to follow the current state of research and the scientific state of affairs. now, the who/unep study did not exist when we compromised until the wording of paragraph 25, but i think it still very much reflects what is written in the who report, namely that it is likely that there can be no thresholds. we must therefore assume that it is impossible to define them, but we are not closing the door to industry to show that there are safe thresholds and that research can develop in a way that allows us to establish safe thresholds. if one is keen to follow the scientific evidence or facts that are available, one can very well support paragraph 25 and one can certainly not think that it goes too far. i would like to emphasize something that commissioner potočnik also said at the beginning, namely that people expect someone to be in control of all these subjects that we have around us. they expect us in the european parliament, in the european commission and in the governments of the member states to actually protect them from dangerous substances. today, many people are concerned, and rightly so, because they also realise that the scientific situation is the same and that legislation is lagging behind. that's why it's so important that we actually catch up and do what we probably should have done a long time ago. i also do not share the fear that some may have that this will cause very big problems for the chemical industry, which is a very innovative industry and which, like other industries, is also happy that we are making demands because it actually also promotes innovation and competitiveness. in addition, there are many companies that are asking for the possibility to buy safer products. the companies that sell clothes, build our houses or sell bottles of nappies or whatever it is want to be able to trust that the chemicals they use are actually safe so that they don't have to face the shame of having sold a shirt or a piece of furniture or a bottle of nappies that are later deemed dangerous to the people who came into contact with them. finally, i would like to thank you very much for all the support and i hope that we will have a good vote tomorrow and i look forward to the commission's concrete legislative proposal.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. one of the eu's greatest achievements is that we have erased the borders between member states and that we allow people, goods, services and capital to flow freely. it requires trust between member states and between the eu institutions and it requires that we handle external borders wisely. the major challenge for the eu is to ensure trust between countries without building a 'fort europe' for that purpose. many people apply for jobs in the eu. although the eu has historically been attractive to many educated people, this may change dramatically. china and india are now better at attracting educated people, and at the same time we in the eu are scaring them away with complicated bureaucracy and growing xenophobia, and this is serious. today we have an ageing population in the eu and if we do not reverse this trend, by 2015 there will be one worker for every pensioner. the solution is that we need to be proactive and attract well-educated workers and create a system that better takes advantage of immigrants' knowledge, experience and skills. a hundred years ago, europe was a continent that people left to seek better opportunities, like in america. today, the eu is a continent that people come to. we must remember that man is by nature a migrant.
mr president, colleagues, the council conclusions on the financial framework from february in their current form are not acceptable to my group. we now look forward to serious negotiations in order to be able to agree a deal as soon as possible, and i very much welcome the message from minister creighton on this point. so this is not the final decision on the next mff, and it is not a matter of prestige for the european parliament to negotiate. the issues at stake are substantial and substantive. it is about supporting the economic recovery – is that ok for a stimulus, mr mitchell? – and financing the political priorities of the european union for the next seven years. this is a very modest resolution. we do not even challenge the overall level of the budget proposed by the council, in spite of the fact that the proposal is insufficient to ensure a successful implementation of the eu’s most important policies. the proposal is not sufficient to fund the growth and jobs package, not sufficient to fund the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable growth, and not sufficient for the necessary development aid to meet the millennium development goals. so all of this we want to discuss. now, more than ever, we must provide the european union with the necessary and well-targeted means to invest for the future in research and development, in infrastructure, climate and energy policies, improving education, fighting youth unemployment and promoting the eu’s role in the world. we must also provide the union with a budget which is flexible enough to rapidly and sufficiently respond to unforeseen events. this is a budget for the next seven years, and nobody knows today what circumstances we will be facing in 2016 or 2019. therefore, we must have a legally binding mid-term revision of the mff to adapt ourselves to future challenges. we must also avoid a budget deficit. this would not only be illegal but would hamper the implementation of important eu policies like research and education – for example the erasmus programme. it would undermine the credibility of the union. what student, what private company, what university, what researcher will ever apply for, or participate in, an eu-funded project if there is a risk that they will not get paid at the end? finally, for all of those reasons, i welcome the opening of negotiations. i am happy to see that both parliament and the council have expressed their readiness for serious talks and i really hope that we can achieve a good result as soon as possible.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we used the phrase 'arab spring' in this house earlier, we often quoted condoleezza rice who said: 'we bet on stability to get democracy and we got neither'. i think that we now risk falling back into that situation, so that stability becomes what we want to prioritise perhaps before underlining the importance of respect for human rights and freedoms. we now know that egypt is close to collapse both politically and economically and it is quite obvious that we should help egypt. we cannot guarantee and promote security in the eu if we do not help. i do not think that we should see this as a choice, but we need to be there to care and help, but it is of course extremely important that we receive the message from muhammad mursi and the rest of the muslim brotherhood that this is democracy not only in administrative terms but also in terms of values. we are talking about observers and we are of course a little impressed and happy that the eu is going to be able to bring observers, but that is not enough. an election which is administered with the utmost technical correctness can therefore be completely undemocratic, and it is quite clear to us that the values of democracy must be destroyed.
mr president, i have a question for baroness ashton concerning kidnapping in the sinai desert. what is happening there is awful. while it might be deemed a minor problem, given the situation in egypt generally, i would not share that view. i think that we in the european union can actually help here by assisting the egyptian authorities. what we see now are daily atrocities: tortures, kidnappings and attempts to get money by blackmailing citizens all over the world. so, the next time you talk to the egyptian authorities, i would urge you to try to assist them, because this cannot go on. i would add that there is currently a court case in stockholm in which three people are, i hope, to be tried for kidnappings and attempted blackmail.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by saying that some good questions were asked and i will consult high representative cathy ashton to provide you with a good answer to your questions. can i refer to the three main issues in the discussion today? firstly the security situation where french and chadian operations have continued against the jihadist strongholds. clearly, retraining the malian army and getting afisma operational is a challenging task. in the short term, the european training mission is getting underway; there are 21 member states participating and the number is rising. all these efforts are vital given the continued threat of asymmetric warfare. it is equally important to ensure respect for human rights. deployment of human rights observers is crucial to preventing abuses or documenting them. all perpetrators of human rights violations must be held responsible for their actions. secondly, on the development side, the european decision to resume gradual aid development cooperation is carrying its first results. it is important that the country’s normal economic life resume as swiftly as possible and that displaced people feel free and safe to return to their homes. thirdly, political progress in implementing the roadmap in a credible manner and making conciliation on national a reality is vital for long-term stability in mali. in this context, it is important that we follow up carefully on commitments made by the government of mali, including those related to the elections and a national inclusive dialogue. elections alone will not cure the country’s problems. it needs a real effort to rebuild trust in the political system. malian ownership and international support are both crucial. preparations for the international high-level conference in support of mali in mid-may 2013 in brussels are ongoing. the malian government is committed to preparing a national strategy for early recovery which will constitute a basis for its appeal to the international solidarity.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, recent developments in ukraine continue to present us with a paradox. on the one hand, the european union-ukraine summit in brussels just over two weeks ago took place in a constructive atmosphere with unequivocal commitments from president yanukovych that ukraine is determined to comply with all three areas specified in the foreign affairs council conclusions of 10 december 2012, namely: firstly, follow-up actions to remedy shortcomings identified in the conduct of the 28 october parliamentary elections; secondly, addressing the issue of selective justice and also preventing its recurrence through comprehensive judiciary reform; and, thirdly, implementation of the reforms defined in our jointly agreed association agenda. if these commitments are fulfilled this would consolidate ukraine democratically and would enable us to sign the association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area, possibly by the time of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013. ukraine is well aware that we need to see determined action and tangible progress over the period until the vilnius summit. this steady process is important as there are a number of milestones between now and the summit. in recent weeks we have worked intensively with kiev at all levels to ensure that there is no gap between our expectations, and to help it deliver on the steps required to get us to signature in vilnius. we have noted some encouraging signals from kiev about a more efficient political steering of the process. on the other hand, we note that the situation remains difficult. the blockage of the rada is a rather graphic illustration of the stay of play. this is particularly disappointing after the encouraging cross-party resolution regarding the european agenda. ukraine needs the authorities to create an environment that is conducive to dialogue as strongly as it needs a constructive opposition that can fully assume its responsibility towards the ukrainian people. meanwhile, there are a number of developments which go contrary to the spirit of the commitments taken at the summit. i already expressed my deep concerns about the recent legal proceedings on the annulment of parliamentary mandates based on contested or selectively applied legal grounds. i wish to note in particular the situation surrounding mr vlasenko. let me say this openly: just as it is important that the work of the verkhovna rada is not being blocked, it is also important that this democratic institution works transparently and predictably following the letter and spirit of its own rules. recent developments underline once more the urgent need for judicial and electoral reforms in ukraine. a recent preliminary judgement of the european court of human rights also identified serious systemic problems in the functioning of the ukrainian judiciary, in particular as regards the separation of powers. i wish here to particularly commend the efforts of the european parliament’s mission headed by former president of parliament cox and former polish president kwasniewski. its determination with respect to addressing the matter of selective justice, notably the cases of yulia tymoshenko and yuriy lutsenko, deserves high recognition. this mission needs and has all our support as its importance cannot be overstated. it is key that this mission will be in a position next month to report that there has been clear progress. we have underlined this in every single interaction with the ukrainian authorities in recent weeks and months. let me be very clear: if we want to sign the association agreement – and i am convinced we do, as it is in our shared interest – the way forward for the authorities is not through bringing more and more disturbing news. the time has come for sending some good news in dealing with selective justice. unless the cases of yulia tymoshenko and yuriy lutsenko are properly addressed and there is sufficient confidence that there will be no more use of selective justice, we can hardly talk about conditions that are conducive to the signing of the association agreement. the european union must remain committed to the defined policy of sequenced engagement with ukraine. we have established an unprecedented objective with ukraine and we hope to be able to achieve it. on its side, ukraine needs to take action on matters that will bring it closer to the european union and reverse the recent backsliding. yesterday’s presidential decree by president yanukovych, including the establishment of a high-level national coordination to oversee the implementation of the necessary steps, as set out in the december foreign affairs council conclusions, the recent statement of the ukrainian parliament and the regulation of the cabinet of ministers on the european agenda’s priorities, show that there is determination in kiev to achieve the objectives. let me recall what i said before. it is important to ensure throughout the process that there is no gap between our expectations. i very much look forward to hearing the views of this honourable house.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for presenting his view on ukraine. it is important to send a clear message to the authorities and to the government in ukraine because we can see what is happening in ukraine in a broader perspective. the european union and the countries in the eastern partnership do share a european vision and european opportunities. the eastern partnership, with the hopes and promises about association agreements and deeper free trade agreements, was launched because these countries were moving towards democracy and the rule of law. the eastern partnership was meant to help them take these steps and benefit from deeper economic integration. now we can see a clear pattern in these countries. compared to the orange revolution in ukraine, the rose revolution in georgia and the corresponding moves and calls for democracy that we saw at that time, we are seeing another pattern today. commissioner, i very much appreciate the fact that you underlined that there must be confidence that there will be no more use of selective justice in ukraine if the conditions for an association agreement are to be met. that is important and i think that is an important message to all of these countries. turning to the case of yulia tymoshenko, we must be aware that this is not only a humanitarian problem. it is also a systemic and inherent problem for democracy in ukraine. what should concern us is not only that, but the fact that it also seems as if the regime does not want to do anything about it. they have been moving in the wrong direction for far too long. there is reason to be concerned about the escalation of human rights violations and the misuse of the judiciary for political purposes in ukraine. ukraine’s high court of appeal has removed the parliamentary immunity of two independent members of parliament who did not want to cooperate with the ruling party. serhiy vlasenko, a lawyer who is coordinating former prime minister yulia tymoshenko’s defence in all politically motivated cases, has also been stripped of his parliamentary immunity. these are signs that yanukovych’s ruling party is not doing what it should in order to meet the commitments made. furthermore, on tuesday 12 february, vitali klitschko, the leader of the opposition party udar, called on the eu to introduce sanctions against the highest-ranking ukrainian officials. we see a pattern which we need to address in ukraine and in a number of the other countries in the eastern partnership. ukraine is at the centre of it, and the problem needs proper action. a clear message must be sent to ukraine and those other countries, because otherwise we will see a dividing line of democracy and the rule of law, and ukraine will not be in our part of europe.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to be very serious about this. no one should give up on democracy – neither in ukraine nor in georgia – and we shall not give up. i am saying this to you too, commissioner füle, with regard to development in these countries. however, if we are not able to look beyond party politics and demand democratic reforms, then we have a problem, and i would like my colleague to focus on that point in his reply to me.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, bastiaan belder, for your extraordinary writings. here we don't have to convince each other that china is doing well materially. nor should we be eager for china to achieve stronger economic growth - we might rather be envious and wonder how this could be achieved for our dear europe. what we must forcefully suppress - and i think we should do so again and again - is what many here have raised, namely that respect for human dignity is not accepted in this gigantic country. we have mentioned the death penalty and we could mention the treatment of dissidents, we could mention forced abortions, we could mention prisoners who find themselves in the process of having their organs removed and then transplanted and we should of course - as has also been mentioned here before - recall the minorities who are living as a sort of secondary class in the great giant china. it is absolutely our duty as the european parliament to stress that respect for democratic values is the duty of even the largest of nations and not just the small nations, which are always easier to point out and act against. i also think it is important in this context to highlight and highlight the way china is acting in the third world. there we have a lot to wish for from the chinese side.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. since the report highlights the situation of women in north africa, i would have liked to see a description of the situation of women in western sahara and the oppression of the sahrawi by the occupying power in morocco. my party has been working against morocco's occupation of western sahara for decades. in december last year, a majority in the riksdag supported a motion by the left party to recognise the state of western sahara. the western saharaans see the decision of the swedish parliament as one of the great symbolic victories of the modern era. the hope is that the eu will make a move so that more countries will follow suit with their own recognition. if the eu is to be a credible champion of democracy and human rights, it must demand that morocco end the occupation of western sahara and restore the sahrawi people to their freedom.
in writing. − already in the e-mails we receive from many producers of local beverages as a result of this resolution, it is obvious that it’s very difficult to pin down exactly what is a local, customary or traditional drink. trying to create abstract values or transaction documents around these-difficult-to-define beverages is unwise, not only because it reduces our ability to learn, be influenced by and share each others’ traditional cultures, but also because it is an economically unsound principle. we want our legal objects to be well-defined, and it seems to me that something so closely connected to a group identity or personal experience cannot be done best when it is put in the form of legal obligation imposed on others. therefore i’m against the idea of this resolution, which seeks to confine and lock down the cultural freedom of artisans in traditional beverages.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of pesticides and the use of pesticides in foodstuffs. we social democrats believe that agricultural policy must be more environmentally friendly and generate greater collective social benefits. agricultural aid can only be justified if it generates added value for society at large and is directed towards key actions that the market cannot cope with. we also believe that agricultural policy must be made fairer. the distribution of direct aid between different member states and regions must be more evenly distributed. at the same time, we believe that farmers who have made investments and modernised production in the belief that the eu's quota system and safeguarding regulations will soon end should not be punished for their foresight by repealing previous decisions and extending market governance instruments. moreover, such market manipulation has a clear negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the sector. we also want to emphasise that the decision to maintain the eu's export subsidies is a major setback in the development towards a policy of solidarity with the world around us. on all these points, we believe that the negotiating mandates do not meet our ambition for a greener, fairer and more market-oriented european agricultural policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: the extension of market distorting coupled aid to farmers who produce tobacco, among other things, was the main reason for our strong opposition to the parliament's negotiating mandate.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the extension of market distorting coupled aid to farmers who produce tobacco, among other things, was the main reason for our strong opposition to the parliament's negotiating mandate.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus.
in writing. - we voted against the single market organisation as it undermines fundamental market principles. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the income stabilization tool encourages mismanagement and takes money away from the good environmental measures that we otherwise take for granted. we therefore considered that we could not support parliament's negotiating mandate.
in writing. - we voted against the rural development regulation as a whole, as we believe that the regulation can be abused, as the so-called income stabilisation tool was voted through. the income stabilization tool encourages mismanagement and takes money away from the good environmental measures that we otherwise take for granted. we therefore considered that we could not support parliament's negotiating mandate.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the horizontal regulation allows export subsidies and import duties, which we strongly oppose. we voted, however, to maintain the cross-compliance, i.e. the requirement for farmers to comply with current environmental and animal welfare legislation in order to qualify for aid, which we consider to be of great importance. we nevertheless felt that we could not support parliament's negotiating mandate.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the new member states, and to extend it to include the new member states. the horizontal regulation allows export subsidies and import duties, which we strongly oppose. we voted, however, to maintain the cross-compliance, i.e. the requirement for farmers to comply with current environmental and animal welfare legislation in order to qualify for aid, which we consider to be of great importance. we nevertheless felt that we could not support parliament's negotiating mandate.
in writing. − the fact that the surplus of allowances has caused the price to fall shows that the eu ets is working as intended. unfortunately, this means that the incentives to invest in green technology have decreased. however, all indications are that the eu will nonetheless meet its 2020 emissions target. it is important to achieve the objectives set even further. a review of climate policy is therefore welcome, particularly with regard to the period after 2020. however, for market participants and third countries to have confidence in the eu ets, stable rules of the game are essential. we are therefore critical of direct market interventions to influence the price of allowances.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be more transparent in its approach to the problem of consumer protection. so-called "smart grids" have a role to play. transparent pricing allows households to regulate their electricity consumption. the eu is committed to renewable energy, but cannot expect to meet all its needs. i believe that nuclear power has not played its part. industry and investors need to know that there are long-term solutions to the energy needs of the future. the eu needs to invest in energy-efficient and green alternatives but also be critical, for example, to shale gas. the pursuit of renewable energy must not put our environment and human health at risk.'
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we have not, however, had the opportunity to vote against the parts of the report which we strongly question. we would like to emphasise that immigrants are not a homogeneous group, and we therefore think it is wrong to point out situations which concern small groups/few individuals - but which, according to the report's wording, can be seen as general for immigrants in particular. we defend fundamental human rights in all contexts and believe that everyone has the right to a fair and individual trial. we want this to be done in accordance with the rules and have therefore voted against part of paragraph 61 while voting in favour of paragraph 64 because we recognise the vulnerable situation of the undocumented.
in writing. - i have abstained on this report. on the one hand, the report makes some good points on immigration and integration: for example, the crucial role of employment in integration, fair conditions and equal pay for equal work, good education for young people, gender equality for women. on the other hand, the report does not describe the de facto reality, which is that a large number of immigrants are exploited by unscrupulous employers, that many immigrants are forced into poor wages and working conditions, that millions of women are forced into sex trafficking. the report also raises a number of eu federalist proposals in paragraphs 23 to 27, such as the commission's evaluation of the possibility of designing and introducing a common criteria-based european access system, an international platform for standardised job and skills profiles and a common european coordination system to identify labour needs in order to better manage labour migration. i am opposed to such centralisation. for these reasons, i therefore choose to abstain.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on the integration of immigrants, the impact on the labour market and the external dimension of the eu's social security coordination. we would like to emphasize, however, that there are parts of the report to which we object.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? it is of the utmost importance that all those who fell victim to the brutal slaughter in the events in bangladesh in 1971 finally receive the redress to which they are entitled. it is equally important that those responsible for the genocide are finally brought to justice. but it is also important that such a process in the military tribunal is fair, that it respects international standards and high standards of legal certainty. this has largely failed so far. the list of abuses and shortcomings in the trials is very long. witnesses have been kidnapped from the courtroom, defendants have been interrogated without the assistance of their legal representatives, and so on. it may seem that even those accused of bestial crimes must have a fair trial. the people of bangladesh deserve better, the victims deserve better and today we in the european parliament must call on the government of bangladesh to take the criticism seriously and to reopen the trials. do it again!
i'm not sure i'm ready to ask you a question. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. now, if we agree that we want a fair system, then can we agree to end free allocation? it's very fair. another solution: if we want security and guarantees, can we also agree to a minimum price for carbon dioxide quotas? these two proposals solve the problems you mentioned. are you willing to accept both solutions?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we all know that a carbon tax is the most effective and fair solution. but now we have only the ets, and that is what makes it work. the price today is one tenth of what we thought and planned for when we introduced the system. many environmental investments will not be profitable. you who are always talking about the europe of innovation and new export markets and that we should compete with knowledge and new technology that is low in resources with the policy of the committee on industry we are locking ourselves in old coal mines you should call yourselves the 'committee for the destruction of industry' instead! if we do not remove these quotas, we will have to implement other, more expensive climate measures elsewhere. it's a policy of industrial destruction, and i don't stand for it. thank you, commission, for the proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the european parliament delegation met the chinese representative at the recent climate summit in doha, we received a surprisingly straightforward message. china may be considering putting the plane under the emissions trading scheme. that was the message, which was very clarifying. at the same time, a number of other very positive decisions have been taken, as has already been mentioned, in particular the international civil aviation organisation's support for global regulation. we know that representatives of the united states government have done the same, and they really need to come up with evidence during president obama's second term. this is, of course, worth our consideration. since the next icao meeting is in september, i think it is not entirely unreasonable to propose a 'stop-clock' decision in the european parliament. we must show that we are not the obstacle, but that we are prepared to do a great deal to achieve an international agreement. that is why i think that peter liese has put forward a very sensible proposal.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the rapporteur, giles chichester, for his work and the shadow rapporteurs for the help they have given over the past year. i would also like to thank commissioner kroes for her support for enisa. many of us have learned from the work of enisa, which brings together the experience of the union as a whole on network and information security like no other. it is a success that enisa now has two workplaces in greece. it will make the work of the agency and the lives of its employees easier. however, we must not forget that network security as a policy area is quite young. we're still struggling with who to protect from what and for what reason. the commission has started to entrust enisa with a number of information gathering tasks and has given it a central role in a number of regulations issued in the past year. perhaps we should instead let enisa mature with the mandates given to it by parliament and take its place in the areas where it has been strong so far.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? the fact that international trade matters to developing countries is, i think, not a matter for debate. i think we can all agree on that. we know that the benefits of globalisation can, or rather must, be passed on to developing countries, and it is our task and indeed our responsibility to ensure that this happens. there are benefits, but there are also risks, of course. it is therefore urgent that developing countries should be more involved in international trade and that we should take the lead in ensuring that this happens. it is true that free trade with developing countries must have development as its objective. sometimes trade and aid are pitted against each other. it has sometimes been said that trade is not aid. that's a crazy attitude! it is necessary that trade and aid go hand in hand, go side by side. both of these approaches must be present. we must ensure that the trading capacity of poor countries is improved, while recognising that aid is a necessity. i think that this is a matter of peace and a future, as we all agree. we cannot therefore leave this aside as something we bring up on certain verbal occasions, but we must actually state and underline it in all contexts. i would also argue that trade relations with developing countries sometimes require a different approach from us in the eu than trade with economically equal partners. we must ensure that these countries are not locked into a dependence on raw materials, so that it becomes their job. we must accept that they can compete with us on equal terms. this is something that we may not always want to accept even here in the european parliament, but we want to protect our own industries when it is the last resort. i would like to stress the urgency of our daring to stand up for solidarity also in practical work and in trade relations. we must also be mindful that in trade relations we can stand up for human rights and freedoms and that we can ensure that child labour does not exist in any area. we must also, of course, ensure that trade reaches and benefits the whole population, as far as we can, not just those living in a big city or in urban areas, but also people in rural areas and also, of course, women and children who often need to be elevated as those parts of the population that need special support, also in terms of trade policy engagement. finally, mr president, i would like to mention briefly the coherence of development policy, or policy coherence for development, which we have committed ourselves to supporting in practice and to which all our policies, whether they relate to trade, agriculture, fisheries or anything else, should contribute in terms of development in the world. let us not forget this in practical work, in practical political work, and not merely mention it or underline it when a report is on the wall or is being discussed in this house.
mr president, i would like to thank you. banks must have larger buffers and maintain a better quality of capital. the financial crisis has shown that banks are taking too much risk. that is why, unfortunately, we need rules on ceilings so that bonuses are regulated by law. i would have preferred that this could have been solved by the banks themselves, but unfortunately too many bank directors seem to be completely deaf to public opinion. i'm not one of those people who's always trying to "shake" the banking industry. i am glad that parliament supported my proposal to change the nomination process for bank boards to reduce the male dominance in the banking world. each bank should set its own targets for the proportion of women on its board, a form of self-rating. this is part of my draft opinion on the directive on company boards from the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is a proposal which i noted now also seems to be that of germany and the federal chancellor.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by expressing my thoughts, as my colleagues have done, to the victims and the families of those who were affected by the terrible atrocity that took place in boston yesterday. i would then like to welcome prime minister katainen to the european parliament. sweden and finland are not only neighbours and close geographically, but we also have a very close relationship with each other, which i appreciate. i also have a very special personal relationship with finland, because i was actually born there before i moved to sweden. i would like to stress that the gue/ngl group is quite unanimous in its strong criticism of the neoliberal austerity policies now sweeping the european union. it is a policy that really puts the interests of the banks first at the expense of severe austerity on the part of ordinary people, with wage cuts, mass unemployment and the dismantling of the public sector. in the eu, more than 26 million people are out of work. almost one in four people under 25 is unemployed. in spain and greece, nearly 50 percent of young people are unemployed. today, youth unemployment costs more than the entire eu budget. the international red cross says that large parts of the eu are a crisis zone of poverty and food shortages. in southern europe the situation is so serious that one has to go back to the years after world war ii to find something similar. the international red cross is stating that the coming years will be very difficult. among the biggest losers are low-paid and unemployed women. women are doubly affected by austerity policies. their labour market is being reduced to a minimum, while the basis for women's economic independence is being destroyed. women are still the most in need of social infrastructure, such as childcare and housing for the elderly, and when this disappears from the public sector, the responsibility is unfortunately very often shifted to the family and the woman. i am therefore very pleased to note that your government has as one of its main objectives the reduction of poverty and income inequality in finland. these issues should also be central to the eu. so i'm going to ask you a question: i wonder whether and how the finnish government is working to make poverty reduction and income inequality central objectives of the european union. i also want to ask a completely different question. in your programme for government, you have stated that your government is in favour of a tax on financial transactions. however, you decided not to join the 11 eu countries that want to introduce such a tax. what made you decide to do that? finally, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak and to say that the prime minister said in his speech that we need 'more europe'. i would rather say that we need a different europe.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of three reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the creation of the fund in 2006, we have always abstained from voting, because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we are therefore now taking a stand on each individual case if they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these three cases, we consider that the applications meet these requirements. we continue to support more effective and long-term instruments to increase employment, address structural change and increase labour market flexibility in the context of the 2013 budget and the long-term budget.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on three reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the fund as a rule. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it will therefore remain for the foreseeable future. to benefit from the fund, applicants must meet very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures. all three cases at issue meet these criteria. this includes support for continuing training and support for retraining, all with the aim of helping workers to re-enter the labour market. europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term. now that the fund is there, it's about making the best of the situation. in view of this, i have therefore voted in favour of the three reports in question.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of three reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we are therefore now taking a stand on each individual case if they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these three cases, we consider that the applications meet these requirements. we continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the 2013 and long-term budgetary work to increase employment, address structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on three reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the fund as a rule. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it will therefore remain for the foreseeable future. to benefit from the fund, applicants must meet very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures. all three cases at issue meet these criteria. this includes support for continuing training and support for retraining, all with the aim of helping workers to re-enter the labour market. europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term. now that the fund is there, it's about making the best of the situation. in view of this, i have therefore voted in favour of the three reports in question.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of three reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we are therefore now taking a stand on each individual case if they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these three cases, we consider that the applications meet these requirements. we continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the 2013 and long-term budgetary work to increase employment, address structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on three reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the fund as a rule. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it will therefore remain for the foreseeable future. to benefit from the fund, applicants must meet very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures. all three cases at issue meet these criteria. this includes support for continuing training and support for retraining, all with the aim of helping workers to re-enter the labour market. europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term. now that the fund is there, it's about making the best of the situation. in view of this, i have therefore voted in favour of the three reports in question.
in writing. − the projections show that greenhouse gas emissions will fall by more than the 21% target for 2020. however, the excessive free allocation of allowances and the decreases in emissions due to the economic crisis have led to an accumulation of surplus allowances with very low prices as a consequence. in the short term, this means that the incentives to invest in environmentally friendly technologies will be reduced. energy prices are high, though. we are sceptical about imposing extra costs on industry in a situation where we are reaching the emission targets. moreover, for the confidence of market participants and third countries in the ets, stable rules of the game are crucial in the long term. we are therefore critical of direct market interventions to influence the price of allowances in the short term when it falls due to weak demand. however, it is important to signal to the market that europe's climate goals are valid and that the ets is the most important tool to achieve the goal. we would therefore welcome a review of climate policy with an emphasis on the period after 2020 in order to ensure a more stable carbon market and that europe reaches the 2050 target.
in writing. − the projections show that greenhouse gas emissions will fall by more than the 21% target for 2020. however, the excessive free allocation of allowances and the decreases in emissions due to the economic crisis have led to an accumulation of surplus allowances with very low prices as a consequence. in the short term, this means that the incentives to invest in environmentally friendly technologies will be reduced. energy prices are high, though. we are sceptical about imposing extra costs on industry in a situation where we are reaching the emission targets. moreover, for the confidence of market participants and third countries in the ets, stable rules of the game are crucial in the long term. we are therefore critical of direct market interventions to influence the price of allowances in the short term when it falls due to weak demand. however, it is important to signal to the market that europe's climate goals are valid and that the ets is the most important tool to achieve the goal. we would therefore welcome a review of climate policy with an emphasis on the period after 2020 in order to ensure a more stable carbon market and that europe reaches the 2050 target.
in writing. − i am in principle against the ets system and a market-driven approach to combating climate change. however, the current reality is that voting against the backloading measures would be a political signal to stop investing in reduced carbon technologies and also send a political signal that climate change policies are no longer a priority. instead, i would like to give a political signal in favour of policies combating climate change, and therefore i have voted in favour of the groote report. but above all, i call for a total revision of the ets system, as it is currently not working as intended.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of supervision of banks and financial institutions. the european union has been strongly characterised by the neo-liberal belief in deregulation as a path to economic development. the great financial crisis that began in 2008 shows the enormous problems and risks that deregulation has created. to curb the enormity of speculation requires a comprehensive policy. such proposals have been put forward in the econ committee by the gue/ngl group, but were voted down. the left party has also presented in sweden a strong programme of measures to better regulate the banking and financial sectors. a central demand is that banks should be forced to separate traditional banking from speculation. it would powerfully increase stability, and the taxpayers would only have to guarantee the money of small savers, not the speculation of the banks. the kara report has only taken occasional steps in the right direction. i therefore vote in favour of this, but i stress the importance of more far-reaching regulation of the banking and financial sectors.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank my danish colleague, søren bo søndergaard, for a very good report on the european development fund. the main objective of eu development policy is to eradicate poverty, but of course this must be done in a way that we know that the money is being used properly and by the right people. this is certainly not a contradiction, and in this respect i think the report contains a number of concrete proposals. even the world's poorest countries should benefit from economic growth. to achieve this, the eu development fund is an important tool. eu and member state aid policies shall complement and reinforce each other. last year, our aid amounted to 55 billion euros. so together we account for more than half of the world's total development aid. but it is not enough to lift these debt-ridden countries out of poverty. the subsidy trap locks people into a subsidy dependency, hinders competitiveness and can bring an entire country to a standstill. we must never lose sight of the role of trade in development. i am convinced that the trade agreements with the acp countries will give a boost to regional development and regional economies. free trade is the key to development. corruption is the single biggest cause of under-utilization of funds. complex and closed political systems make it difficult for local communities to take advantage of the opportunities offered. the european union has a great responsibility in this regard, as the report also shows. finally, mr president, i hope that this will be the last time that the development fund is managed independently. the fund must be included in the eu's long-term budget to guarantee predictability and democratic transparency.
blue-card question. – it might be costly – we can agree on that – but if you using that kind of rhetoric, i must ask if, from your point of view, european history is worth remembering. i thought (though i might be wrong) that the conservatives in britain – and i do not know, but i suppose you are a conservative – actually valued history in a deeper sense than this witty rhetorical way of expressing it in this house. i suppose that when you are back in westminster you use another language?
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is the 18th year without a clean audit report. it's serious and upsetting. however, i think it is almost as serious and disturbing that we have so many people in this house who are almost glad to see it, almost a little glad that you do not get a clean audit report instead of doing what we were elected to do, which is to ask why and, more importantly, what we are doing about it. we know quite well - i learned this last year at least when i was responsible for discharge at the european commission - that the biggest problem is in what is called shared management. a large part of the eu budget is shared between the member states and the commission. shared responsibility is a bit like when my little sister and i had shared responsibility for cleaning our home when we were little. it's like no one did. it's like no one took responsibility. instead, the member states should have had furious debates in council meetings, where they take a hard line against those who misbehave, who they know to be. it is as if it were someone else's money, it is the eu's money, and then you do not claim the same responsibility as a member state. the council and the member states must take their responsibilities. however, the commission also has a responsibility. the commission has a responsibility to take the heavy hand, to suspend programmes, to stop payments, to recover money, to reduce the allocations to regions or member states that are not doing their job. it is not, after all, other people's money, it is our money, the money of the european taxpayers. we should spend more time discussing that responsibility, i.e. how the council and the member states should take that responsibility and how the commission should take that responsibility. after all, every misspent tax penny is a theft from the poor.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the eu's administrative expenditure is a very small part of the budget, but it is sensitive, especially in these times of crisis. the european parliament is a legislative assembly of elected politicians from 27 different countries in different political groups. we live and do a heavy share of the business in our own constituencies. this entails special costs. at the same time, the fact that we represent citizens under pressure means that we should take on extra responsibility for a careful development of costs. we social democrats want, firstly, to develop the way parliament works, focusing on the core areas, legislation and auditing, and what it requires of the resources of committees and political groups; secondly, to invest in modern technology, but also to save on things that can be rationalised, such as premises; and thirdly, to hold back the costs of, for example, travel and treatment and, in these times of crisis, to freeze both the allowances and the entire budget. this constructive approach has increased citizens' respect for parliament's work and reduced the scandal-mongering of the press. however, by 2014, the parliament's leadership has had difficulty in reaching the target, as croatia's membership and the election year impose additional costs. nevertheless, i think we should try to keep up with inflation. the extra costs of an election year are offset by extra savings, fewer trips, fewer parliamentary weeks. given that we are turning over 1.8 billion euros, i am absolutely convinced that we can find further savings already next year and in the long term, of course, through a single seat for the parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am going to speak, as is my dear colleague michael cashman, about human rights and the situation of lgbt people in ukraine. right now, several homophobic laws that violate human rights are being considered in the ukrainian parliament. i am thinking particularly of act 1155, which prohibits propaganda for homosexuality. sadly, however, there are more examples of this disturbing trend. another is the exclusion of sexual orientation as a ground for discrimination in new legislation. i choose to see the vote tomorrow on visa facilitation as part of a process where the abolition of visa requirements is the ultimate goal. i will vote in favour of the amendment to the existing treaties, despite my heart bleeding. my position is clear, though: no further steps towards visa-free travel will be taken if the homophobic laws are passed, if the rights of lgbt people are violated. it's a given for me, standing up for human rights.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to danuta hübner. she's really done a great job of trying to bring us together and unite us. in times of economic crisis, it is very important to keep the european union together from north to south. that's the most important thing to me. the commissioner was in on it himself. of course, the non-euro area countries in crisis must also be able to receive support. you have to create opportunities for this that are somewhat similar. we have seen that we have created completely different instruments for the euro area, more tangible and, of course, necessary. the same update must now be made with the support tools available for non-euro area countries, which are now being made possible. i would say, however, that it is clear that we can go further. that said, i am also listening to markus ferber, and his views are also shared by my own group. we must therefore ensure that no one can enter the back door of either the ssm or the esm, even if we open the way to new instruments. i can understand that. that's not the point. that is why we have made an amendment after some discussion, which danuta hübner and the others should of course also be aware of. in the proposal contained in paragraph 7, we add the following to the text: subject to the condition that the participation in the ssm and esm is permanent and foresees the same rights and obligations as for euro member states. it was a compromise to get the group as a whole to support danuta hübner's proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the world outside this house, welfare is being destroyed by the eu's austerity policies. women and men are driven into poverty, reduced to misery, forced into unemployment and deprived of a future. much of this is linked to the trojan's one-eyed policy, which does not look at the whole economy, but only has a camera and a narrow view of what economics is. there are many of us who hope for change, many who want to put people before money. but the eu does not seem to be in the mood for fresh winds. no, we breathe the same air over and over again. this proposal is nothing but a repetition of what is now the case for the euro countries. but now austerity policy is also being exported to other eu countries. if they die of economic problems, the eu will hit them with neoliberal candy. it may be mild at first, but in the long run, it always ends with toothache and stomach cramps. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i just want to ask mikael gustafsson one question: where does danuta hübner's report mention the abdominal clip? i haven't been able to find that exact text. i don't think the rest of what you brought is there either. you're making a false statement of what this text is about. it's the opposite. it is about saving the people and the inhabitants of countries in crisis, so that if countries cannot do it themselves, they will receive assistance on the same terms as they do now. that's how sweden dealt with its troubles in the '90s. magnify, where is it?
the answer ('blue card'). i do not know where olle schmidt has been for the last five years when he talks about austerity policy. obviously not here, because this policy is just the same. it is a question of taking the macrofinancial measures now being implemented everywhere and applying the same rules to these new countries. if you think it is fair that the countries that are not part of the euro should have the same conditions - yes, then you may think it is fair, but it is the same austerity policy that those countries will get. they will not get money unless they do the same things, i.e. reduce the public sector, cut welfare, raise the retirement age and lower wages.
in writing. − the annual report of the european court of auditors showed a slight increase in the overall error rate from 3.7 to 3.9 per cent in the implementation of the eu budget. this is troubling. the european commission is ultimately responsible for the use of eu money. however, the court's criticism is not directed primarily at the commission but at the member states. although the commission is formally responsible for implementing the eu budget, the proportion is not due to the commission but mainly occurs in those eu policy areas which are subject to 'shared management' between the eu and the member states (i.e. areas with co-financing, notably the structural funds). the main spending areas of the eu budget, regional and agricultural policies, account for the largest share of the overall increase in errors. we therefore believe that the commission should be given a discharge and that the member states should instead discuss in the council measures to remedy these errors. we also want to point out that we do not want to increase the share of 'own resources' in the revenue system of the eu budget.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the budget for the european parliament, although we are not prepared to defend every detail of the proposal voted on by the plenary. we believe that there is considerable expenditure which is not related to the core activities of parliament. for example, we have repeatedly voted against spending money on our own history museum in connection with the discharge.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the ecb's annual report. the original draft report by the econ committee, named after mep marisa matia, contained significant criticism of the ecb and important calls for greater openness and transparency. it also put forward proposals for alternative ways out of the economic crisis. unfortunately, the right-wing majority of parliament, during the plenary vote, managed to change the content of the report to the extent that mr matias himself withdrew his name from the report. when the content of the report became so clearly a right-wing report, i chose to vote against.
madam president, in less than three months we will have croatian members of this parliament when we start our july session. i think that is an expression of something even bigger than what happens in this plenary, because it is an expression of the fact that croatia will be a member of the european union just like everyone else in this union. that makes the european union bigger but also more important. it is a result of the long development in political leadership that has reformed croatia. it is a membership which changes the situation for croatians, with new opportunities all over europe, but it is also changing the overall opportunities in the western balkans, with a clear sign that membership is possible for countries and nations which are reforming. i think it is an important task for all of us to ensure that, in doing this, we are not creating new borders in the western balkans but new possibilities. it is also important to underline that now we have common tasks ahead: fighting corruption and organised crime – that is important everywhere, and wherever we find it – and of course ensuring that we can achieve the vitality to our economies that will be a guarantee for future prosperity and opportunities. this is a common task, and i think it is important to see that this is a historic step we are taking. thanks to all who have contributed to that.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, thank you once again. when the council assessed progress on enlargement at its meeting on 11 december 2012, as you know, it took a positive view of progress in montenegro towards eu accession. specific issues highlighted included the strengthening of the functioning of the parliament, the judiciary, anti-corruption policy, human rights and the protection of rights of persons belonging to minorities. the council also noted that ongoing constitutional and public administration reforms had advanced. montenegro has also continued to implement smoothly its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement and to play a very positive role in the region, including through constructive involvement in developing regional cooperation. many of these issues are also reflected in your resolution, and i would like to take this opportunity to particularly thank the rapporteur, charles tannock, for his report and his very positive contribution to advancing montenegro’s accession process. montenegro now needs to build on the progress it has achieved so far and consolidate its reform process. particular attention needs to be paid to the further development of a solid track record in the area of the rule of law. sustainable and lasting reform is needed, in particular with regard to tackling organised crime and cases of corruption, including at senior level. the council has welcomed europol’s report on the issue of organised crime in montenegro. further efforts are needed to ensure the accountability and independence of the judiciary and to strengthen the administrative capacity to implement the acquis. overall, the accession negotiations have got off to a very good start. the cyprus presidency was able to open the first of the negotiation chapters with montenegro, namely science and research. i am pleased to say that the irish presidency has been able, in its turn, to open a second chapter, education and culture, at an accession conference which took place earlier this week. we will do our utmost over the coming months to achieve further progress in the negotiations, including, if possible, the opening of a further chapter. we are satisfied that, in parallel with the negotiations, the screening process is continuing to make very good progress. in december the eu completed its screening of the key rule-of-law chapters, which cover the judiciary and fundamental rights, and justice, freedom and security. montenegro has been invited to prepare the required action plans which constitute the opening benchmarks for these chapters. we do not expect to open negotiations on these chapters during the irish presidency. the preparatory work needed must be of a very high quality, and this means that it will take some time. however, we will continue to encourage montenegro to take this work forward as quickly as possible. this should allow it to tackle these chapters at an early stage in the enlargement process and to start developing a solid track record on the reform agenda, which of course is very important to the council and, i believe, to parliament as well. we would hope to see montenegro submit the required action plans during our presidency in order to allow for consideration of these issues by the council, and we are certainly urging them to do that. so you will appreciate that there is a great deal to be done during our presidency. it is important to keep up the very positive momentum that we have seen in recent months, and i can absolutely assure you of the irish presidency’s commitment to making as much progress as possible in these negotiations. i would like to end by acknowledging and expressing again my appreciation for the work of parliament, and of your rapporteur, in helping to take forward montenegro’s accession process. i very much welcome the close cooperation between our two institutions, and i look forward to continuing to hear your views and taking into account your particular expertise as we move these negotiations forward.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur for montenegro, charles tannock, for this draft resolution. it reflects well the findings of the 2012 progress report on the country. montenegro continues to make great progress on its path towards the european union. the decision to open accession negotiations last june opened a new chapter in the history of the country’s place in europe. in the meantime we have entered the substantive stage of the accession negotiations. the screening process of all chapters is under way. we were able to provisionally close chapter 25, science and research, in december, and chapter 26, education and culture, just three days ago. we have started with the chapters relating to the rule of law, in line with the new approach, and we will maintain this focus. i would at this point like to congratulate the irish presidency for an excellent job done. i would like to make four remarks about the main challenges that lie ahead. firstly, priority needs to be given to the completion of the ongoing constitutional reform to ensure the independence and accountability of the judiciary, in line with the recommendations of the venice commission. finalising this reform will be crucial to making progress in the accession negotiations. secondly, some progress has been made in the fight against corruption and organised crime, but the number of investigations, prosecutions and indictments remains low. thirdly, full compliance with european standards in the area of fundamental rights is essential for montenegro to move ahead with its european integration. the protection of media freedom needs to be ensured. we call on the montenegrin authorities, at all levels, to step up their efforts to investigate and prosecute current and past cases of violence against journalists. fourthly, further efforts are needed to improve the situation of the roma, ashkali and egyptian communities and of displaced persons by ensuring access to their civil and political rights and their economic and social rights. our dialogue with montenegro on these outstanding challenges will continue and intensify during the negotiations. allow me to make a brief remark regarding the recent presidential elections, which are being contested. montenegro is a country negotiating for european union membership. any complaints need to be dealt with swiftly. the election result must be beyond reproach. i am confident that montenegro’s political leaders will take measures to reinforce the credibility of public institutions as well as their independence from party political interests.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? the day before the decision was to be taken on whether montenegro should be allowed to enter into negotiations or not, i sat down and talked to some of the people who were going to decide on this. at that time there were some who said that montenegro had not completed its reforms, that the fight against corruption and organised crime was not at the level we would like to see when a country becomes a member, and that there was still a lot to be done in terms of various reforms. my argument, and that of a few others, was that this is precisely why we should start negotiations. it is then that we will have the greatest opportunity to influence the country and bring about the changes we want to see. and then the country started negotiating, and that's exactly what happened. thanks to your genius, commissioner, in deciding that all future negotiations should start with chapters 22 and 23. i know that you did a great deal in many countries during your term of office, but if there is one thing i will remember you for it is this decision, because i think it was the absolute best thing that could have happened for the whole region and for all the countries that are starting negotiations. not to punish them, but to give them the opportunity to have sufficient time over a long period to bring about these changes. as regards the presidential election, i would agree with what mr charles tannock has just said. the oece commission has had a report, and according to that report the elections were free and fair, and so far i have not seen any other official report than this one. i would urge the parties and both candidates to accept what was the official result and to resolve the remaining ambiguities in a constructive way and within the institutions, and only within the institutions, because that is how they will demonstrate both their own political maturity and that of their country. that is what will ultimately count when we begin to see montenegro seriously as a full member of our family.
mr president, i would like to thank you. madam secretary! commissioner, what is it? since last year's report on serbia, a lot has happened in the country. we have not only seen new elections and a new government, we have also seen a lot of reforms. the new government has shown the ability to deliver concrete results in cases where previously it only showed its commitment in words. our report highlights a number of areas where further improvements are needed, but it sends a clear and positive signal to serbia that we recognise the progress it has made. we call on the council to start negotiations with serbia as soon as possible and to set a date. not because we think that all the work is done, but because we think that the best way to correct what needs to be corrected and to do what needs to be done is to start negotiations. some of the legal reform has now been implemented and the new laws have actually come into force this week. we will monitor its implementation closely so that there is no room for misinterpretation or abuse of the rules, as was sometimes the case in the past. finally, i would like to say that i support the continuation of the dialogue between kosovo and serbia. i think it was very wise for the european commission to extend the time for the publication of the commission's report and to give serbia and kosovo a little more time to take advantage of this historic opportunity and to reach a solution which would be in the interest not only of serbia and kosovo, but of the whole of the balkans, and indeed in the interest of the eu as well.
madam president, parliament has in its historic vote on reform of the common fisheries policy actually shown that it really is responsible – a lot more responsible in fact than the council, which has systematically decided on tacs which are so much higher than scientific advice that today, some 70 % of europe’s fish stocks are overfished. that is not a great result. we need the long-term management plans. i really appreciate the efforts made by the irish presidency, but we cannot start all over again with each new presidency. the council as a whole needs to be responsible and to show the people of europe that it can in fact manage on decision-making. the lisbon treaty gives us co-decision on long-term management plans – they are the cornerstones of the future cfp, and if we want to win back the confidence of european citizens in the eu, this would in fact be a good example. i really think that the irish presidency should take up the possibility of finalising this.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would to like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, because this negotiation procedure has not been the traditional ‘i want this, you want that, let’s meet in the middle’. no, it has truly involved listening to each other, integrating each other’s proposals and – after months of deliberations – finally finding a proposal that is workable and highly economically efficient. the aim of this is to deal with the massive market failure that is the vast majority of ships being scrapped illegally, in contravention of the 14-year-old basel ban on the export of hazardous waste. this report will feature a financial instrument that will make it profitable for shipowners to scrap their ships legally. the money collected will go back to the sector if they follow the law. therefore, its aim is to make the market work well again and to protect workers and the environment. there has been a massive lobbying campaign against this proposal by the ports, but it is actually based on incorrect information. i will make a complaint with reference to the lobbying rules on this, because a lot of information has been circulating that is not correct. they have been warning against huge administrative burdens, while the impact assessment said that this is a very efficient administrative way to deal with this problem. they have been claiming that port costs would increase massively, up to 167%, while the true figure is 3.2%. so, please support these financial instruments – amendments 31 and 32 – so that we can negotiate with the council, which stands ready to negotiate with us.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to apply rule 57 in this case too and postpone the vote on the legislative resolution in order to negotiate with the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the progress report on turkey, which gives a balanced picture of the state of eu-turkey relations. turkey has made considerable progress, but challenges remain. i therefore support the implementation of the 'positive agenda' to push forward the necessary reforms. among other things, it is important that turkey's judicial system be made more transparent and that the new constitution of turkey be drafted in an open and democratic manner to guarantee equal rights for all citizens of turkey. i am particularly committed to freedom of expression, including online, and welcome the fact that the report highlights the problems of imprisoned journalists and long periods of pre-trial detention. i also support visa liberalisation with simplified procedures between the eu and turkey, especially for entrepreneurs, academics and students. another important step forward is the ongoing constructive dialogue to reach a peaceful solution to the kurdish question. i am glad that we also voted to open negotiating chapters on regional, social and legal issues as soon as possible. at the same time, more reforms are needed in turkey to address key issues such as violence against women, minority rights, media freedom and, not least, relations with cyprus.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. forty years ago, i was a little boy growing up in the united states. proudly, they said, the country of the free. people were trying to end the war in vietnam, they were taking to the streets, they were advocating respect for the law, equality before the law, equality for all. people defended the united states and its values and tried to end the wars of the time. now there is a new war - the war on terror. now there's torture and abuse and there are illegal prisons hidden behind walls, beyond the scope of public view. it is time for us to help the american people defend open and law-based democracy, instead of waging a war on terrorism, so that we do not get the new epithet the country of the incarcerated.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the eu's 20% renewable energy target is only valid until 2020. that means we have to be in a hurry if we want to give the states and the market planning preconditions. should they invest in renewable energy or should they invest in coal power and shale gas? they have a time perspective that makes us make decisions now, so they know what paths are there to choose from. the best method we know of to stimulate renewables is binding targets for renewable energy deployment. this will also be the overriding issue in tomorrow's vote. against this background, the text of the report by mr herbert reul is very inadequate. we do not need more studies to delay, nor more analyses to delay the process. we know that it is possible to increase the share of renewable energy. then let's do this. we are deciding on the future energy market, the future energy consumption and production, and we cannot just look backwards. it is worrying that herbert reul and günther oettinger, two men of about the same age, from the same party group and from the same member state, think so much alike on this issue. i am worried about tomorrow and the future of the energy market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. renewable energy is good for the environment, everyone understands that. i also think we could emphasize more how important they are for peace. every drop of oil the eu does not buy increases peace on earth. secondly, i would also like to stress the importance of local and resilient energy systems. renewable energy can be produced by anyone, it breaks the monopoly of the big companies, and we can finally have energy democracy. there's another benefit that i don't think has been brought up enough here. and this talk about them being intermittent, that's probably not true either. modern solar power plants don't have to be solar cells, they can be heated boiling salt that in turn keeps the turbines running around the clock. it could be a continuous source of energy. 45% by 2030 is a realistic target, and it is a good target for europe's people, europe's environment and europe's industry.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i get a tragic picture of humanity: that we have to go to the far north in the arctic and the deepest ocean to find the last drops of oil and gas - it's like a drug for us, this oil addiction. moreover, we are throwing money into the sea in this way, for we have already found more coal, oil and gas than we can safely burn. it's a waste of capital and a waste of the environment and a risk-taking like no other. that's why we should ban drilling in the arctic and the deep sea. moreover, the attitude of the council of ministers is incomprehensible: if you kill a peaceful seabird, you're punished in every country, and if you destroy someone else's land and house with chemicals or fire, well, you're in jail, but the ministers are fighting tooth and nail to keep the oil companies from being held legally accountable. criminal sanctions for destroying thousands of properties and millions of birds, that's an unreasonable attitude. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that parliament is able to take a strong stand today in the fight against tax evasion. i am also pleased that both of parliament's reports are so clear about the link between reduced tax evasion and higher growth. in fact, the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is crucial to generating long-term sustainable growth. on the one hand, reduced tax evasion makes for healthier public finances. more budgetary space is being created for forward-looking investments in education, research, infrastructure and the green transition that are now needed to get the wheels of the european economy turning. on the one hand, a reduction in tax fraud helps to create a level playing field where shady companies are not allowed to take advantage. this effect should not be underestimated. a prerequisite for positive economic development is that serious entrepreneurs are given a fair chance to compete. it is now up to the heads of state or government to deliver at the summit tomorrow. they have every opportunity to get their hands on the cheat. parliament's reports show that there are a wide range of effective tools to be used. it's just a matter of political attitude. it's all about attitude. with the right political will, excellent results can be achieved.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as people across europe feel the effects of welfare cuts, it is provocative that many of the largest companies, funds and foundations have questionable schemes to avoid taxes. taxes should be reasonable, but they should be paid in solidarity. tax rates vary from country to country, but this is natural because welfare is financed in different ways. however, it is important to finally come up with a common corporate tax base. i see, mr president, that the speaker after me is mr hökmark, and i can assure you all that we are, at least, two of those paying the highest rates of income tax in this house.
mr president, we have been discussing the crisis and how to get out of it. it is important to state that growth is the way to get out of this crisis. that is one of the very many reasons to fight tax fraud and tax evasion, not only because it is criminal behaviour but also because it creates unfair conditions for competition and investments and because it means that investments are, unfairly, being made in other parts of the world rather than in the european union. but i think it is also important to state that we need to have taxes that do not give rise to tax evasion and investment flows to other parts of the world. we need to have competitive taxes that foster growth, investment and new jobs. this means that company taxes or income taxes must enable us to see economic development, investment and growth here in europe. i would like to say to the commissioner – in respect of taxes, among other things – that what we have seen is that financial transaction taxes do not help; they give rise to tax evasion. i can assure you – and we have discussed this before – that we have very clear experience of this from sweden but also from other parts of the world. we must not have taxes that can be abused by those who would wish to evade them. we must have competitive taxes, and we must focus on growth here in europe. we need to have stable and balanced public spending which can foster competitive taxes. increased public spending is not the way out of the crisis; it has been shown to be the way into deeper crisis. we need to have strict public finances and public spending which allows for competitive taxes, then we will avoid tax evasion and foster economic growth in the europe we love. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer to ms podimata. – i would like to thank ms podimata for the question, and i would like to tell her a secret: it is always the taxpayers who pay the taxes and it is always the citizens who pay the taxes, whether we are bank customers and wherever we are. however, i would like us to have fair taxes which stimulate job creation and investment in europe, and which stimulate european companies to invest more in research, science and production in europe. i would like to have taxes that foster more growth. that is why i think we need to look at these issues. we need fair measures in relation to tax collection in our member states. we need fair and balanced taxes, and i hope that ms podimata will agree with me on that point. it is a good argument against the financial transaction tax and some other solutions built on the belief that we can solve all the problems through higher public spending and higher taxes. that is not the case.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the broadcasting of television programmes. we would also like to stress that restrictions on the right of the organisers to dispose of their arrangements and their rights to them should be limited to the minimum possible. we also oppose the exclusion of audiovisual services from the general agreement on trade in services (gats).
in writing. − i voted against this report because, even if i believe that media freedom and media pluralism should be respected in all the member states, i do not think that there should be legislation at eu level in this area, in particular on media concentration and ownership. in addition, i could not support some other proposals in the report which are very intrusive with national legislation, such as decriminalising defamation.
in writing. - we social democrats believe that a free and independent media and the free exchange of information are essential for any democracy. as the weber report contains proposals concerning the threats to media freedom in several eu member states, including hungary, we decided to support the report in the final vote. however, we firmly reject, among other things, the wording relating to the appointment of officials in the public service and in media regulatory authorities.
in writing. - we have chosen to support the report on media freedom standards in the eu. it is an important own-initiative report from parliament which highlights the problems of several member states with a lack of freedom of the press. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the charter of fundamental rights became binding and it is therefore our responsibility to ensure that the eu has the tools to ensure that it is respected. we regret that there are some passages in the report calling on member states to decriminalise defamation of honour. we believe that this is wrong and we would actively oppose such a proposal if it were to become law. however, the report's writing is linked to the freedom of journalists and media to critically observe without being reported for slander, and is not directed against private individuals. we consider the report to be so important in the present situation that we cannot in good conscience reject the other good proposals on this basis and have therefore chosen to give the report our support in its entirety.
in writing. - we voted today in the european parliament for a report on sustainable pensions in the long term. we believe that it is important to have stable pension systems in the eu member states, but decisions on the design of pension systems should be taken at national level and be guided by the principle of subsidiarity. we also want to emphasize that we are opposed to any tax on financial transactions.
in writing. - we voted today in the european parliament for a report on sustainable pensions in the long term. we believe that it is important to have stable pension systems in the eu member states, but decisions on the design of pension systems should be taken at national level and be guided by the principle of subsidiarity. we also want to emphasize that we are opposed to any tax on financial transactions.
blue-card question. – i have the most sincere respect for my dear friend wolf klinz, but i must ask him, is it not dangerous to divide europe even further at this stage? is it not dangerous? do we not need an inclusive way of dealing with all countries, all 27 (soon to be 28) member states? would you not agree that it would actually be better to include countries like my own, sweden?
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is a lot of fine talk here in the session about why we should have a banking union, but nothing really shows that central supervision would be better than national supervision. bad laws and regulations are just as bad whether decisions are taken at central or national level. instead of a banking union, each country should do two other things: first, to require the banks to split their activities; one part being the traditional banking activity and another being the speculative activity. firstly, we should increase controls on financial markets. they have been deregulated for a very long time in a very irresponsible way, and this deregulation has also led to the financial crisis that we have now. with these two proposals, bank separation and re-regulation, there would really be stability in the financial sector and ordinary people would be able to avoid paying for the casino economy of the bankers.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the banks can no longer be effectively supervised at national level. i therefore have a completely opposite view to that which mikael gustavsson referred to earlier. we need a single strong european supervisory authority, not 27 or 28 weak ones. in a time of economic uncertainty, the european central bank is the most important stabilising factor in europe. what would europe be without the ecb? we need common rules and methods for dealing with banks in crisis, perhaps a bank bailout, as we have had good experience in my country, and a common deposit guarantee. unfortunately, mr president, sweden has chosen to remain outside the banking union, at least for the time being. i regret that and so does the ruling party i represent. swedish banks were in trouble in the 1990s. i was a member of parliament when interest rates were 500% and on the way up to 2000% before the currency became liquid. memory is short, and today europe's and sweden's banks are international. there is no guarantee that sweden will not be hit again, and sweden should therefore join the banking union. all countries participating in the ssm joint supervisory mechanism shall have the same rights and obligations. i think there are proposals that are going in the right direction. finally, i would like to put a question to mr giegold. what would your advice be to the swedish government and your green friends in stockholm? should they join this ssm or should they be left behind and actually not be a part of it? i think we are listening to you, sven, in stockholm.
mr president, i think it is important for us to have more stable banks, better supervision and better ways of recovering and resolving banks. i think it is too easy to believe that we can solve these problems just by institutional reform. it is not that easy, and sometimes when i listen to the discussion, it seems like some colleagues and friends believe that we are making something at european level that will solve the problem. that is not the case. i think, first of all, that we need to use the union we already have – that is, the european union – which is dealing with banking legislation in a number of areas. i think we should welcome the fact that we have the new directive on capital requirements, because it will increase the stability of banks. we have a process and negotiations with deposit guarantee schemes, which is important for depositors and for security in the banking market. we had the opportunity yesterday to reach a decision in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament on the directive on the recovery and resolution of banks, and we now have a mandate to start negotiations with the council as soon as the council is ready. we welcome that. i think these pieces and cornerstones are important to remember when we discuss how to proceed. i think it is important that we can bring about a better and stronger supervisory regime for cross-border issues. i think the common supervisory mechanism we are talking about is a contribution to that. however, i think at the same time that it is also important that we proceed without creating a new fragmentation or division – neither a political division, nor a fragmentation of the market – because, in spite of our objective of strengthening supervision, it is important that we do not undermine the things we have, and also that we can mobilise the strength of the european union economically, financially and politically. i welcome the report and the opportunities as regards the non-euro members. i would, however, like to stress one thing: when we proceed, let us assess what we have achieved already and ensure that we are not creating new fragmentation and division, because we need stronger and better supervision.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a good thing that we have now reached a final decision on the new ecb supervision. this is a major step forward in the stabilisation of the banking sector. at the same time, we must be clear that much remains to be done. the practical operation of supervision will require consistent efforts over a long period of time. first, we must ensure that the ecb's supervisory function is given sufficient resources to be able to act effectively. it must not be undersized. a major factor behind the crisis was that several national regulatory authorities were too small to do a good job. they fell into the lap of powerful banking interests. secondly, we must ensure that the ecb becomes a constructive, cooperative player in the european supervisory work. the ecb shall contribute to convergence and integration not to fragmentation. the ecb must respect the eba's overall responsibility for banking supervision in the eu. the ecb must also respect the competence and experience of the national supervisory authorities. thirdly, we must ensure that the ecb's supervision is really characterised by transparency and dialogue with elected representatives and citizens alike. in order to build this necessary legitimacy, the new supervisory function must be transparent, clear and consistent in its actions. ecb supervision has all the potential to become a major asset, but this requires reasonable conditions and committed scrutiny and debate.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i, and i'm sure most of us here tonight, regret that reading among our young people seems to be declining year by year. but the very thought of no longer having the natural and unrestricted access to the world's literature is appalling to me. unfortunately, this is a painful reality for many, many visually impaired people in the eu today. for me and for the liberal group, it is obvious that we should support access to literature for the visually impaired, and i really hope that agreement will soon be reached on an international agreement within the framework of wipo to facilitate access to literature for the visually impaired. we should remember the copyright. it exists to protect creative creation, to safeguard quality and to enable writers, poets, playwrights and others to make a living from their literary work. however, copyright must never be an obstacle to the right of visually impaired persons to have direct, immediate and equal access to literature. i and the alde group share the concerns that several colleagues have raised earlier about articles d and e, and i hope that commissioner barnier here tonight can bring clarity to this and that parliament's views will be taken into account in the final negotiations on the agreement which i hope will be a success for us all. anything else would be deeply unworthy of our union.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the good commissioner borg. it is a pleasure to discuss this important subject with you here tonight. the stockholm programme is focused on an open europe with citizens at its core. we will now evaluate how it has been implemented, what has been good and where we have work to do. the programme states, among other things, that we will create a common european asylum system. we have now succeeded, and at a time when the economies of the member states of europe have been under very, very heavy strain. the fact that we have now succeeded is a great, great success and i cannot express my joy enough at this, which will raise the standards, the security and the legal certainty for asylum seekers but also work for solidarity between our member states when it is fully implemented. we also undertake in the programme to intensify the resettlement of refugees in cooperation with the unhcr, and there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, because we in the eu have extremely low numbers compared to other parts of the world in terms of taking in quota refugees. i also wanted to talk a lot about labour immigration but time is very short. i have recently been appointed rapporteur for the directive on students and researchers from third countries coming to the eu, and it is very important that we get this in place, because we need to stop the flight of researchers and experts to the united states and other countries. we need them here in our union. in conclusion, i would also like to remind commissioner borg that the commission has given a commitment to deliver a proposal on mutual recognition of civil status documents. this is what the commission promised in the stockholm programme action plan, but nothing has been done. i do not want to believe that the commission intends to break this promise, which could mean that the commission will not be able to meet the commitments it has made in the past.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. during this term of office many of us have worked very hard to get a regulation on inheritance, which i am convinced will help in transnational inheritance disputes. it is also gratifying that you, commissioner, seem to be convinced that this is an issue you want to tackle, unlike the previous case we discussed. this is important it is a question of which country should tax an inheritance when several countries are involved, and this has to be solved soon, because citizens contact us all the time because they end up in situations where they receive contradictory information in different countries regarding property, such as real estate and the taxation of these. of course, tax matters are a matter for the member states and it is reasonable that the member states also design their systems of inheritance tax, but it is also unreasonable that our citizens are subject to double taxation in cases where inheritance involves several member states. we must expect simple, clear legal systems where we know what rules apply if we do not have to pay the same tax twice. i would now like to ask the commission what initiatives it intends to take to investigate and further work on this important issue. it is now that we must help our member states to find common solutions to bring clarity to the citizens on these issues, and i thank you for that.
mr president, public access to documents is important in order to increase openness and involve citizens in our legislative process. after years of work to revise the regulation, the time has come to break the deadlock. parliament is ready, and i call on the commission, the council and the presidency to sit down at the table and relaunch negotiations on the outstanding issues in a constructive spirit. the new regulation should be adopted by the end of the mandate. it is not about shortcuts or compromises at any cost: it is about enhancing transparency with a responsible and clear commitment. at a time when brussels seems far away from our homes, the european institutions need to join forces to rebuild trust in them – or are we treating transparency with secrecy? what are we afraid of? we have nothing to hide. of course exceptions should be made, and it is a complex issue. data protection and personal integrity should be respected. but, dear sophia, public access does not mean wikileaks. i myself will continue to be committed to transparency and accountability for my own activities as a member of parliament, publishing my calendar and the list of lobbyists that i meet, and standing and arguing against any secret ballot. citizens have the right to know how we take decisions on their behalf which affect their lives. let us open our doors and encourage them not only to follow, but also to participate. let us make them feel that they are part of a community where decisions are taken democratically. let us show them that they are truly represented. please let us move together and adopt this regulation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, sophia, for clarifying that it is not about wikileaks, because personal integrity and fighting defamation are very important – but that is not what we want to achieve in opening up our files to the citizens of europe. i do think that there is a broad consensus within the epp family that we want to have increased transparency and increased openness, and that we want to bridge the democratic gap with citizens. there are ways of looking at exceptions when it comes to the legal basis, when it comes to informal trialogues, when we meet in the corridors and exchange a piece of paper and when it comes to protecting some of the businesses in the commission’s dealings on competition; that needs to be discussed. i think we all agree that negotiations have to start again and that we have to break the deadlock.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this debate is not really appropriate in an open and modern eu in 2013. it feels like this debate should have taken place decades ago. the first question we must ask ourselves is: who owns the documents and the information? is it the eu institutions, is it the commission, are we members of the european parliament? no, for me it is clear that the documents belong to the citizens, and they have a right to see them. who are we to rule it? it is regrettable that the commission has not shown a better and clearer leadership and forward thinking on this issue. keeping secrets is not the future. the lisbon treaty stipulates that the eu institutions must operate with greater openness, and i therefore regret that the commission's proposal is so backward and restricts openness. it does not fit in with the open, modern and citizen-centred eu that i want to see and believe in.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. we talk a lot about freedom of movement, but if you're a human being who is threatened, often by someone you thought you loved, someone you lived with before, then suddenly you're no longer subject to freedom of movement, but instead you're a prisoner in a place where you have this person under a ban on experimentation. now it is so fortunate that this house, this parliament, together with the commission and the council have managed to come up with something very good which now guarantees that the ban on visits/protection goes with the person who is threatened. in this way, freedom of movement is now a reality and not just a dream for many of the women who have lived under the most difficult conditions, under threat and oppression. our duty as politicians is to make life easier for everyone. i think the final result we have achieved with the two acts is very good. there are certainly some beauty spots, but i really welcome the fact that we now have a comprehensive package to protect the freedom of movement of those of our citizens who are under threat. it is a very, very important step in safeguarding the right of everyone to benefit from what is one of the cornerstones of our european cooperation.
in writing. the swedish social democrats welcome this report as a whole. however, we cannot support the vague wording on own resources, the commission's independence and growth in paragraph 9. we do not share the view that the commission needs to be more independent in its proposals in order to make the eu budget a useful instrument for promoting growth. there is no relevant link between the growth profile of the budget and the commission's independence. the budget can be made much more growth-friendly without increasing the degree of autonomy.
in writing. - we voted today in the european parliament in strasbourg in favour of the annual tax report. however, we do not share the view expressed in the report that the eu should be financed from its own resources, but still believe that the eu should receive its appropriations through membership fees from the member states.
madam president, i supported the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters because, together with the adoption of the european protection order, it will strengthen the protection of victims of crimes and violence in the eu. women, children and all those who suffer from domestic violence, stalking and harassment in europe will be able to receive the same protection that they receive in their own member state if they move to another one, with simplified procedures and without waiting to go through another court procedure. mutual recognition in civil matters will help the judiciary and the police not only to protect victims better but also to prevent cross-border and mobile crime. i think today we can reassure many of the victims who live in fear that they will finally be able to move freely through the member states. in adopting this directive we are taking a significant step forward in creating an area of freedom and security in europe.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the broadcasting of television programmes. we would also like to stress that restrictions on the right of the organisers to dispose of their arrangements and their rights to them should be limited to the minimum possible. we also oppose the exclusion of audiovisual services from the general agreement on trade in services (gats).
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the broadcasting of television programmes. we would also like to stress that restrictions on the right of the organisers to dispose of their arrangements and their rights to them should be limited to the minimum possible. we also oppose the exclusion of audiovisual services from the general agreement on trade in services (gats).
madam president, i would like to thank you. yes, it is undeniable, as has been said here many times, that it is a scandal for the international community that this can go on month after month after month. i personally think that russia has been singled out as the culprit in the drama far too small and far too much by the countries and foreign administrations here in europe. now russia is trying to play some kind of first fiddle in amman in negotiations there with the united states. we know, and we will underline, how the russians have behaved in the security council and then with their arms deliveries. we are talking about 8 million people in need of humanitarian aid, 8 million! that's about the population of sweden or the population of belgium or the population of austria. a figure that is therefore almost unimaginable to us. and it is clear that if we are to speak of solidarity and humanity, we must make sure that we are here to make a contribution. we now talk about budgetary matters quite often here in the european parliament. here, commissioner, madam president, it is being said that considerable sums will be needed not only at present but for a considerable time to come, and i really hope that the eu can help to ensure that these sums are provided. if not, there is every reason to assume both chaos and collapse in this region. (applause) i would like to thank you.
madam president, commissioner, this is, of course, genocide that is going on in syria. the question we have to ask ourselves is: why libya? why not syria? all those who say, for fully-grounded reasons, that we should not lift the embargo have to answer that question: why libya? why not syria? 25 000 refugees came to europe last year: one third to germany, one third to my own country and the rest to the european union. that is about 4%, and that is not very much. my question to you, commissioner (and ms flautre raised the issue as well) is: what about the temporary protection directive used in kosovo? is it not time to act? also, could you consider lifting the visa requirement for syrians to give them a chance to come to europe?
mr president, i would like to thank you. a free trade agreement between the eu and the us is probably the best emergency measure we can take. that could deliver growth of up to 2%. it may sound small, but it is after all equivalent to the entire economy of denmark or austria. but it is easy to start free trade negotiations, it is difficult to conclude them, and that is why i am sorry to hear that so many colleagues here seem to want to make it even more difficult to achieve a free trade agreement by excluding one area after another: audiovisual services, agriculture, etc. it's like swiss cheese. in the end, it's more holes than cheese. but the more we exclude from free trade negotiations, the less europe will gain, and that seems to be the aim of the left half of this parliament. but your opposition to free trade is costing jobs, it is putting people out of work, and therefore we must instead strive for the most ambitious agreement we can, because, as the americans say, it is a win-win. together, europe and the united states now have the ability to make a global impact on this agreement, but in 10 years it may be too late, because then india, china and others may have grown past us, and history will never forgive those who now refuse to conclude an ambitious free trade agreement.
mr president, i would like to remind the commission about the acta agreement that this parliament rejected less than one year ago. there were a number of reasons why the parliament said no to the acta agreement that the commission had negotiated, but at the very heart of it was the lack of transparency. it makes me very disappointed that the commission is setting itself up for exactly the same kind of failure once again. the positive thing about the whole acta affair was that there are now hundreds of thousands of european citizens who have, at least once, been demonstrating on the streets of various european cities against the trade agreement. there are lots of citizens now who take an interest in these agreements. this is a very positive thing, but by insisting on the same kind of secrecy – only handing out secret documents to the members of the inta committee – the commission is setting itself up for the same kind of failure. i would urge you to re-think this and become transparent.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on international trade, and in particular its rapporteur david martin, for their excellent cooperation on the commission’s proposal to reinstate preferential treatment to myanmar/burma. this reflects the great progress made by this country in its economic and political reforms, including in the field of labour rights. duty and quota-free treatment will contribute to the country’s economic development, as has already been the case with other beneficiaries of this scheme. in 1997 myanmar/burma’s access to our generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) was temporarily withdrawn due to serious and systematic practices of forced labour, in contravention of the international labour organisation’s core convention on this issue. but since 2011 the country has been undertaking a programme of openness and reform, which has brought unprecedented positive results, and work to further raise standards continues. on 20 april 2012 this parliament called on the commission to consider allowing myanmar/burma privileged market access to the eu. the same month the foreign affairs council gave guidance recommending reinstating the country to the gsp as soon as the ilo marked progress regarding forced labour. on the same occasion the eu suspended restrictive measures for one year, which have all now been lifted except for the arms embargo. in the meantime, in june 2012 the ilo conference recognised the progress of myanmar/burma towards eradicating forced labour, and lifted restrictions which excluded the government of the country from receiving ilo technical cooperation. this allowed the commission to reassess the legal conditions for withdrawal of preferences and to present a proposal on 17 september 2012 to reinstate gsp benefits to myanmar/burma. the commission expects that preferences will help increase exports and the income of people in myanmar/burma. we took the decision to apply the regulation retroactively as from 12 june 2012 to allow eu economic operators to engage early enough with the country. judging by the interest received, we have indications that this is happening. this brings me to an important consideration that lies at the core of the resolution this parliament will adopt, and which rightly points to the fundamental role of the government of myanmur/burma in the continuation of the process of full democratisation, consolidation of the rule of law and respect for human rights and freedom in the country. you can most certainly make a significant contribution through development aid, but this will not be enough. in addition, it is important that eu businesses actively contribute to the national effort to establish better living conditions for all. i therefore welcome the emphasis on corporate social responsibility standards in the resolution. there have hardly been any business relations for eu operators with this south asian nation. in this period of new engagement, sustainability of reforms and livelihoods must also be the main focus of eu business interests in the country.
for the ppe group. thank you very much, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner, and thank you also, mr david martin. burma has shown that it wants to move in the democratic direction, but it is particularly important in this context to emphasise that it has wanted to put an end to forced labour. this is something that we should not only reward but that we are obliged to actually acknowledge by giving them back access to gsp and everything but arms. in reality, this means that they will have duty-free access to eu markets, thereby boosting their growth and returning to prosperity. democracy and prosperity often go hand in hand, and i believe that this measure can strengthen both the economic prosperity and the democratic ambitions of the country. of course, burma has a very long way to go burma is not norway, so to speak, and will not be norway in the next few years either. there are still problems of forced labour but, as the ilo noted, not systematically, and there are a host of other problems, not least ethnic strife in burma, to which we should pay attention. but we thought it was important to point out that in this context, in this resolution, we should be talking about this instrument and the gsp and the situation in burma, rather than all the aspects of the problems in burma. equal treatment is also important. burma should not be discriminated against in any way by other countries that have access to everything but arms just because burma has chosen to make this journey now. for example, i do not think that the congo is in any way a less problematic area to do business in, and therefore it would be strange to make special demands on burma. but with the gsp we are now reaching out to burma and showing that we believe in their development. mr president, i also want to thank david martin for raising the question about forced labour in brussels, which he did in his speech. i think you address importantly the fact that all the socialist proposals force me to work late at night and i hope you will stop that forced labor as well. thank you, david.
blue-card question. – mr murphy, the burmese want this. they want trade and investment. aung san suu kyi specifically asked us to reinstate gsp. how did you come to the conclusion that you know better than her what is right for burma? i therefore have to ask you: are you a neo-imperialist who thinks that you know best what is best for burma, or are you just a simple protectionist who does not want to trade with burma? please make a choice.
madam president, i would like to thank you. of course, i too, like the other speakers in this house, would like to express my deepest condolences for the loss of so many families. but i would also like to thank commissioner de gucht for the declaration he gave us. the activity behind that declaration, i think we all appreciate very much. it is very easy in such circumstances to demand legislation, and it would be strange if we did not have views on legislation and regulations. but often, and this is not just the case in bangladesh, there are rules and regulations and laws, but they are not followed. and that is why i think, as mr tannock said, that it is important that we cooperate with the authorities and not act as if the eu were a universal legislator, because it is not the eu. i cannot help but underline what commissioner de gucht also said: it is about mr issues, human rights and freedoms. it is a question of the right of every individual to dignity, and it would be appropriate to quote from the united nations declaration of human rights, where article 3 states that 'everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person', and from article 23, i also quote: 'everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. everyone without any discrimination has the right to equal pay for equal work. everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests". madam president, i think that this is being understated, even though countries have ratified the declaration.
in writing. - we social democrats believe that there are still serious human rights concerns, including arbitrary detentions, forced displacements, land confiscation, the use of child soldiers, aggressive acts against ethnic minorities and a weak judicial system, in burma/myanmar. however, we are responsive to the ilo's conclusions that the legal requirements underlying the reintroduction of trade preferences under the gsp have been met. we also see the positive effects of the gsp on the economies and recovery of countries. the accompanying resolution clearly sets out the european parliament's concerns, demands and criticisms of the country. on the basis of that text and the recommendations of the ilo, we decided to vote in favour of introducing customs preferences for burma/myanmar. these tariff preferences do not fall under the category of sanctions and it is important for us to stress that sanctions against burma/myanmar may be reintroduced if the situation in the country does not improve.
in writing. - in today's vote on a resolution on future legislative proposals in relation to emu, we chose to abstain in the final vote because we are in fact against the proposals announced by the commission in its two communications. however, the text of the resolution itself is balanced insofar as it states that the implementation of already decided macroeconomic frameworks such as the new stability and growth pact, the 2 package, the fiscal pact and the european semester is more important than the commission's presentation of new proposals, and that any future legislative proposal must add something new in order to be relevant. the resolution also details the legislative proposals announced by the commission and states, inter alia, that these will require increased budgetary capacity, which we cannot support. in a unanimous assessment, we therefore decided to abstain.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it was not many years ago that we talked about the genocide in rwanda. the only way to move forward after such a traumatic event for a country is to allow an opposition, a democratic discussion in calm, to go through what has happened and what has not happened, and allow an open and free debate where people in their elections can express which representatives they want to represent them. using the trial as a weapon and destroying the right of defense that people have in a trial, that is a path that will never bring confidence among the people and will never bring reconciliation and a functioning country. that is why it is so important that the case of a single man, in this case an opposition leader, be brought up and discussed here, because once the right of people to defend themselves, to debate and to be voted on is undermined at that level, the wounds of this genocide will never heal and it will remain an open wound that leads to constantly new conflicts. it is therefore important that we address this particular case to highlight that the healing process begins here and now.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should like to begin by saying that i was concerned about the vote in this house a year ago. as socialist shadow rapporteur, i saw dangers in some of the points we decided on at the time. today, however, i am not so worried. we've made progress in the trilateral negotiations, and i'm quite pleased with the outcome. we social democrats believe that new legislation is needed to combat goods that infringe intellectual property rights. the creative industries alone estimate that counterfeiting costs them more than 185,000 jobs and about 10 billion euros a year. the new regulation can protect consumers, rights holders and the internal market, in particular against goods that pose a danger to human health. what we have been afraid of is that the regulation could also stop goods that need to be able to pass through the eu. i'm talking mostly about medication. we know that legal generic medicines pass through the eu on their way to their final destination, and we must protect them. i therefore think it is good that this regulation emphasizes that the commission will present a report on medicines in transit in three years' time. we shall then see whether the regulation needs to be further amended and how implementation has progressed. what i'm not happy with is the right to be heard clause. in cases where the declarant is a consumer, we have worked to strengthen the right to be heard, but unfortunately with poor results. in the ordinary course of proceedings, the right to be heard is waived. for the simplified procedure for the destruction of goods, the declarant is given only 10 days to reply. in the case of small consignments, the right to be heard has been reduced from 20 days to 10 days. the right to defend oneself is a fundamental right and i am disappointed that both the council and my colleagues in the european parliament have wanted to take that right away. i am therefore somewhat dissatisfied, but on the whole i believe that the work of the tripartite negotiations has led to significant improvements. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
mr president, the situation on the european market today is such that a small group of market activists can abuse injunctions to completely block competition on all european markets by exercising intellectual property rights on only one or two markets. member states which control harbours or large end-consumer markets get a disproportionate amount of power over what happens to all european consumers. we tried to solve this with the unitary patent, but the forum shopping risk is still inherent in that system. so now we will be passing new legislation on customs enforcement of intellectual property rights, but the injunction issue remains unsolved. we know about the mobile phone wars and we also know that original car part manufacturers have been fighting with spare part manufacturers for a good many years. i would like to propose to this house that we just get rid of injunctions. they do no good. while we are at it, we could also consider the global exhaustion problem. why are we not implementing global exhaustion? it has been proven, for instance, in new zealand that this is beneficial to consumers, particularly in the copyright field. i believe the european union should be a market place for all, and particularly for consumers and smes… (the president cut off the speaker)
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank frédérique ries for a very good job. there has been a good atmosphere of cooperation to find the best solution during this negotiation. gluten intolerant people can feel safe with this new solution. it is more logical that this be part of the regular food information. even those who are lactose intolerant will be able to get accurate and good information, and the countries with support schemes will not be affected by this. i am also pleased that we are limiting the advertising of infant milk and that we are also continuing up to the age of three, so that we do not have a frivolous advertising of this milk. i am also pleased that nano is being treated in the way it should be, namely that we are finding out the consequences of nano-specific properties so that we do not get the wrong effects from unknowingly adding nano. however, i am very disappointed with the council of ministers and with the fact that it is fighting tooth and nail to prevent the ban on the most dangerous pesticides we know of in baby food and baby milk! it is incomprehensible to me that any government would go into an election campaign and say: i'm fighting to keep using the most dangerous poisons on earth in our baby food! i thank the commission for taking responsibility for this matter and making the declaration. i'm gonna be laying in wait like a leech so that this is now urgently evaluated and made sure that our children are not exposed to these most dangerous substances on earth in their food as their first contact with reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a new agenda for eu consumer policy. it is important that we create a modern consumer policy, which enables consumers to make free and informed choices based on accurate and comprehensible information. i therefore welcome the fact that the report stresses the importance of strengthening consumer knowledge and empowerment and not dominating their decisions. at the same time, it is important to improve product safety so that consumers are not exposed to dangerous products. i also welcome the fact that alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are to be made more accessible. a well-functioning internal market, with free movement and legal certainty both offline and online, is a win-win for consumers and businesses alike.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that we have succeeded in establishing new common rules on baby food, special diets and low-calorie foods. it is very important that we have made it easier for both vulnerable consumers and businesses to play by clear rules. parents of young children, those with food intolerances, those with special dietary needs should have more opportunities to make a healthy, informed, conscious choice. i am also pleased that my proposals for better protection of gluten and lactose intolerance have been heard. it is important to provide adequate protection for those who suffer from intolerance in the future. unfortunately, gluten and lactose intolerance have become a reality for more and more people, both in sweden and in the rest of europe. the most important thing is that the new labelling rules should not mislead consumers and that we can really fight food fraud better.
in writing. - i have voted on the report. the type of subsidised housing (social housing) that the report deals with has contributed to a highly segregated housing in many of the eu member states. nor is it a long-term solution to the housing crisis. the report is about emergency aid, not about housing as a basic social right. what the eu needs is a new economic policy that focuses on growth and investment. such policies create new housing and new jobs. it is the job of society to build affordable housing for all and to create opportunities for good and affordable housing, not segregation. it is on the basis of such reasoning that i choose to abstain.
in writing. - in the vote on the report on subsidised housing in the eu, we voted in favour because we support the wording of the report that 'having somewhere to live is a fundamental right'. the report takes account of the treaty of lisbon (tfeu), in particular article 3 (3). there's too few housing being built. today, the major population growth is occurring in cities and other urban areas. subsidising housing construction is not desirable, but it is necessary to have affordable housing. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, the forms of subsidised housing are to be determined by the member states. it is important to stress that housing policy is not a european issue, but a matter for the member states to decide. subsidising housing is a means of increasing construction, but it is also important to increase competition, and the right of municipalities to set local building requirements is limited. building standards should be revised to allow for smaller dwellings with a slightly simpler standard. solutions that reduce the cost of building accessible should be pursued. in order to reduce the planning times for construction projects, the appeal process shall be simplified.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? yes, we are making history today. the work on the common asylum package began in 1999 and now, 14 years later, it is becoming a reality. it has been a long road, not always an easy one, and at times this day has felt very, very far away. but because all of us who have worked together towards this goal have been driven by the same shared conviction that our approach to refugees must be improved, we have now reached the goal. the asylum package has become a reality and a creation of which we all have reason to be proud. with the new laws we are adopting, we are creating a common regulatory framework and setting a minimum level to which the member states now have to comply. the long process has resulted in many compromises between our institutions. i am both pleased and proud that the new rules are much clearer, more humane and much more legal for asylum seekers and also clear for the member states. i want to thank everyone who has worked together for a good collaboration. at times, we've spent more time with each other than with our families. i would like to thank the council, the six presidencies with which i have worked, all the experts, assistants and officials. we are now in the final stage, and there are now clear, clear deadlines for the different steps in an asylum process and a clear division of responsibility between member states, also in cases where a person is to be transferred between countries. this prevents protracted proceedings and people from being in legal limbo when no one is responsible for investigating their case. other major improvements include the right to information, the right to legal representation, the right to appeal, the limited possibility of locking people up and significantly improved conditions for unaccompanied refugee children. as the rapporteur of the parliament on the new dublin iii regulation, i would like to mention in particular some progress in my report and the very new paragraph which states that transfers may not be made to other member states if the person is at risk of inhuman or degrading treatment. if there are grounds for suspecting this, the application for asylum or the asylum examination shall be made in the country where the person is present. furthermore, it creates an expanded possibility for unaccompanied children to be reunited not only with parents but also with siblings, grandparents, aunts and uncles who are legally in one of our member states. we have also set up an early warning mechanism to monitor how member states implement the legislation. the asylum office in malta will, together with the commission, play a key role. the aim is clearly to detect problems in the asylum systems of the countries at an early stage. the mechanism is designed to prevent more countries from collapsing. the final point in the negotiations was where to process the asylum application of the unaccompanied refugee child. the dublin ii regulation has not been clear on this point. we wanted to clarify with the commission that unaccompanied children should not be subject to transfer, but should have their asylum applications processed in the country where they are. the council did not want to agree to this. that is why we are making a declaration which will be published tomorrow together with the dublin iii regulation, with a reference to a case before the court of justice of the european union on the asylum procedure for unaccompanied minors, to which the commission will return with a modification of this article in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice delivered on thursday, 6 june, and which states very clearly that unaccompanied refugee children should not be subjected to transfers but treated in the country where the child is present. i'll end where i started: we're making history, we all have a reason to thank each other and be proud!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the asylum package, but i'm not jumping for joy and waving flags. there are still major shortcomings. one of the main ones is that the possibility of locking up asylum seekers remains. in large parts of the union, asylum seekers are being treated as prisoners and locked up in a system of lock-downs in violation of international law. that we couldn't change this more is tragic. in the dublin regulation we have fought to stop the transfer of unaccompanied minors between member states. the council refused to agree to this but must now comply with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union. today's review also does nothing about the question of the skewed distribution of responsibility for asylum seekers. a large number of member states are watching, while a minority are accepting almost all applications. if these member states took greater responsibility, the situation of refugees would be considerably improved and the eu as a whole could help more people on the move. finally, the possibilities for legally entering the eu and applying for asylum must also be much improved. we have a lot of work to do.
mr president, i also welcome very much the new asylum package we have all worked for. the common rules, minimum standards and procedures in the european union are win-win for all, for the north and for the south. i would particularly like to welcome the progress and improvements for unaccompanied minors. solidarity has to be european, and we have instruments for it and it is very important. but some countries need to build a national capacity to stand up for our values and for the human rights that asylum seekers deserve. common rules will give legal certainty, consistency and better conditions for asylum seekers. but a country like sweden ranks number three in those receiving asylum seekers; 90% of asylum seekers are coming to nine countries. we need to have wider burden-sharing – and it is not a burden, my friends, i do not like to use the word ‘burden’. it is time to stop talking about burden-sharing and start talking about responsibility-sharing, and solidarity goes with responsibility. it is time to stop considering asylum seekers that flee war and conflict and torture and persecution as a burden. they are human beings in need of protection and we have to live up to this. in sweden we want to continue to live up to it, but we need others also to bear their responsibility.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? by building this common asylum system now, we can give more people a proper protection. together, we can help more people and help better. today, as we know, only a few countries receive almost all those seeking asylum in the eu. we must now work under the banner of 'shared responsibility, mutual trust and increased solidarity'. it's been a long road, as we said before, but the hardest part is ahead. the legal framework is in place. it is now up to us to implement this framework, these laws, correctly. it's very important. in the future, it will no doubt be necessary to review and revise the rules repeatedly. our contribution, this common asylum package, is crucial for a sound and coherent asylum policy in the eu. i would like to say a little more personally that we have managed to create this now in the midst of an economic crisis, which is what we failed to do in 1999 and since then when the economies were booming, and that this shows that the eu is bigger than its own reputation, more active than the ideas about the eu, and that the union has every reason to be proud of the way in which we now meet those who, for various reasons, are forced to flee their countries to seek refuge here in our member states. we have every reason today to be humble in our gratitude and pride in taking our share of responsibility for some of the suffering in the world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, let me thank commissioner barnier and the two rapporteurs for the flexibility and sensitivity they have shown during the work process. the legislation we are about to adopt represents the hope that billions of dollars of commodity industry revenue can be shared by ordinary people in developing countries, instead of falling into the pockets of corrupt leaders, and the hope that transparency and accountability can replace corruption and nepotism. similar rules have been adopted in the united states. perhaps this will be the beginning of good international standards. this legislative package is also a testament to successful lobbying. it is not a question of how much money you have, but of what arguments you have and with what fervour and credibility you present those arguments. i myself remember with joy and gratitude a meeting i had with bishop munga of tanzania on this subject. it was a meeting marked by respect and care for the most vulnerable, namely people in developing countries who have suffered because we have not had transparency in our processes when european companies have acted in developing countries in particular. i am very happy and think we should all be proud if this is now adopted. it will serve as a model for similar reports in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we know that some european companies are behaving badly, particularly in the poor part of the world. they promote corruption, engage in tax evasion, or manage natural resources irresponsibly. it is therefore positive that the new rules on country-by-country reporting are now in place. the increased transparency requirements will force companies with questionable activities to do better. at the same time, the fact that the rules only apply to the oil, gas, mining and forestry sectors is a clear shortcoming. the problem is not confined to a few industries, but is found in most places. it is therefore important to go directly further and extend the rules to cover all sectors. the rules should be made comprehensive. we in parliament should be very active in pushing that process forward. of course, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and all those who have worked on this.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, may i first of all thank mr sánchez presedo for his work on the competition report for 2011. competition policy and its relationship to the overall competitiveness of our member states, and the union, is of fundamental importance. that is why i welcome very much that this report that we are discussing today will tomorrow mean that we decide on a number of important messages in regard to increasing competition in sectors of our economies where the level of competition is insufficient today. first there is a clear message on the importance of making sure that competition policy furthers the interests of consumers and new entrants, rather than companies that are already established enterprises. that is important. secondly, the call for more competition among providers of services of general economic and social interest: here we are dealing with some of the most important services in our societies and it is important that consumers, citizens, can make a choice and that they can get the best of the best possible. this is crucial because, if we want to make these services more efficient and consumer-oriented, we must secure the plurality and ever ongoing development of these services. thirdly and finally, today too many services are exempted from scrutiny by the competition authorities, not least in relation to services of general economic and social interest. it is important that the commission always takes an overall perspective on how to further these interests, because what is important in one area is important in another area as well. when consumers can benefit from competition in one sector of our economy, they can also do so in another sector. this is a core issue of the european union, not only for economic purposes but also for opportunities for new thinking, new ideas in the development of our europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the commission's decision to put forward a proposal for collective redress, so that individual citizens and businesses can enforce their rights under eu law when they have been infringed. i am a strong advocate of a european type of group action and welcome this first important step. this is necessary for the functioning of the internal market to strengthen consumer interests. i would have liked to have seen a common european law. we know that consumers and small businesses are afraid to initiate proceedings because of concerns about lengthy procedures and, above all, high costs. it is very important that the commission now pays particular attention to the energy sector. the shale gas revolution in the us is threatening european competitiveness. the eu needs a common energy market, which is efficient, flexible and competitive. we need it to cope with the competitive and difficult energy market of the future.
mr president, this is just to say that i thought my name would be among the signatures on this resolution. i would like to have it added there, please.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of the 2014 calendar and the fact that we will continue to have sessions in brussels. i voted against the amendment which sought to remove the april, october and november partsessions in brussels and to have only partsessions in strasbourg. i believe that the amendment would contribute to the removal of the european parliament from brussels and thus weaken the democratic control of its members and their ability to act fully as a co-decision-making institution, as provided for in the lisbon treaty. i will continue to actively campaign for a single seat for the european parliament in brussels and put an end to the moving carousel!
in writing. − i voted in favour of the directive laying down common standards for the reception conditions of asylum seekers. the new rules will provide higher and more harmonised standards of living for applicants of international protection across the eu, irrespective of which member state in which the application was made. i am particularly happy about the new rules concerning the special reception needs for vulnerable persons such unaccompanied minors and victims of torture. this new directive, together with the other instruments of the asylum package, is an historic step forward to increase the protection of asylum seekers and refugees in europe and to provide consistency, legal certainty and humanity dignity across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the revision of the dublin regulation, because in its new form the mechanism to determine which member state is responsible for an asylum application will be more effective and simplified. moreover, the new rules will increase the protection of asylum seekers and provide for better legal certainty and human dignity. i think that the new early warning mechanism introduced in the revision will help to prevent crisis situations and assist member states by better using the instruments that we already have. the new article 3 that refers to a risk of serious violation of the fundamental rights of the person concerned is also important for speeding up decisions, whereas before there was the need to wait for a court ruling to stop a transfer. this regulation, together with the other instruments of the asylum package, is an historic step forward that will increase the protection of asylum seekers in europe and allow better responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. − i am glad that we have adopted today new common rules on asylum procedures in the eu. there are still too many differences in the national asylum systems across europe today and we need common rules to ensure more consistency and legal certainty. the new procedure directive simplifies and harmonises definitions and time limits, reducing the divergences and margins of error in the interpretation by member states. i supported in particular the improvements achieved for unaccompanied minors. the best interest of the child is the first priority throughout the whole package. this directive, together with the other instruments of the asylum package, is an historic step forward that will increase the protection of asylum-seekers in europe and allow a better responsibility-sharing among member states.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the eu's neoliberal austerity policies have created mass unemployment and growing poverty. what the eu needs is not charitable funds for the poor, but a new economic policy that creates jobs and welfare. i have voted against the report on this basis.
in writing. - we have today voted to abstain in the final vote on the report on the fund for european aid to the most deprived. we want to show all our solidarity with the people who are the most disadvantaged, and we are well aware that this group of people has increased in the wake of the economic crisis. however, there are various ways in which these people can be helped. we therefore voted to make this fund voluntary for the member states to use (amendment 73, part 2). however, that line was not supported in plenary, and we decided to abstain. several member states, including sweden, have national programmes to assist the most disadvantaged. in a country like sweden, the limited esf resources should be used for their intended purpose (integration, gender equality and employability). a country like sweden does not need a contribution from the fund either. it would be a pity to have to spend money that could be better used in other member states. we believe that this is a matter for the member states to take care of themselves, but we believe that there should be a fund at eu level which can be used by those countries which so wish.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new eurodac regulation because i believe that it is important to give law enforcement authorities the possibility of accessing the eurodac database in order to fight serious crime and terrorism. of course we need to ensure strict safeguards for the people concerned and to avoid abuse. the access will be only allowed under strictly limited circumstances. it will not be a general direct access to the database, but only on a ‘hit or not’ basis and as a last resort. it will be requested only in specific cases where there is a crime scene. strict rules on data protection are also provided in particular in relation to the storage period of data. i think that in the new regulation we succeeded in finding the right balance.
in writing. - i voted against the macovei report on the establishment of eurodac for the comparison of fingerprints. the report, and the outcome of the tripartite negotiations, seems to assume that all asylum seekers are potential terrorists and criminals. the proposal to store all fingerprints for three years, including those of refugees who have been granted asylum, is one example. it's a gross violation of privacy. the compromise between the european parliament and the council leads to a deterioration of the standard that has been in force. the other three reports on asylum (by guillaume, wikström and hidalgo) are to be adopted on the basis of the 'approval without vote' principle. i would just like to emphasize that i would have voted against these reports, partly because they further weaken asylum policy and partly because i do not believe that asylum policy should be supranational.
mr president, freedom of movement is a cornerstone of europe, and is worth standing up for. today, with the agreement on schengen governance, we have made it possible to have more transparent, more efficient and stronger cooperation within schengen. 420 million citizens will continue to enjoy the right to move freely without passport control, but at the same time they will have more safety and protection within the schengen area. the key progress made is in moving towards the community method; the approach will be more european and less intergovernmental. there will be a possibility to reintroduce border controls but, as now, only on a temporary, exceptional and last-resort basis. i think that it is important that the criteria for border controls based on increases in migration flows should not be accepted, because that has nothing to do with national security. mr president, today we are sending a message to those who wanted to roll back europe: that we stand firm for freedom of movement, as a right of our citizens that we do not intend to endanger.
in writing. - the left party has opposed the schengen agreement from the outset, both on the basis of our anti-federalist stance and our consistent defence of human rights. the schengen system has contributed greatly to the building of walls around the eu and the creation of a fortress europe. the consequence has been that thousands of refugees have died trying to escape to the eu. the flows of refugees are caused by war and deep economic inequalities in the world, which the eu also helps to create. in line with this reasoning of principle, i am voting against this report.
in writing. - the left party has opposed the schengen agreement from the outset, both on the basis of our anti-federalist stance and our consistent defence of human rights. the schengen system has contributed greatly to the building of walls around the eu and the creation of a fortress europe. the consequence has been that thousands of refugees have died trying to escape to the eu. the flows of refugees are caused by war and deep economic inequalities in the world, which the eu also helps to create. in line with this reasoning of principle, i am voting against this report.
in writing. - we voted today in strasbourg for a resolution on european action to combat youth unemployment. we would point out that it is the member states which are responsible for formulating labour market policy. we also want to emphasize that there are parts of the resolution that we oppose. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we would point out that it is the member states which are responsible for formulating labour market policy. we also want to emphasize that there are parts of the resolution that we oppose. we do not support the proposal to establish a common level of unemployment benefit in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint resolution on public access to documents because i believe it is time to break the deadlock on the negotiations on the revision of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on the public access to documents. all the european institutions need to join forces to adopt this revision as soon as possible. citizens have the right to know how we take decisions in the european institutions. we should be open about our work here and let citizens feel that they are part of the decision-making process and that we really represent them. i wanted to give them a clear message today by voting in favour of this resolution, that we hear their concerns and we want to make the european institutions more accessible for them.
vice-president of the commission/high representative. − madam president, i have said many times in this house that human rights should be the silver thread that runs through the statements and actions of the european union. over the last twelve months, thanks in no small part to stavros lambrinidis, who is sitting beside me, and the external action service team led by mara marinaki, we have made significant reforms in our approach, our initiatives and our actions on human rights. last year we adopted our strategic framework and action plan on human rights and democracy, agreed unanimously by member states and supported by this parliament through its high-level contact group on human rights. today we have a human rights focal point officer in every eu delegation, as well as a brussels-based working group in the council. we have fully developed human rights country strategies and a much stronger annual report, which allows parliament and civil society to measure our performance against our commitments. the substantial restructuring of the report makes it a much more effective tool for our ongoing work and, specifically, it responds to the request of parliament by following the structure of the action plan and highlighting concrete achievements and challenges. the report also demonstrates the steps we have taken to increase our interinstitutional cooperation and our policy coherence, visibility and effectiveness across our work. we have made significant progress in these areas. i want like to highlight a few things. first of all, the appointment of the first eu special representative for human rights, under your guidance and my mandate. i would like to pay tribute to his energy, commitment and determination. he has worked with over a hundred ministers and ambassadors across the world and worked closely with you and with teams on the ground to raise the profile of human rights. he has also worked closely with civil society in europe and in other countries, and helped to secure really important changes. the protection of ngos and human rights defenders is a core priority for both stavros and for me. he is actively engaged with over 150 international and local ngos from 30 countries to safeguard their space to function freely and to promote our support. i want to thank him most warmly and look forward to many more achievements in the future. stavros knows better than anyone that the support that we give is not just financial, but also political, legal and diplomatic. in that regard i would like to underline how tremendously important parliament’s sakharov prize is. there is no question that 2012 was a challenging year for civil society in so many countries. there is a worrying trend that parliamentarians here have spotted to limit the space – through legislation, court action and restrictions – of civil society, particularly with regard to foreign funding. i believe that safeguarding the work of civil society is fundamental to the work of the european union. i believe that safeguarding freedom of association and peaceful assembly has to stay at the top of our agenda. i have expressed our concerns about these developments in statements, but also in person. i will continue to do so and, with the support and help of stavros and the work of our delegations, we will continue to try to ensure that civil society is given the space its needs and that governments – old, new, transitional or permanent – understand that this is fundamental to the perception of them and fundamental to the kind of society they wish to create. ngos and civil society make governments and politicians uncomfortable. that exactly is what they are supposed to do: to push the boundaries, to watch over the way governments work and to get under their skin. in 2012 we also saw the great difficulty faced by many who seek to practice their faith and have the freedom of their belief, or none. we make it clear this is an inalienable human right and an essential pillar of society. it is an integral part of our political dialogue with third countries. i have spoken out to condemn religious intolerance and discrimination, whether in egypt, nigeria, iran, iraq, libya, mali, pakistan, tunisia or elsewhere. be in no doubt that our aim in speaking is to achieve results. we know, for example, that the statements made in tripoli contributed to the release of egyptian christians held in libya. the importance of this issue is why we wanted our new guidelines and why we have consulted widely to make sure that they have a strong and clear content. i am extremely grateful again to the parliament’s subcommittee on human rights for their valuable input. i very much welcome the andrikienė report. i trust that many of the recommendations will be reflected in the final version of the guidelines, which will be adopted by the foreign affairs council on 24 june. i have also been extremely worried about the discrimination in some countries based on sexual orientation or gender identity. as you know, we have contributed to multilateral efforts, especially in the un, as well as at regional and bilateral level. here too, we have developed practical eu guidelines to be adopted this month by the council, which should reinforce the work of the european union. we have raised our deep concerns with uganda and cameroon about proposed parliamentary bills further criminalising homosexuality. in malawi we have spoken out against the prison sentences for gay couples and against recent events in nigeria. we use our regular dialogues to raise this discrimination and to promote tolerance, supporting campaigns in russia, croatia, turkey, montenegro and brazil to support local and international ngos in campaigns against discrimination. i thank this house for your input. if i may single out michael cashman, i will do so for his tireless efforts. when we look at our changing world, i also continue to be concerned about what is happening to women and girls. honourable members in this house know that no society can function well and no economy do as well as it should without the input of the rich talent and ability of half its population – women and girls. i was really pleased that we saw the successful adoption of conclusions at the recent 57th session of the un commission on the status of women. but let me say that this was not easy. some countries tried to water down the unconditional condemnation of violence against women through appeals to domestic traditions, laws and cultures. it was the tireless work of our eu delegations that was largely responsible for the defeat of those attempts. we are united in our belief that there are no acceptable circumstances for violence against women and no place where the failure to allow girls to be educated is acceptable. no society can hold its head up where women are forced to keep their heads down. so we continue our strong engagement in the implementation of security council resolution 1325, with support to the tune of eur 200 million a year for the development and implementation of national action plans, funding for ngos and training. we strengthened our commitment further with a memorandum of understanding with un women that forms the basis of a partnership to help us make progress in our international commitments. i am so grateful for parliament’s strong support in this area. i must mention too the focus on freedom of the press and media in the report by ms schaake and welcome it very much. the increased violence against journalists and restrictions on press freedom in many countries, including our neighbours, must be challenged. we condemn attacks on journalists and bloggers and are developing our own guidelines to use in our work in delegations and in our teams in brussels. the commission is already implementing a pilot project, mandated by the european parliament, on a european centre for press and media freedom. the territorial scope will now cover the eu 27, croatia and candidate countries. we also continue with our campaign against the death penalty. i congratulate all those involved in the extensive lobbying which played a pivotal role in the success of the un general assembly 67 resolution. it was adopted with an unprecedented 111 votes in favour and a record 91 sponsors. we should rightly take some of the credit for that. our revised guidelines further refine all aspects of our policy and pull together all of our available diplomatic action. during 2012 and the first part of this year, i issued 54 statements on the death penalty: on breaches of existing moratoriums in india, pakistan, indonesia, taiwan, japan and gambia, on persistent executions in iran, saudi arabia and china and on violations of minimum standards in the united states, malaysia and singapore. during the same period i instructed our delegations to carry out 30 démarches reiterating our position and calling on authorities to refrain from executions. we will continue to push and press for universal abolition. there are new challenges and existing challenges: supporting countries going through transitions, helping them to refrain from restricting human rights and to see that it was for those rights that people have fought and tragically died, working with countries who describe themselves as ‘developing’ so that they develop the right approach to human rights, and, most of all, reminding everyone that for human rights to apply to them, there is only one criterion, which is to be human.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. freedom of the media is one of the most important preconditions for democracy. that is why undemocratic states are so strongly opposed to free speech. that's why journalists who ask questions, who question and who expose regimes around the world are still being jailed and murdered today. the rapporteur mentioned in his speech a number of countries which are violating the freedom of the media. i can add one more country: eritrea. dawit isaak, a journalist from my own country, has been imprisoned in eritrea for 12 years now. i am glad that we were able to agree across party and national boundaries on our strong support for media freedom in third countries. i am also pleased that we are also mentioning digital and social media in the report for the first time. bloggers around the world have become as much of a threat to regimes as traditional media. they are feared by authoritarian regimes and persecuted to the same extent as journalists. bloggers, but also various sectors of civil society, have recently contributed to significant political, social and economic changes. that is why they deserve our support and protection. i am also glad that we are making clear demands on those countries that want a relationship with the eu, whether they are candidate countries or countries that want to have different agreements with the eu. we demand that they respect the freedom of the media. at the same time, we also demand that the eu be a leader in the protection of journalists and media freedom globally. having said all that, i would like to point out that there are parts of the report which also deal with media freedom within the eu, even though there is a parallel report on media freedom within the eu and even though our report is drawn up by the committee on foreign affairs and, therefore, by definition, is to deal with the situation in third countries. i would like to emphasize that i personally and my political group have always been strong advocates and fighters for media freedom, but we do not want to politicize it. this is a matter that deserves our full attention and our full support, respect and protection for the brave people who risk their lives to ensure that all citizens have the same rights that we exercise here today in this house.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadows and my colleagues from the other committees for the collaboration that we have had on this file. i was happy about many things in the discussions, particularly on the open formats, which were very encouraging and give me some hope for the future. but that said, the commission proposal originally had other aims as well, most of which we did not agree upon, and we did not reach any particular conclusions either. i am afraid that we are now rushing ahead with an agreement for the sake of having an agreement, rather than responsibly and consistently legislating to improve the lives of european citizens. we already have many open data projects in the member states and local authorities. we have heard some data about their successes, but success at the member state level does not necessarily mean that we need an eu law. it is better for us to think this over in another reading, rather than pushing ahead for the sake of pushing ahead. eu citizens’ confidence in our institution relies upon them being able to know that we know when we have a goal and a purpose to make their lives better. the greens/efa and i therefore propose that we reject this trialogue outcome with the council and that we go to a second reading and think this over again. this will not harm the open data project already under way at the member state level, and it would be beneficial for everyone if we took the time to think about what we actually want.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, let me thank our colleague, filip kaczmarek, for an excellent report. there is no doubt that the mdgs have been of great importance to world developments over the past 12 years. the objectives have mobilised, united and inspired both aid recipients and developing countries and they have delivered. it is indeed encouraging to see the success of the programme in several areas. i think what was said earlier here is very important, namely that these successes should be taken forward. there are still a great many people who imagine that this kind of investment is not doing any good and that poverty is almost constant in the world. it's not like that! that message of good news should, to the extent we can, be trumpeted. a total of 600 million people have been lifted out of poverty in the last 12 years. 600 million people! a record number of children are also entering primary school, and now girls and boys are entering primary school in equal numbers. maternal and infant mortality has decreased. targeted investments have been made to combat what might be called public diseases, such as hiv, malaria, and aids, and millions of lives have been saved. we should not underestimate the value of these specifically formulated mdgs as a stimulus and an opportunity to measure progress. i believe that they have been and continue to be of very great value as well. as we look ahead, it is important that we do not stop our discussions at vague wishes or general guidelines for future development work, but that we once again focus on formulating clear objectives of what we want and can achieve together. in new york, kaczmarek's report will be of great use.
in writing. − the epp group supports freedom of press and media in the world, and has voted in favour of the report. the epp group believes, however, that the report should focus on the situation outside the eu, since it is a report that has been drafted within the committee on foreign affairs. therefore paragraph 29 and paragraph 30 were not supported by the group during the vote in committee. paragraph 29 reads ‘notes with concern that in recent years some media, notably in the eu, have come under scrutiny themselves for unethical and allegedly illegal behaviour; considers that the eu can only lead by example if it addresses these issues within its own borders’. paragraph 30 reads ‘encourages the commission to continue to closely monitor the independence of the press and media in the member states’. these paragraphs go beyond the scope of the report. the epp group also voted against the following part of paragraph 8 in committee: ‘considers the trend of concentrated media ownership in large conglomerates to be a threat to media freedom and pluralism, especially with digitisation occurring in parallel’. the epp group is not in favour of drawing these kinds of conclusions, which are questionable and speculative.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. imagine a mob mocking you, taunting you, destroying your house just because of who you were born to or what god you believe in. then imagine that you call the police for help and the police side with the mob, that you have to flee, and that when you do, you will find no safe haven either. this is the reality today for thousands - yes, even hundreds of thousands - of rohingya. and what do we do? we stand here and watch and pass our resolutions. earlier this week, we voted to increase military leadership capacity and to increase the militarization of the foreign service. what good is that to us? no one at all! it is time to take the promises of 1999 seriously and build up the eu's civilian peace mechanisms. we need a task force of mediators, engineers, lawyers, tax experts, bureaucrats, who can build communities, not military men who can bomb communities. it's not going to help this group of people either. i expect the commission to take the initiative now to build up the civilian peacekeeping force, which can help in conflicts and prevent conflicts before they escalate into war. that is where the eu can make a difference. in the meantime, we will make the demands on the burmese president as set out in our resolution. what good is his promise to release all political prisoners? nothing is happening.
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! the agreement on the long-term budget is not a good agreement, but it is the best possible one at this stage. we have been criticised a lot, not least by the swedish government, for not having immediately agreed to the council's cow trade in february. but it was really important that we stood up, despite the fact that we were under this very heavy pressure. what, then, have we achieved by continuing to negotiate? we have, in fact, in the next few years, multiplied the joint effort to tackle youth unemployment. we have also found a solution to fill the budget for the years to come. we have had an early postponement of investment in research and small businesses, among other things, which would otherwise have been subject to substantial cuts in the first few years, contrary to the council's promises. we have passed the amending budget which will enable the eu to get out of its payment crisis. we have got a much more flexible budget and, not least, a mandatory mid-term review to develop this long-term budget in a more offensive direction when the crisis is hopefully over. unfortunately, this conflictual process, not least within the council, has revealed a number of shortcomings in the way the eu works. in times of economic crisis, solidarity is weakened. the member states are primarily concerned with their own short-term national interests, such as their own levy. but if the member states do not stand up for what is common, the eu will be weakened and a weak eu is the last thing we need. it is particularly worrying that the member states have tried in every way to reduce the influence of the european parliament in favour of closed-door agreements. we must oppose this, because it is a serious threat to openness and democracy in the eu.
in writing. − harmonised rules on vehicle inspections both increase road safety and reduce the negative environmental impact of road traffic. technology is advancing rapidly. this is reflected in the report, but we do not like the commission's proposal to include two- and three-wheelers. the proposal is based on a poorly substantiated study and therefore we do not think that these proposals should be included in this report. the aim of the proposals can be better achieved at national level. today it is already possible for each country to decide on the compulsory inspection of, for example, motorcycles. mc accidents are mainly due to driver error, road environmental deficiencies or inattentive road users, not technical errors. we want the commission to carry out a better and more comprehensive study on two- and three-wheelers, comparing accident statistics between countries with and without inspection to get a clearer picture of the situation.
in writing. - i voted against the dorfmann report on certain types of overall state aid. although the report aims to simplify the management of grants and subsidies by member states and public authorities, it is nevertheless directly linked to article 107 (1) of the treaty on european union, which prohibits state aid when it is considered incompatible with the internal market. it is a ban which the left party opposes because there are many situations and circumstances in a country's economy where state aid may be necessary for the good of society and its citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you, commissioner and sven giegold. ucits is a huge success. we should encourage savings in the form of funds, as this contributes to investment in european companies. therefore, it is particularly important that ucits funds are safe and secure to invest in. i therefore welcome the proposals to regulate the activities of depositaries in a more harmonised way and to strengthen supervision. the savings - my savings and your savings - will be in safe custody. the proposals strengthen consumer protection and level the playing field. of course, the fees paid by the fund investor for managing the fund must be reasonable and fair. of course, there must be full transparency and openness as to the content and extent of the charges. i have one request, however, to sven giegold: let's not let the discussion of bonuses and fees make it so difficult that we don't finish and have a proposal before the end of this term. i think we owe it to the fund savers in europe to get it right.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you to arlene mccarthy. her report and liikanen's report contribute to a debate on how to create a sound banking system in europe. after the financial crisis, the eu has done a lot, not least you, michel barnier, to tighten up the rules and improve the supervision of european banks. we must now implement the eu rules we have developed over the last few years before taking further steps. we need to see the effects of higher capital requirements, rules for banks in crisis and the banking union before we implement new extensive and potentially costly eu rules and rules whose effects we actually don't really know. in many cases, eu rules will be stricter than those of other g20 countries. we must be careful not to undermine the european banking model where normal banking and securities trading are under one roof. let us not risk creating further uncertainty about the legal conditions for banking in europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, a year and a half ago, the commission came forward with a proposal for a decision on serious cross-border threats to health. today we stand on the verge of reaching agreement at first reading. the european parliament, the commission, and the council – under the danish, cyprus and irish presidencies – have all worked very hard to reach such an agreement. the compromise text before us today represents a balanced approach, which reflects the concerns of all institutions. i would like to thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, in particular you, mr pargneaux. as rapporteur, you facilitated the discussions between the institutions, and it is thanks to your personal commitment that we have managed to reach a strong compromise. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their input into the adoption of this important piece of legislation. i am pleased that the european parliament supported the objectives of the commission proposal and strengthened it further in important areas, such as the need for consistent information across the eu to our citizens and to healthcare professionals; the independence of the experts who carry out risk assessments; and the link between the veterinary sector and the health sector in handling cross-border threats. the commission stands fully behind this agreement and is pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. the draft decision on the table today is based on lessons learnt from past health crises – such as the 2009 h1n1 pandemic, and the 2011 outbreak of e. coli. these cases have shown that europe needs enhanced collaboration to prepare for such crises, and to address them at eu level. this is why the commission identified three major objectives in its proposal on serious cross-border health threats. first, to strengthen preparedness planning in the light of lessons learnt from past experiences. second, to improve risk assessment and management to address all kinds of cross-border health threats; and third, to enhance the coordination of the response at eu level by providing a solid mandate to the health security committee. i believe the decision, as negotiated, fulfils these three aspirations. let me expand a little. first, the decision will strengthen preparedness planning capacity at eu level by reinforcing coordination and sharing of best practice and information on national preparedness activities. the aim here is to ensure that member states are adequately prepared to face a crisis, and to reduce the impact of such a crisis on people’s health and on the functioning of society as a whole. one of the key achievements of the decision is that it establishes the legal basis for the coordination of joint procurement of medicines needed to respond to a crisis. we will start with the joint procurement of pandemic vaccines: the member states who participate in this process, on a voluntary basis, will be better prepared for a future pandemic, and will be able to provide their citizens with vaccines under better conditions than in the past. second, the decision provides for risk assessments on the impact of chemical and environmental threats on people’s health. when no eu agency is suitable to carry out such a risk assessment, the commission now has a clear mandate to provide it. the decision further strengthens the eu position in case of any health emergency, including pandemics. for the first time, the eu can declare an emergency situation within its territory – without waiting for an international emergency to be declared – so as to trigger an accelerated provision of vaccines and medicines. finally, the decision gives the health security committee a solid legal footing. in this committee, member states inform and consult each other to coordinate their responses to cross-border health threats and their communication to the public and to healthcare professionals. the current outbreaks of influenza h7n9 and of the novel coronavirus highlight once more the need for national authorities to exchange information, analyse the risk to citizens, prepare for a possible crisis and coordinate their response. the compromise before us represents a comprehensive and coherent legal framework addressing serious cross-border health threats for the greater safety of european citizens. before i close, allow me to read a statement on behalf of the commission, which has already been deposited with parliament’s secretariat: ‘where a risk assessment concerning a serious cross-border threat to health falls outside the mandates of the agencies of the union, the commission undertakes obtaining such a risk assessment by means of expert groups. the commission will, as a priority, have recourse to the scientific committees established by commission decision 2008/721/ec of 5 september 2008 setting up an advisory structure of scientific committees and experts in the field of consumer safety, public health and the environment and repealing decision 2004/210/ec. ‘ where the specific expertise needed is not immediately available in the advisory structures of scientific committees and where the urgency so requires, the commission will inform without delay the member states and relevant scientific bodies about the particular expertise needed to help identify the experts it is looking for. the commission will then appoint experts to contribute to the risk assessment needed. ‘the commission will ensure the independence of the experts providing this assessment, in accordance with its established internal rules.’ the adoption of this decision is an important milestone for strengthening health security in the european union. this agreement will improve citizens’ safety and we should all give it our wholehearted support.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in recent years, we have become accustomed to alarms about new pandemics, such as avian influenza, swine influenza and, most recently, a new, mutated form of avian influenza. all we know is that sooner or later it's gonna happen to us. it is therefore very important that we are prepared when it happens, and that the countries of europe know what is required and are able to coordinate their efforts. that is why i believe that the legislation we are about to adopt is particularly urgent and that we are deepening our cooperation and preparedness against cross-border health threats. this legislation does indeed do that. it strengthens europe's capacity to deal with cross-border health threats. we are strengthening the health committees and the coordination of these committees in the member states. we extend the mandate of the european centre for disease prevention to include crossborder health threats. we are tightening the requirements for member states to establish adequate contingency plans. last but not least, we are also expanding the possibility of using joint procurement to purchase vaccines. i would like to say that i would have liked to see the commission go further, to have had an additional opportunity to intervene when member states are not able to deal with crossborder health threats. because if there is ever a time when we really need the eu, it is when we have cross-border problems. there is no more serious cross-border problem than when we actually have pandemics and health threats that risk crossing borders.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by greeting you, madam president, on behalf of the alde group, and welcome you back to this parliament, and to congratulate and welcome the first lithuanian presidency. we look forward to this very much. as the president said in a speech earlier: the eu is first and foremost a union based on common values and values of the equal value of all people the principle of non-discrimination. as the founding fathers once said, the eu was not created to guarantee the rights of nations but to guarantee the fundamental rights of every human being. it is therefore sad for us as liberals to note that the lithuanian parliament is considering laws that discriminate against people belonging to the gay, bi and transsexual minorities. a symbol of this is, of course, the much-discussed pride parade in vilnius. i urge you to put this right now and to allow baltic pride to be held on the main street of vilnius where all the other important parades and demonstrations have taken place. i would also like to mention a number of other important issues besides these basic human rights. it is also important that we achieve results on important proposals which also deal with values and values in relation to our union and the labour immigration we need. we will need millions of people in the next 20 to 30 years, particularly in terms of labour migration. i am now the rapporteur for the new directive on students and researchers from third countries. it has been difficult for the commission to get the directives that have come before, but now it is important that we realise that we are doing everything we can to take up the competition to bring people into the eu. it is about students, researchers and experts - we will need them. i hope that the council, under your leadership, will be able to obtain a mandate to open negotiations during this term of office, so that we can make progress on this important issue for the future of our union. under your presidency, we now have a great opportunity to simplify everyday life and strengthen competition for both businesses and innovators. it will require a strong commitment from parliament and the council of ministers. i can assure you that we in this parliament are committed to working intensively, with determination and transparency to bring about important reforms.
blue-card question. – mr president, since i was mentioned in mr gollnisch’s speech, i would like to take the floor to say that it is up to the french legal authorities to examine marine le pen’s case. it is not up to us in this house. as the rapporteur for the report on the request for waiver of immunity, i have examined whether there is a link between her acting as a member of the european parliament and her alleged hate speech in lyon. there is no such link. secondly, mr gollnisch, there is no fumus persecutionis in this case. thirdly, there is very clear case law from the european court of justice on this issue. mr gollnisch, i would kindly ask you to refrain from laughing. it is a serious matter to uphold the dignity of this european parliament.
in writing. − like the text of the resolution, we welcome the agreement reached on 27 june 2013. the new longterm budget is, thanks to pressure from the european parliament, much more modern and flexible. eu funds will now be able to be used even more where they are most useful. we also share the criticism of the european parliament of the undemocratic way in which the agreement was reached and the undermining of the european parliament's legislative power under the treaty which the agreement entails. at the same time, however, the resolution sets out a list of new financial requirements which further delay the adoption of the long-term budget which would make it difficult to get a good start on the new 2014-2020 programming period and jeopardise the swedish rebate. we were therefore unable to vote in favour of the resolution as a whole and have therefore decided to abstain in the final vote. we assume that the heads of state or government also share the view that it is contrary to the treaty to leave the eu budget in deficit, and assume that they intend to live up to their commitments in this respect.
in writing. - i have suspended the vote on the giegold report. i strongly support the intention to tackle and regulate this type of speculation which can lead to so-called ponzi frauds. however, on the one hand, the measures should go further than in this proposal and on the other hand, the whole report is based on the idea that this type of financial market is fundamentally a positive thing.
in writing. the swedish social democrats are opposed to three elements of this report. firstly, we cannot support the idea that tax revenues - if and when the tax is implemented throughout the eu - should be used at least in part to expand the eu budget. secondly, we believe that it is wrong to harmonise tax rates completely; eu legislation in the field of taxation should go no further than establishing minimum levels. thirdly, we question the wisdom of making spot transactions in the foreign exchange market subject to the tax. this may in the long run harm the export industry. at the same time, the report also has several positive aspects. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of turkey. in principle, we also see it as very urgent that the undertaxation of the financial sector be corrected. we have therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. - i have suspended the vote on the report by mr podimata. i support the proposal for a financial transaction tax. however, this proposal is not well formulated and is rather like a tobin tax, and the revenue will be passed on to the eu budget. i believe that the revenue should go to the member states' own budgets and be reserved for climate and employment measures and for various forms of aid to developing countries.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. if a tax is to be imposed, it should be imposed globally. the tax increases the cost of capital for companies, which leads to reduced investment and thus lower economic growth. the borrowing costs of governments are also increasing, which must be financed by other tax increases or expenditure cuts. if the tax is to be raised on the financial sector, it should be done in a way that has the least negative impact on the economy. taxing the financial sector would be far better than introducing a tax that hits ordinary citizens' savings, pensions and jobs. we believe that the swedish example of unilaterally introducing a ftt in the 1980s, which resulted in the majority of securities trading moving to london, should be taken into account so that we do not repeat the same mistake at european level. we believe that there is a high risk that the stabilising effects of financial markets will not be achieved if eleven eu countries independently adopt a ftt. major distortions can be expected in the form of transactions moving to less transparent and less open markets outside europe, to non-taxed financial instruments or being discontinued altogether.
in writing. - i have suspended the vote on the balz report. i believe that it is up to latvia itself to decide whether it will join the euro or not. however, i regret that the latvian parliament chose to take this decision without first holding a referendum in which its own people were consulted.
in writing. − i abstained on the report on the situation of fundamental rights in hungary. while i believe that parliament could not ignore or deny the concerns over the hungarian constitutional reform expressed by several independent international organisations, such as the commission, the venice committee and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, at the same time i could not support the report in its present form because it goes beyond its mandate and is very intrusive in relation to the subsidiarity of member states. member states should be treated on an equal footing, with no double standards in the monitoring of the application of the eu law. i did not support the new mechanism for monitoring respect for fundamental rights in member states proposed in the report, because i think that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, should be the institution responsible for assessing breaches in eu law. i agree, nevertheless, that procedures could be more effective when it comes to violations of fundamental rights in member states. this parliament can play an important role in bringing the right pressure to bear, but it should not become the judge itself.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on the situation of fundamental rights: standards and practices in hungary, i chose to abstain. i did so because i do not believe that the european parliament should see it as its task to accuse, judge and execute. the principles and tasks of the rule of law are, of course, to be respected by all eu member states. in the absence of such a procedure, it must be for the commission and, ultimately, the court of justice to act and to give judgment. it is hardly reasonable to build up additional mechanisms in addition to the enforcement efforts that exist today in the field of eu activity.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. however, we have doubts about paragraphs 9 and 14 of the report, both of which concern the harmonisation of criminal law within the eu. we believe it is important that the criminal justice systems of the eu member states include a common definition of fraud and irregularities in order to protect the financial interests of the union and to achieve better coordination against fraud within the eu. however, paragraphs 9 and 14 express the need for the harmonization of the member states' criminal laws in all areas, which is a message that we swedish social democrats are opposing, since criminal law is a sensitive area and the views on what should be criminal, how to combat crime and which penalties should be applied differ between the member states. we therefore voted against these points.
in writing. - the fight against fraud is particularly important in the current economic crisis. in 2011, over 400 million euros disappeared. every euro lost through tax evasion, subsidy fraud, smuggling and customs fraud has to be paid for by eu citizens. national regulatory authorities have a major responsibility. e-government, electronic transactions and common it systems for customs authorities facilitate monitoring and increase transparency. this costs money, but the commission should allocate additional resources to national police forces and to europol, so that we can beat the criminal gangs and ensure that the much needed revenue does not go into the pockets of the bad guys.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism and for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism. we are, however, skeptical about certain passages in the resolution. in recital f, incorrect information is given that signals intelligence in sweden is carried out 'without legal orders'. under swedish signals intelligence legislation, fra requests authorisation from the defence intelligence tribunal for each new mission. amendment no 3 provides that edward snowden be granted asylum in the eu. however, we believe that any asylum decisions should be made in accordance with the relevant legislation in the member states, and who is granted protection status should not be decided by the european parliament. although we believe that it is essential to clarify the extent of the us surveillance, we do not believe that an inquiry in the european parliament as proposed in paragraph 16 is the right way to go. for example, parliament has no right to request classified documents from member states. moreover, such an inquiry risks duplicating the investigations currently being carried out by the european commission. we therefore abstained on these points.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on an own-initiative report on the impact of the crisis on access to care for vulnerable groups in europe. there are several points in the report which i cannot support. this includes a long list of oversteps into the member states' decision-making area, and several points that dismiss the difficult but necessary austerity policy of several member states. however, access to care for the most vulnerable groups in society, not least the undocumented, is such an important issue that i chose to vote in favour of the report, despite the major shortcomings mentioned above.
mr president, i think ms in ‘t veld is absolutely right. the revelations that have come to light are very important. we must show that the european parliament is able to react quickly when bad things happen in the outside world. we should also demonstrate very clearly that, as ms in ‘t veld was saying, we are not a rubber-stamping machine. if we sign agreements with other parties, those agreements must be honoured. if this is not the case we will be upset and take action.
the questioner. - mr president! - what is it? thank you for being here, mrs reding. i would like to say that this is an oral question from the whole committee. a eurobarometer survey shows that almost 70% of europeans see the gender pay gap as a serious problem. today, the pay gap is about 16 percent. this obviously affects women throughout their lives. if you go into a store, you don't get a 16 percent discount. if you have to pay rent or interest on the house, you don't get a 16 percent discount. if you're going to go by car or bus, you don't get a 16 percent discount on gas or bus fares. as far as the benefits are concerned, you have 16 percent lower benefits in the health insurance systems and in the pension system you unfortunately get 16 percent less in the end. there are two reasons for this. on the one hand, there is of course a pure wage discrimination, but there is also something that is structurally discriminatory in terms of pay in the gender segregated labour market, where women's work is valued less than men's work. for example, in a grocery store, a woman working in the checkout area may be paid less than a man working on the floor lifting goods. or a midwife in france who is paid less than her equal colleagues despite having the same job or the same education. in may 2012, the gender equality committee asked the commission to review the existing directive as it appears that not much has changed in the 40 years of this directive. i know that viviane reding and the commission share the concern of the european parliament about today's pay gap. however, the commission has not yet responded to the gender equality committee's request. so far the commission has said that it is not going to do anything about this because it is waiting for an investigation that is not yet complete. but the commission has promised to return to the european parliament in the first half of 2013. now it's september and we're still waiting. the question you have to ask yourself, though, is: how long will european women have to wait? how long are we going to tolerate this discrimination? how long are we going to tolerate violations of fundamental rights? if we all agree that the gender pay gap is a serious problem, why are we doing nothing? while the member states are undoubtedly the main responsible for the current wage discrimination, the commission has a specific responsibility as it is the body empowered to make new proposals. the pay gap is, of course, primarily about power structures in our society. women are degraded for the simple reason that they are women. we therefore need policy reforms aimed at eliminating wage discrimination and creating a much more integrated and equal labour market. an important prerequisite here is the principle of collective agreements, which the committee on gender equality has also taken a position on. tools are needed, such as gender equality authorities to monitor, an obligation for companies to report pay transparently and a comprehensive legislation with the possibility of penalties. we need more transparency. wages are and should not be a private matter. legal aid must be offered to those who are discriminated against by an employer. we must not forget that equal pay for equal work is one of the founding principles of the european union. it's illegal to discriminate against women in the labor market, yet very little is done. my committee stresses the importance of working aggressively to reduce the wage gap. the question is what the commission intends to do, because almost 70% of europeans see the gender pay gap as a very serious problem.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the gender pay gap starts at the very first job. the gaps increase during the rest of working life. not only are men's wages higher, but men also have a greater wage spread, which leads to better earnings growth throughout their working lives and significantly higher pensions. is that fair? the eu has violated both eu treaties, directives and un conventions on equal pay and equality before the law for almost 50 years. that we're not ashamed! when will there be a change? we're just gonna wait another 50 years? it takes a lot to achieve a society where everyone benefits. both the eu and the member states have a responsibility in this respect. when will we stop discriminating against women? what measures and steps does the commission intend to take?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am pleased that a first trialogue agreement on the market abuse regulation is now on the table. the legislation we are about to adopt is, in my view, a major step forward in several respects. an important aspect is that the scope is greatly extended. the new rules cover the manipulation of key interest rates such as libor and euribor. the same applies to insider dealing and market manipulation in the newspaper commodity trading, emission allowance trading and otc trading outside the regular market places. this creates a regulatory framework covering a very large part of the market. the white spots on the map are being reduced considerably. i think that's great. another important aspect is that whistleblowers - i.e. internal whistleblowers - are given better protection than before. the employees of different financial companies should be able to report misconduct anonymously without fear of reprisals from their employers. this is a crucial improvement which will definitely result in a fairer and more stable market. the negotiations on market abuse must now be pushed forward so that the related directives are also put in place.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is an important report because it contains a safeguard clause for the temporary suspension of visa liberalisation for third countries when one of our member states is faced with an increase in the number of unfounded asylum applications. but the goal - which i want to emphasise - is that we should achieve visa liberalisation after all. through the reciprocity mechanism we are increasing solidarity between our countries and at the same time sending a very strong signal to the outside world, namely that all member states should be treated equally when it comes to visas. as regards the committee procedure, the alde group recommends that we vote this week and not use the debate on delegated acts as a reason for rejecting the agreement which, after much effort and difficulty, has nonetheless been reached. what i want to stress today is that we need more solidarity. we need to show that solidarity and show that we belong together to the outside world.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain from voting. of course, the importance of energy efficiency should be emphasised, energy efficiency in, among other things, buildings is a key part of becoming a more sustainable society. the report also stresses the need for financial instruments that will go directly to private enterprise and public-private partnerships.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, please! you guys! the european parliament, like the commission, is keen to reach a decision on the amending budget2 in the context of the agreement on the next long-term budget. why, you may ask. payment appropriations for 2013 - what do they have to do with the future? well, it has to do with the future in more ways than one. firstly, it is about the credibility of eu policy. the eu must emerge from its payments crisis if we are to maintain confidence in our investments in, among other things, research and education. what kind of scientist enters a european research project if he is not sure that he will be paid in the end? who sends students on erasmus exchanges if they are not sure that the eu will cover their share of the cost? at the moment, the eu cannot pay its bills. secondly: the increasingly politicized dispute over the payment appropriations which should be a technical consequence of the eu's budgetary ambitions must be brought to an end. it would be devastating if, in addition to the sharply reduced long-term budget, which reduces the eu's ambitions, the union were to have difficulties in implementing even these hard-won programmes because of insufficient payment appropriations. thirdly: the eu budget is not allowed to run a deficit under the treaty. if we were nevertheless to drag a lot of unpaid bills into the next budget period, this could be the same threat to credibility as when some euro countries got away with their breaches of the stability and growth pact. we are pleased that a large majority of member states - unfortunately with some exceptions - are taking their responsibilities seriously and we look forward to a serious consideration of the second part of this amending budget which the commission is expected to present shortly.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. cybersecurity is a civilian issue and it's important that we focus on the civilian side and build resilience. an example from my country is that there was a flood in a basement, after which train traffic was shut down for three days because the control systems were down. it is not criminals or other governments that will cause most of the disruption. it's accidents and incompetence. that's what we have to plan for. we can't save money and shut down critical systems at the slightest disturbance. i hope that's what our cybersecurity work will focus on. the commissioner was right when he said that europeans do not want to be monitored. however, the reality is quite different here and we must - both the commission and ourselves - take legislative initiatives so that cybersecurity also means security from being monitored, security to safeguard our privacy. with those conditions, we all have success and can succeed. finally, we also need increased responsibilities for software vendors to deal with security vulnerabilities. it's not like you always have to click "accept the terms" and they can always get away with all the responsibility for bad programming. it's not a strong consumer protection.
mr president, thanks to the rapporteur. it is all very simple. if we want to be the leading global economy, we need to be leading regarding the digital agenda. if we want to regain our leadership, we need to secure that the nokias can buy the microsofts and that the new googles, the new yahoos and the new apples emerge in europe. that is how simple it is. but the difficult thing is that we now need to do the reforms that are needed for that. we need to secure that we have the highest and the best capacities for broadband and internet, because is the pre-condition in order to secure that european citizens can have the best opportunities and we can develop the best services here. we also need to be able to ensure fourth generation take-up, where member states need to implement decisions on the 800 megahertz band, and we need to secure that we can get the transnational investment making the european union the most attractive part of the global economy regarding investment. we need to allocate the frequencies needed to have the mobile data traffic that a leading global economy needs to have. that means the 700 megahertz band, which this parliament has already supported, but that also means to secure that we in this part of the world can have all the new leading services. it is very simple, madam commissioner, mr minister: we need to do the difficult things and if we do not to do the difficult things, we will not regain the leadership that we would have.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we all agree that the digital agenda is something that europe could use a lot of in terms of getting the economy moving and so on. we've seen great hopes for cloud services and so on, but unfortunately, there's been a very big problem in the last week and the last few days with the revelations about what the us spy agency nsa is doing. first of all, we now realize that if a company or an individual puts their data in the cloud, yes, it ends up in the united states. and if the computers are in the united states, then the u.s. intelligence community has full access to all the data and saves and stores it. but it's worse than that. we've also learned that the united states is deliberately sabotaging our infrastructure. they've deliberately built in weaknesses to make the encryption easier to break. they do this to spy on us themselves, but because these back doors exist, terrorists and crooks can also exploit them. we need to make sure we evaluate what's happened and try to save our internet.
mr president, the digital single market is a good objective. copyright reform seems inevitable for this goal, but unfortunately the commission has not even managed an evaluation of the directive from 2001. i would be delighted to have an explanation as to why that is not happening. at the same time, one wonders whether overhauling all of the existing telecommunications legislation without proper evaluation would be the right way forward. we have many urgent problems that are well assessed. one of them is ‘notice and action’: how to ensure a due process for protecting freedom of speech online. but here the commission has so far been unwilling to let parliament have a say. parliament should clarify a clearly dangerous legal uncertainty which the commission has itself established. young people in europe do not trust in the european union and they do not vote in the elections. and why should they? the digital single market needs to be founded on respect for fundamental rights, legal certainty, trust, privacy and resilience. i would be very happy to work with the commission to achieve these goals and to hear the commission’s comments on how to ensure they are achieved.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me first read out directly from the latest scientific advice on eels from the international council for the exploration of the seas (ices) that says: ‘the eel stock remained in a critical state in 2012. the recruitment index ... is currently at its historical lowest, less than 1% for the north sea’. outside the north sea less than 6.5%, compared to the years 1960 to 1979’. ices also says: ‘urgent action is needed. ... all anthropogenic mortality (recreational and commercial fishing, hydropower, pollution) affecting ... eels should be reduced to as close to zero as possible’. if this had been the case for a more charismatic species, let us say swordfish or bluefin tuna, i think the commissioner would have been here in the first place, and i am quite certain that we would now have a very noisy public debate over the lack of urgent action taken; but unfortunately this is the european eel with its fascinating life cycle. as you know it is born and then dies in the sargasso sea and goes through several transformations from glass eel to yellow eel to silver eel. it does not get the public attention it deserves. the regulation that is now before you, and on which we will vote tomorrow, dates back to 2007 when member states, after many years of discussion, finally agreed to do something about the eel decline. the debate has been going on for more than 10 years now and the regulation has been in place for more than five years, and during all this time the eel stock has continued to decline. in 2012 the advice from ices sounded yet another alarm bell. the restocking of eels that has been allowed as a conservation measure is – and i quote again – ‘unlikely to contribute to the recovery of the european eel population in a substantial manner’. this is indeed a huge problem since many of the member states’ eel recovery plans rely heavy on eel restocking that is now conducted without any guidelines or criteria at all regarding survival of glass eels, or conditions to allow silver eels to escape to the sargasso sea to spawn. basically what we are adding now to the old regulations are two very important things. first of all, that the commission should present a report on the effectiveness of restocking as a conservation measure. secondly, we are asking the commission to come up with a new legislative proposal before the end of march next year that will, with high probability, save the european eel. i hope too that the council will see the need for this and that the council will not try and bury this regulation along with all the other long-term management plans, because of the different interpretations of allocation of fishing opportunities. there are no allocations of fishing opportunities in this regulation, so after the vote in parliament i look forward to a speedy process forward. a lot of things are at stake here, not only the survival of the eel but also the credibility of the eu as a serious player on the international arena, promoting sustainable fisheries and even imposing trade sanctions on third countries that allow unsustainable fisheries. remember that the european eel is listed as an acutely endangered species and that it falls under the cites convention on trade in endangered species. i want to thank all colleagues and shadow rapporteurs that have supported this report. to those that think we should stick to simple ‘lisbonisation’ in this process i want to say that i am quite certain that future generations will not understand the logic of doing a simple legal adjustment to this regulation which has the fate of an entire species in its hands.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european eel stock is in a terrible state. it is about fishing and the dramatic changes in the life-cycle of a fish that not only has a complex life cycle but can live for decades before the next generation is born. we must therefore take all reasonable steps to ensure that we create the right conditions for the recovery of the eel. a mix of rapid measures in line with the latest scientific assessments of available stocks, but also long-term measures to restore migration routes and create long-term conditions will be required. we have not wanted to advocate a total cessation of fishing, a measure which, of course, sounds very forceful, but which would undermine the incentive for voluntary action and perhaps even be harmful, since it would eliminate the possibilities of discarding. i would rather see a requirement that when eel are released it should be done in the most responsible and efficient way possible, to ensure that this is good for the stock. we have also called on the commission to come forward with a new plan based on the latest scientific reports. i hope that this will mean a safer future for the european eel, but then all the member states will have to contribute in a better way than has been done in the past.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to thank isabella lövin for her fantastic and very important work. there are many myths about the eel. in the past, you didn't even know where it came from. no one had ever seen an eel born. for example, it was thought to have originated from sun-heated dew or from mud. today we know that the eel has a very, very complicated life cycle. it is born and dies in the sargasso sea, far from european waters, and it has been found impossible to breed an eel in captivity at all. if we want the eel to remain in europe, whether we want to protect it or eat it, we need international cooperation. i am therefore very pleased with this report by mrs isabella lövin, which provides us with a basis for this. but if we really want to see a difference, it's really about banning eel fishing until the stock recovers. there is no sign that recovery could happen without drastic measures. so the question is when do we dare to make such a decision, otherwise there is a very real risk that there will be no eel left at all. as isabella lövin said, how do we explain to future generations that we exterminated the eel?
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to repeat that the commission proposal aims at the ‘lisbonisation’ of our legislation: what we are simply trying to do is align the existing regulation to the new treaty – the treaty of lisbon. we are not interfering with the substance. still, i understand that it is reasonable, since we have so many indications that the stock is not doing well, for members of parliament to express their concerns, and i would like to reiterate that the commission is going to take on board your concerns. what we have already done is that we have asked our scientists to give us an assessment about the management plans by the member states, about the reporting system and about the other aspects you have already mentioned. so we are waiting for this assessment; we are then going to analyse it and i can promise you again that by the end of the year the commission will come back to you, to parliament and to the council, with a report about an assessment of what we have been doing until now and what is needed to improve the situation of the stock.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues very much for participating in this debate and for supporting the report. i thank those colleagues who mentioned all the other aspects that are threatening eels stocks: there is no debate about that at all. however, i must emphasise to the members from northern ireland that using the word ‘sustainables’ in relation to eel fisheries today is very difficult because we have a single european eel stock. even though some fishermen might see themselves as being sustainable, when we have a 99% decline in the eel stock and we do not have any criteria for or monitoring of the conditions of restocking, it is very difficult to call a fishery sustainable today. what we are asking for, commissioner, includes an evaluation of the restocking measures, and that is actually something new. the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) has expressed great concern over restocking and whether it actually contributes to the eel stock recovery or not. there is concern about the mortality during fishing of small glass eels, the possible transfer of diseases during transport, and whether or not stocked eels can actually survive and swim to the sargasso sea to spawn, rather than simply get fished. i would say to the epp group that i respect your wish to stick to the alignment. however, it is sometimes difficult to be consistent even inside your own group. i know that, with regard to the cod management plan in the baltic, the epp group was actually in favour of some very substantial changes to the ‘lisbonisation’ report, so you are not always very consistent in your approach. i would like to thank the commissioner for understanding that the urgency of this situation actually calls for some additional elements in the eel recovery plan. to those of you who want to look at the illegal export of glass eels, i would emphasise that i want to do that too, but somehow we are not very consistent in the european union. on the one hand, we acknowledge that the european eel is acutely endangered and should not be exported at all and, at the same time, we are very hesitant about taking action with regard to the trade inside the union. we have to be consistent, especially at a time when the eu is now considering trade sanctions against other countries that fish unsustainably. we have to live up to the same criteria ourselves.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is about creating jobs and growth in europe without spending taxpayers’ money. the services directive has been on our lips now since it was adopted in 2006 but, i beg my colleagues, let us not give in to services directive fatigue. the question still is: how many jobs are we losing on a daily basis because the internal market for services is not fully functioning? market completion is the highway out of the crisis. with the service sector accounting for nearly 70% of eu gdp and total employment, it is a pillar of our economy. progress has been made, but much too slowly and there are still unjustified restrictions and barriers which hamper the movement of services. is it, for instance, normal that nationality requirements and regional authorisations are still in place in some parts of the eu? is it proportionate to impose a change of business model if an architect’s practice from one member state wants to establish its company in another member state? is it acceptable to impose higher prices on non-residents for rescue packages or for travel? should you, mr president, need to have another insurance company when you already have a contract with an insurance company in your member state? these are unacceptable costs for small businesses. i welcome the great job that the commission has done and in particular the personal commitment of commissioner barnier – welcome, commissioner – to the policy of non-tolerance. the commission has identified breaches and is going to report to the council in october on loophole restrictions which have been identified, striving to maximise the economic effects. there are still too many double standards. rules exist, but they are not properly enforced and i welcome the infringement procedures launched by the commission. i do not see these as punitive measures. we must also engage in dialogue with member states, and the irish presidency and now the lithuanian presidency have both cooperated excellently with us in putting this on the agenda in the competitiveness council. i would also call on national parliaments and all the stakeholders to play their role in putting pressure on member states. some member states are not fully implementing the services directive in good faith, but that is no excuse. they are still accountable for depriving citizens of jobs. we have to remove these community barriers because it will not cost us to do so; it is just an effective way to generate growth. in particular, we have to look at the grey zones – the hidden fragmentation and the uncertainty of rules – which create confusion and delays for service providers. overriding reasons of public interest are invoked by national authorities in a way that is exaggerated. too seldom are proportionality assessments carried out – and i do suggest that the commission clarifies and provides guidance to member states on how to apply the proportionality test. likewise, i think we have to have a country-specific recommendation in the european semester, in the peer review and also linking to the implementation and full enforcement of the rules of the services directive. the economic needs tests have to be lifted, and unjustified requirements that shut down operators from other member states have to be removed. the internal market information system (imi) and solvit and the points of single contact have to be implemented fully in a way that is accessible throughout the eu and universally known. most importantly, mr president – and i will finish with this – implementation of the services directive should be put on the european council agenda and kept there for as long as it takes.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will be brief, but i would like to thank all the members who have expressed their views clearly and frankly, but who are all joining in asking the commission to implement this directive on services that you have adopted, just this directive and all this directive, with intelligence and pragmatism, in consultation with the member states. that's our job, and that's what i intend to do. mr morganti, with regard to the beaches, which have often been brought to my attention, that is exactly what i am obliged to do. these beach concessions are covered by the directive. the european parliament has voted on the text as it stands and i am responsible for implementing it. i am trying to do this as intelligently as possible and i am continuing my consultations, in a constructive way, to apply it on the spot - without calling it into question but, on the contrary, by strengthening tourist activity - with the italian authorities. mr ferreira recalled the concerns related to this services directive, in particular the risk of weakening the services previously provided by the state. i would remind you that this directive, to which you contributed so much a few years ago, is a directive on administrative simplification. social services are partly covered, and parliament had rejected an amendment which proposed their exclusion. if they are provided by the state, they are nevertheless excluded from the scope of this directive. as regards economic services of general interest, the provisions of the directive on temporary crossborder provision do not apply. many of you, and especially mrs gebhardt, who has worked a lot on this subject, have mentioned the social dimension, the protection of workers. i would like to reiterate that the directive as i read it, as i understand it and as i want to apply it, is very clear on this point: it does not affect labour law, nor the right to negotiate, conclude or apply collective agreements, nor the right to take collective action. i am quite honestly not aware of any member state which has now gone beyond this directive in terms of labour law. the national parliaments must play an important role here, alongside you, in ensuring that the measures taken at national level to implement this directive on services safeguard social rights. finally, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take from the very thorough and very intentional report by mrs corazza bildt a main message - addressed not only to me but also to the member states - to complete the implementation of this directive, to make it achieve its full potential. we know that the service economy in the european union has real growth potential, although i think that europe should not be content with being a service economy and that it should regain its manufacturing ambition in industry, but that is another matter. on the other hand, as regards the question of service communities - which we know are important in europe - we must complete the implementation of this directive. the way in which i will continue to implement it, in liaison with the member states, with intransigence, with zero tolerance, will be clearly written - i say it again publicly, have no doubt about it - in the economic line which is mine, that of the european project from the beginning - a line which should never have been abandoned even if this has sometimes been the case, as i have seen in the field of financial markets - the line of the competitive social market economy. economy, social, market, competitive: these four words, not just one, two or three of them, are important to me.
rapporteur. − madam president, i truly appreciate all my colleagues’ comments and i do understand the various sensitivities and the need to take into account the situation in the member states. the best way to include the social dimension is to make sure that people have a job. the best way to stand up for social rights is to make sure that people can, with a job, take care of their families and of their children. as ms gebhardt so rightly said, the services directive fully includes, in article 1, the social dimension and social rights. the treaty of lisbon does not need to be repeated. we all stand for it and have to respect it. there are two positions here. one is pragmatic, the one that commissioner barnier has been driving so fantastically well. that is to say: let us look at the restrictions, let us look at the loopholes, let us look at the problems. let us see how concretely we can work with member states to make sure that we remove the obstacles that deprive citizens of jobs, growth and competitiveness. and then you have an ideological position which says: let us repeat a thousand times what is already in the text, just to make the point that we stand for social rights. i would like to call on all of you, colleagues, to assume your responsibilities. and that includes our friends! it is true, ms rapti, that we have worked very closely together and i am truly surprised that, at the last minute in plenary, after we had gone the extra mile to make all the compromises that were satisfactory to the red and green groups, you should come here with threats and red lines. i do not understand this position. you have to be accountable to the people of europe, not to me. i call on you all, colleagues, to join forces and to focus the message to the member states to keep this issue at the highest level on the political agenda in the european union, removing obstacles in the interests of the full functioning of the internal market for services and in the interests of competitiveness, jobs and growth. please do not dilute the message. let us vote in a united way tomorrow, to implement fully the internal market for services.
mr president, i would like to thank the president of the commission for his presentation of the state of the union. i think we have two challenges. one is to deal with the consequences of the problems of the crisis which, as he underlined, we still have to fight. at the same time we also need to meet the challenges we have seen emerging, because the global economy in 2013 is not the same as before we entered the crisis in 2008. we face new and rapidly emerging competition in all areas and it is not enough to deal with the problems of the crisis. we must also accelerate the reforms needed to keep up with and to take up the global competition. i think one way of describing the change is that this year there will be more mobile-phone connections than human beings, which is a sign of the level of prosperity. it is also the sign of a totally new global economy. it is not enough to be as good as we were in 2008. we must be much better and that requires reforms in all areas. i would like the commission, as well as the presidency of the council, to see the challenges that we have in the global economy. that underlines for me that we must now take action to make reforms to the european economy for the internal market and ensure that we have full freedom of movement in all areas, not least the service sector. regarding the telecoms sector, we must be insistent and decisive in achieving a european telecoms market, which is one of the most important things in order to enable the whole of the european economy. i said yesterday, and i say now, that we need to ensure that we in europe can achieve the new googles, the new yahoos and the new apples. we must also ensure that in the future nokias will buy microsofts and not the other way round. i would like us to make the reforms that will turn europe into the leading economy. that requires difficult decisions and we are all responsible for taking them.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to change the date in that article from october 31 to december 31, 2013, since we are already in september. the commission has a little too little time to come up with a new evaluation.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to appeal to all colleagues to vote responsibly in favour of the services directive. a vote against would be a vote against jobs in europe. we went the extra mile to take into account all the concerns expressed by the social democrats on the social dimension that are fully covered by the treaty and in the services directive.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i regret that the green group voted against the report. that's an irresponsible and anti-work line, so i'm very sorry.
in writing. - i voted for the directive. the directive deals with eu biofuels policy. in 2008, parliament voted in favour of including indirect land use change (iluc) of which greenhouse gas emission reductions attributable to biofuels. the directive prevents land from being converted from food production to energy crops, which is positive both from the climate and food supply point of view. i welcome environmental and climate requirements on biofuels, but at the same time there are many other activities that have an impact on climate and land use. i regret that process residues from the pulp and paper industry such as black liquor, crude sulphate soap, crude tallow oil and tallbeck are not included in the list of advanced biofuels.
in writing. - the proposal for new rules on biofuels contained very detailed rules on forestry. the residues from the forestry and pulp industries represent a major potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the european parliament did not expressly reject the committee's discriminatory approach to biofuels from forests. we moderates therefore felt obliged to say no to the european parliament's position, even though we succeeded in removing several of the worst parts of the committee's proposal. forestry policy is and should remain a competence of the individual member states.
in writing. i voted for the papanikolaou report. it is good that these reports are drawing attention to the problem of youth unemployment in the eu. these reports also make a number of positive suggestions. i would have liked, however, to have criticised the fundamental problem, which is the neoliberal austerity policy, much more harshly. mass unemployment in the eu can only be effectively tackled by an expansionary and sustainable economic policy.
in writing. i have voted against the skrzydlewska report. it is good that these reports are drawing attention to the problem of youth unemployment in the eu. these reports also make a number of positive suggestions. i would have liked, however, to have criticised the fundamental problem, which is the neoliberal austerity policy, much more harshly. mass unemployment in the eu can only be effectively tackled by an expansionary and sustainable economic policy.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? i thank the rapporteur for a very excellent report. the balance is there, but let's not be naive. sometimes when you listen to the speeches, you actually get the impression that we can accept anything. belarus is the last dictatorship in europe. it is the only country - the commissioner also pointed out - that has the death penalty in place. countless appeals, petitions and demands to the lukashenka government have not led to the release of the many political prisoners. at the very least. the courts are uncertain and torture is not uncommon. the fact that europe's last dictator has been given the honour of hosting the 2014 ice hockey world cup is completely reprehensible. it is irresponsible for the international ice hockey federation to disregard respect for human rights when selecting a host country. we have said that in this house before. targeted restricted measures, as commissioner füle put it. i don't think sport is above humanity! that is why i have proposed that the european parliament should also criticise - and dare to do so - the hosting of the ice hockey world cup. that is amendment no 2. the idea that sports and politics should not mix is a well-known argument, but it no longer holds. so it is an honor when men and women who compete in the championships dare to speak out. the most recent was swedish high jumper emma green tregaro, who during the summer olympics in moscow painted her nails in the colors of the pride flag to show her support for the country's lgbtq movement. lukashenko is not going to host this championship. he's a dictator who needs to be removed from power, and i hope we can send that message to him and to the national hockey league tomorrow.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. − mr president, i want to thank sandrine bélier and also my colleague ian hudghton whose opinion was adopted with a complete majority in the committee on fisheries– a rare occurrence for the fisheries committee. all of the rapporteur’s amendments were subsequently adopted by the lead committee – and such an agreement between the fisheries committee and the environment committee is rarer still. mr hudghton’s opinion deals with two very important issues: first of all it makes express reference to the need to involve indigenous and local communities in relation to access – something which is in the protocol, but missing from the commission’s proposal – and, secondly, it recognises the possibility for the eu to extend the protocol’s scope to activities taking place in international waters beyond the economic zone, outside the 200 nautical miles limit – and this is extremely important because two thirds of the world’s oceans, one half of the globe, is actually outside national jurisdiction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the social dialogue has enormous untapped potential. it is not easy to find the smallest common denominator and to agree on such a large number of different traditions, but i believe that this will develop over time and become an increasingly important part of the way the european labour market develops. it is our task as legislators to assist the parties who own this issue and give them the tools to use. i think that the voluntary legal framework agreed by the committee is a good example of such a tool. i also personally believe that it is absolutely necessary to avoid the problem of delimitation between european and national negotiations in advance, which creates less uncertainty and a more predictable process. i therefore hope that the most favourable and non-regression clauses will remain after the vote this afternoon. a big thank you to thomas handel for speaking.
mr president, i would also like warmly to welcome you back. i fully support this report. children are first children and then migrants. there are too many differences in the way the member states treat unaccompanied minors. children should not be left in uncertainty, waiting for their destiny, not knowing where they are going and being sent back and forth. nor should they be detained. the new asylum package should be fully implemented and consistently so. the best interests of the child, individual assessment, dignity and legal certainty should be respected. the challenges are many; that is why member states should exchange best practices and ensure access to accommodation, healthcare and education. i am proud that sweden, which has ready accepted almost 4 000 minors, is now granting both permits and family reunion to children from syria. i do hope other members states will follow this humanitarian response and i encourage them to take shared responsibility.
in writing. − i supported the report on the new rules for visa liberalisation for third countries. the two mechanisms introduced are important in order to increase european solidarity and prevent abuse. the suspension mechanism cannot be triggered unilaterally and can be used only for a period of six months, as a last resort and in very restricted cases. as the ppe shadow rapporteur on visa liberalisation for the western balkans, i fought very hard to have visa freedom for those countries. i know very well how important is to build people-to-people contacts and to break the sense of isolation in order to promote stability in the region in a european perspective. i would like to reassure our friends from the balkans that this will not deprive them of their rights. my commitment remains the same. unfortunately there has been a misuse of the instrument and it needs to be clear that visa freedom has nothing to do with asylum or a work permit. i hope that this new mechanism will serve as a deterrent to abuse.
in writing. - we voted against the own-initiative report on the european cultural and creative sectors as sources of economic growth and employment because we strongly oppose the exclusion of audiovisual and cultural content services from eu-third country agreements, and in particular from the negotiating mandate for the eu-us free trade agreement. such an exemption hinders economic growth in the cultural and creative sectors and is counterproductive to transatlantic cooperation. we would like to emphasize that we also voted against increased public support measures and the establishment of a cultural investment bank.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission put forward a proposal which was too restrictive in terms of health claims. the council corrected it and made it much more difficult. however, the member states were never given the opportunity to say no to this. in fact, i think there's a majority of us who think it's kind of strange that you would put on a pasta package that carbohydrates help maintain normal brain function. i wonder if there is anyone in europe today who suffers from carbohydrate deficiency. no, i don't think that's what you mean. even if efsa has investigated and said that it is true, i think that the commission, parliament and the council of ministers should have taken their responsibility and said that it is true, but it is a meaningless claim that should not be allowed to exist. now, unfortunately, all we have to do is choose between what's on the table and saying no. if we say no, however, it would mean that the claims would be on dextrostablet, on sugar - everywhere they would be. i would personally like to say no to this, to turn around and get a total ban, but like the social democrats, the green group argues that this is a risky strategy, because we do not know when such a process would be completed. then these claims could be on even more absurd products than pasta. but we should actually do something about the fact that a majority of us here and a majority of the population and certainly a majority of the governments, if they were asked, think we shouldn't have ridiculous claims about food. it lowers the credibility of the health claims that are actually relevant, because we want people to eat more of something that's healthy. but like i said, no european is suffering from carbohydrate deficiency.
for the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is very easy to understand that there is a fear that we will lose food security. i think, however, that in this case we are allowed to think. as the previous speaker said, it is a little dangerous to pick out a piece of a whole, because food control of animal products should start with the inspection of the live animal. it must be carried out and be extremely thorough. it's where we can see how the animal is doing and how the animal has been treated and lived. i'm not a big believer in the old-fashioned methods of examining the carcass. i think that an ocular examination is probably quite acceptable, but that we should be much more careful than we are now in the microbiological examination of carcasses, because the zoonoses with which we have the greatest problem in europe today are not actually visible, with or without a knife in hand. we need a microscope if we're going to control them. i think that the commission's proposals are partly good and partly not good. i would very much like to see this debate taken up and put into a broader context.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is not appropriate to accept proposals which save the slaughter industry money but not those which cost money. you can't pick and choose certain pieces that benefit industry. true, the kind of problems that are found by palpation have become rarer. but even if only 1.3% of carcasses are infected, and even if the detection rate were only 0.3% different from today, that still means that 400,000 europeans would have a piece of meat on their plate every day that has blisters or tumors. although it is claimed that this would be found further down the slaughter chain, we have experience that if unserious operators - if this is not stopped already at the slaughterhouse - found unsuitable pieces of meat somewhere in the chain, they would come back. if we put them in the slaughterhouse, there's fewer actors, more chance of stopping it early enough to not end up on our plates. that's reason enough to say no to this. moreover, animal welfare organisations and veterinarians have also said that it is not appropriate to do this without also taking other measures that were proposed, but which the commission now does not want to do. finally, there may be a risk that small slaughterhouses or small farmers, that is to say small businesses, will be affected more than large ones, as marit paulsen very rightly said, that we should have the whole animal welfare chain intact. we need to find a solution to that problem, too.
for the verts/ale group. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. we have now finally reached a new common fisheries policy. one of the most important principles of the external fisheries policy is that the eu negotiates only for a surplus of fish that the coastal nation itself does not need, and that the local population does not need. as regards this agreement with mauritania, mauritanian fishermen themselves have a market and a need for the squid. the fact that our rapporteur recommends that we reject this agreement because spanish fishermen want this squid is immoral in my view. we must not only comply with our new fisheries policy, but also with the convention on the law of the sea. article 62 stipulates that no country may claim any fish that the coastal country itself needs. mauritania is a developing country, and we must respect and give it the opportunity to develop itself. that is why i support this agreement. i think it is an exemplary agreement of which the eu should be proud.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. tobacco kills four times as many europeans each year as workplace accidents, traffic accidents, homicides, aids, and all other drugs combined. the measures we are now proposing, i.e. tightening up the rules, are in principle free of charge for society, but the health benefits could be even greater. attitudes towards tobacco can be changed so that the next generation of europeans does not have to grow up in the womb exposed to the harmful effects of tobacco, and so that we do not have a situation where 70 per cent of smokers start as children, before the age of 18. so we are no longer talking about free choice, but we are talking about our democratic responsibility to help children not to choose the path of tobacco and suffering. in view of this, i find it scandalous that people in this house, particularly from the ppe group, in their amendments, take the line of the tobacco industry on all the issues that the tobacco industry has identified as important, even though your negotiator has had a very good position and good cooperation with the rest of us. why is the warning text at the top? yes, because it is to warn people! then it should be seen and not hidden behind a shelf edge. there's no objective reason to keep it at the bottom. the only purpose is to hide it. i am in favour of this variant, as in australia, where the whole package is avoided as the last marketing ploy in the tobacco companies' arsenal. i know i will lose, but then at least we can avoid undermining the commission's proposal and retain 75%. delegated acts sound like a technical detail, but if we delete all of them, we make it very difficult for the commission to adapt the directive to reality when new problems arise. it is important that we do not delete delegated acts. it is another priority of the tobacco industry. i hope that these proposals will be voted down. the big question is also the next generation of products. we have now focused on article 18 on e-cigarettes. we're talking about a product that got 160,000 new american teens started using nicotine last year. it's not just a weaning product, it's also a weaning product. the tobacco industry itself expects to make more money from this in ten years than from cigarette sales. if you have a nicotine cigarette with a piña colada flavor, there is a high chance that someone will accidentally pour it into their drink mix and actually die of an overdose. we must regulate this in a serious way, so that we avoid damage. finally, the commission the taste of the snus will be decided by sweden, and licorice pipes will not be banned.
mr president, i would like to thank you. smoking kills - we all know that. in fact, much has been done to prevent smoking both here in the eu and in our own countries. today, we take further necessary steps. the most important thing, as has been pointed out here, is that children and young people do not start smoking. commissioner, we swedes must be allowed to keep our snus. it's part of our culture. sweden has had a legal exemption for snus since our membership in 1995. banning snus in sweden would be like banning alsacevin here in strasbourg. my message is clear: don't touch that snot! all legislation must be reasonable and proportionate. banning licorice pipes is actually a bunch of crap. my message is clear: don't touch the licorice pipes!
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting, because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in the above case, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we would like to emphasize that we are opposed to the reintroduction of the possibility of using the fund for other purposes than its original purpose. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to create more jobs, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the main problem with regard to the high level of unemployment in the eu is the austerity policy advocated by the commission and decided upon by the governments of the member states. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting, because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in the above case, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we would like to emphasize that we are opposed to the reintroduction of the possibility of using the fund for other purposes than its original purpose. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to create more jobs, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting, because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in the above case, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we would like to emphasize that we are opposed to the reintroduction of the possibility of using the fund for other purposes than its original purpose. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to create more jobs, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i am doing this in order to provide workers in these cases with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to stress that the main problem with regard to the high level of unemployment in the eu is the austerity policy advocated by the european commission and decided upon by the governments of the member states. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting, because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in the above case, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we would like to emphasize that we are opposed to the reintroduction of the possibility of using the fund for other purposes than its original purpose. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to create more jobs, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. of course, sweden will have to decide on the swedish snus. the fact that it has been called into question at all is completely unacceptable to me. but countries that want to follow sweden's example and allow snus, which has proven to cause sweden the least number of cancer cases of tobacco damage in europe, should of course be allowed to do so. of course, the least dangerous tobacco product should not be the only one to be banned. it's as crazy as banning snus to stop and try to make it harder for e-cigarettes, while allowing cigarettes. anything that can get people to quit smoking is something we should welcome, rather than make difficult and prevent. the solution to the tobacco problem is not to try to take us back to the 1970s with tobacco in some kind of 'blue-and-white' taping where everything should taste and look the same. that is not a modern tobacco policy. instead, we should give people access to less harmful alternatives - that's modern tobacco policy.
in writing. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'snuff' in the definition of the term 'snuff'. snus is a product that helps smokers to quit smoking. if the proportion of smokers and snusers in the eu were the same as in sweden, we would save between 300 000 and 350 000 lives a year.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. one in three women worldwide is a victim of physical or sexual violence. the problem is shockingly common in both rich and poor countries. violence against women is a widespread social problem that also affects the economy. violence against women is rooted in the gendered order in which we live. violence against women is a violation of human rights. that is why the istanbul convention is so good, because it clarifies this very well. the convention takes a holistic approach to the fight against violence, focusing on prevention, protection and support, prosecution and integrated policies. the main focus is on women and girls, but other victims of violence in close relationships are also included, such as men, children and the elderly. i therefore commend the istanbul convention for its dual nature, being both a human rights convention and a criminal law convention. the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to present a directive on violence against women. the commission has so far refused to put forward a proposal covering all forms of violence against women. as chairman of the femm committee, i have often asked the council for help in changing the commission's mind. but i understand that the council is not interested in introducing a directive at eu level either. but then you should really be interested in the member states signing this intergovernmental convention. now, the chairman of the board and the representatives don't hear what i'm saying, but i'm gonna say this: you want to fight violence against women and girls, as we do, right? so my question to the council is: what does the council intend to do to get more countries to ratify and sign this convention? what does the lithuanian presidency intend to do to bring this issue up on the agenda?
mr president, domestic violence is not a private issue. it is a serious crime and a global phenomenon. we need to keep violence against women – from honour killings to sexual abuse and all other forms of violence – at the top of our list of priorities. that is why i have been joining and supporting the initiatives of colleagues in this parliament to ensure that member states meet their responsibilities to sign and ratify the council of europe istanbul convention. we have also adopted concrete instruments in this parliament: the protection of victims, the european protection order, and the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. these are really helpful to protect more women and to ensure that perpetrators are brought to justice. they need to be implemented and i call on the member states to fully and correctly enforce them and respect the deadlines. as many of you have said, prevention is also very important, including raising awareness and education. we need to do more together on gender stereotypes, on stigmatisation, on discrimination, to empower women and to promote equality. it is about changing the culture, developing a culture of respect for the rights of women and girls. too many women and children continue to live in fear and uncertainty and the time has come to help them break the silence, break the isolation, break the loneliness. we have the responsibility to make sure that victims – be they men, children, women or girls – feel confident enough to speak up and be heard, and to trust that they will be protected. i will continue to be committed to zero tolerance for impunity and to encourage member states and the commission to come up with a comprehensive and clear strategy for the eradication of all violence against women and children.
mr president, i would like to thank you. china is the world's third largest economy and the eu's second largest trading partner after the united states. the eu, on the other hand, is china's largest trading partner. therefore, a bilateral investment agreement between the eu and china, focusing on better market access, is something that would bring these countries closer together, and could lead to huge economic gains for all involved, not least in terms of jobs and growth. i am therefore very pleased that the commission has presented this communication and that we in the european parliament are now going to adopt this resolution tomorrow. i know - and we hear this in the debate - that many colleagues are deeply concerned about such an agreement. they worry about human rights, environmental impact, social impact, but most of all they worry about chinese companies competing with european companies and jobs. i don't think we need to have that much confidence. european companies are successful and have opportunities in china. however, we cannot ignore the fact that china has human rights and environmental impact problems. then an investment agreement is not a threat but part of the solution. if we only see threats everywhere, we'll miss all opportunities. an investment agreement opens up exactly those opportunities. that is why i am also saddened to see that the resolution we are now about to vote on is almost more negative than positive. you get the feeling we don't want to have this deal. i think that the resolution's attempt to exclude a whole range of areas already is counterproductive. last but not least, i think that the european parliament is acting in a contradictory way: to accuse china of using state subsidies is right, but to say in the same breath that we should have a lot of subsidies is not reasonable. then we'll speak with tongues.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu recently negotiated a free trade agreement with south korea and is now in a position to start negotiations with japan. these agreements are good and will lead to cheaper goods for swedish and european consumers, and they help us out of the crisis. but taiwan, a modern democracy and one of our largest trading partners, europe's seventh largest trading partner, we are not negotiating with. i sometimes wonder why. i suspect it's fear of the reaction of the chinese communist party. because officially, according to beijing, taiwan does not exist. the small island is only a boisterous outpost province on a temporary excursion. in this way, taiwan has effectively been frozen out of the world community and denied membership in everything from the un to the who. this is something europe should not be playing with, and i don't think we need to. new zealand has managed to conclude a free trade agreement, japan has negotiated an investment agreement. taiwan we must trust taiwan would never dare or want to make a deal with europe if it jeopardised relations with china. in addition, it puts taiwan in a very difficult position when we conclude agreements with its main competitors. the competitors with whom we now have agreements produce almost exactly the same things, but they now have free access to europe. in practice, we are depriving taiwan of access to the world's largest market, europe. we are leaving the taiwanese out in the cold, all because we have more regard for a big and strong dictatorship than a small and threatened democracy. while free trade and economic gains are the main arguments in favour of this, it should not be the determining factor in the economy or security policy. i think it's a moral issue. therefore, for the sake of both taiwan and europe, we should consider starting negotiations on an ambitious free trade agreement as a matter of urgency. the biggest obstacle we have to overcome to get there, i think, is our own fear and cowardice.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the humanitarian disaster in syria is gigantic. human suffering is horrible. it is time for us in europe to show that european solidarity exists. we must each take our share of responsibility in our own countries to offer protection to the most vulnerable. the best way to do this is to offer refugees from the large refugee camps in turkey, lebanon and jordan protection in all eu member states. sweden has received 1 900, germany more than 5 000 recently. if the other 26 countries follow these examples, we could offer 100,000 vulnerable people protection now. the next step is, of course, to hold this important conference, which we have talked about. secondly, we must ensure that we can offer legal and safe shelter to people. this is done by issuing humanitarian visas from temporary asylum offices in these very refugee camps.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is an important piece of legislation that will make it easier for eu citizens to move across borders to work. professional mobility remains low within the eu. we must make it easier for workers to work in countries other than their own. the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications are currently complex, and the new directive can remedy this. the new proposal aims, among other things, to harmonise the levels of training for a number of regulated professions. that is great, but at the same time we must make sure that we do so without compromising the quality of education. what worries me most is the level of education of the nurses. in sweden we have a high standard of nursing education. our nurses are qualified to perform highly skilled tasks that would have been performed by doctors in other countries. this is not just about skills and education levels. it is a long-term endeavour to raise the status of the nursing profession. as the nursing profession is and has been a profession dominated by women, it is of the utmost importance to support the work to raise the professional status of nurses.
mr president, it appears that there are quite a lot of quite close votes on this one. for this particular report could we not just do the electronic checks immediately and perhaps save time for us all?
mr president, i would like to thank you. more jobs for our young people starts with a well-functioning common market. simpler and faster recognition of professional qualifications across the eu is a concrete way of promoting jobs and free movement in europe. it is about breaking down bureaucratic barriers, not regulating the labour market. i'd welcome a volunteer work card. it will be an important tool for moving around europe and applying for jobs across the eu, with public authorities communicating via the web in a digital platform. i've fought for safe care. it is very important that we have adopted and will introduce a list of strong, mandatory qualifications and competence requirements for nurses. the clinical training should enable them to work independently. some countries will already be grading their professional competence and quality requirements. let me be clear that no one should force sweden to accept a nurse, midwife or doctor who does not meet the safe quality standards. patient safety first!
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. the harmonization of professional qualifications and specific training requirements for the health care sector must be carried out in such a way as to safeguard both quality and patient safety. the new proposal now includes provisions for the basic training for admission to general nursing education to be 10 to 12 years. this eliminates the risk of setting a lower ceiling and a lower level of ambition than we have in sweden, for example. we voted yes.
in writing. - i voted against the directive. it is good that people can now move to new countries and have their skills recognised, but this must be done under conditions that guarantee quality, safety and the right to work. there are many problems with the directive, and they concern everything from health care to construction workers. as regards nursing education, there is a risk that the german and irish models will in the long term lower the level of quality and professionalism we are striving for in sweden. other problems concern partial access, where a member state has to argue that it may be dangerous to be able to prohibit it, and that a delay in processing an application means that access is granted automatically! there are also questions about who should be entitled to validate language skills, etc. i see great risks in this directive. everything from worsening security in certain industries to wage dumping. that's why i voted no.
(introduction without microphone) ... correct, clear and understandable information. we're not gonna mislead the consumer. while the claim that carbohydrates are good for the brain is true, vegetables also contain carbohydrates. so i am glad that we have now limited the possibility of having salt in products that can be labelled as healthy. it means no chocolate light. diabetes and obesity, especially in our young people, are a very big challenge throughout europe. it would have been irresponsible to restrict the availability of so much sugar without the consumer knowing and believing that it is healthy. i therefore ask the commission to accelerate the introduction of nutrition profiles for fat, salt and sugar for all health claims, so that they are used in a way that adds value to the consumer. it's a very important step for healthy eating.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats, like the trade union movement, were very critical of the commission's revision, but on the basis of the clarifications and guarantees given by the commission in the final negotiations, we voted in favour of the commission's proposal. the commission now has a heavy responsibility to live up to its promises. the proposal is an acceptable first step, taking into account guarantees that, inter alia, it will be possible to maintain and introduce stricter national requirements. in order to ensure the highest possible level of aviation safety within the eu, it is necessary to carry out impact assessments of the proposal and to continue the dialogue with the workers' organisations.
mr president, the immense tragedy of the syrian people is our common tragedy. member states have to share responsibility. i am proud that sweden has welcomed more than 10 000 refugees in 2013 alone, and we have just granted a permanent permit to all syrians coming from the war and the possibility for family reunification for all children, almost 4 000 of them. but two million people have left syria and there is a need to join forces. only three member states out of 28 are taking in refugees and more solidarity is also needed to support neighbouring countries. we have the instruments – the new asylum package, the asylum support office, frontex border operations – but we need to implement them consistently throughout the european union. only 11 member states support frontex. we need more funding for the resettlement programme. europe is not absent. what happened in lampedusa happened on our common european border. it concerns us all, but more member states need to share more responsibility.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. two weeks ago sweden was shocked by the appalling news that the police had for a number of years kept a register of people of roma origin. the scope is not yet fully established, but it is beyond doubt that it contains several thousand names, and hundreds of them are children, some newborn or a few months old. the revelation has sent shockwaves through sweden and the entire eu. sweden has so far been regarded as a model of independent government and transparency. what has now emerged is that we are facing a major legal scandal. there is no support in swedish legislation for establishing registers based on ethnicity. it is also possible to fear that it violates the eu charter of fundamental rights on several points. there's an investigation going on in sweden. i have asked the commission to look at this very carefully too. once again i stress the importance of the commission actually investigating what has happened. both at national level in sweden and in the eu, we are working on roma integration strategies. all of this falls flat on its face when the police, the very heart of every rule of law, stigmatizes in this way. the stigma varies from country to country, but what is common is that the systematic persecution is present throughout our union. the statement by the french minister of the interior, mr valls, that roma must be expelled from the country, the expulsion of roma from italy and france, the attacks on roma in hungary are just a few examples of the tragically systematic violations. all member states must now respect fundamental freedoms and rights. i have pointed out shortcomings in many member states. today i am painfully and embarrassingly aware that this also applies to my own country.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. for centuries there has been a hatred of the roma, a hatred that has flourished freely in europe. despite the fact that we have passed anti-discrimination laws and reached countless agreements on human rights, authorities and countries are acting reprehensibly against roma - most recently in my own country, sweden. there's a structural repression that seems impossible to get rid of. this is a disgrace to the member states of the european union. an entire population is treated as criminals, discriminated against, registered, deported and forcibly relocated. in sweden, the police have registered almost 5,000 people. it's not about tracking down criminals, it's about artists, politicians, journalists and others who have never committed a crime. there are also over 1,000 children on the register. i am ashamed of what has happened in sweden, but the problem is of course european. i would like to draw particular attention to the vulnerability of women and girls. we fail them by not acting and countering the hatred of the roma. as in the rest of the world, roma women are subjected to violence and restrictions on their right to their own life and their right to their own body. this is not specific to roma women, but the vulnerability makes it so much more serious. however, structural discrimination persists in the eu countries. my own country, sweden, is no exception. it is a discrimination that perpetuates poverty and creates vulnerability, especially for women and girls. i share the commissioner's view that political will is needed in the member states to stop discrimination against roma.
mr president, i would like to thank you. roma are people, citizens and europeans. roma are not to be considered as a group of people, but as women, children and men individuals. the entire swedish people and politicians all over sweden condemn the police records and what has happened and are upset shocked. no one in sweden questions that we fully respect roma and other human rights and freedoms. i therefore welcome this debate, but i am very sorry that the social democrats and other swedes have taken sweden as an example. it's very different. it is not the government, but some within the police individuals who have committed a crime against the swedish law. it is very different when a government wants to expel the roma and restrict their rights or free movement. let me be clear. the swedish minister of justice and the chief of police have publicly apologized and said that it is unacceptable to have a register. there are various ongoing legal investigations, including by the ombudsman and the security and privacy board. we're going to go to the bottom. it's going to be public. those responsible will be held accountable in a judicial system like we have in sweden. registering people by their origin is of course unacceptable and illegal. the investigation will determine everything that has happened, and it will be made public. in sweden, many roma are well integrated. we have many, many measures to improve educational opportunities and job opportunities. we will work together to strengthen these measures and continue to combat all forms of discrimination against roma. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
(blue card) thank you for asking. it gives me the opportunity to make it clear once again that the government did not know about it, that it is certainly not the swedish government that has given the instruction, that the government has been as shocked as everyone else in sweden about what has happened to this register. that is why the swedish government is absolutely determined to get to the bottom of this. they were, as far as we know, individual police officers. we're still investigating the case. this is a forensic investigation. we must let the investigators do their job at last, in accordance with swedish law on human rights and freedoms, the european convention and international conventions. i will tell you and the whole house how it all went down when the investigations are over. the government wasn't involved.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to refer to the situation recently revealed in sweden where the police have knowingly registered people for no other reason than that they are roma. i am sick of the information that has come out. the police have almost 5,000 roma on file. politicians, teachers, authors, and even babies are listed without any criminal suspicion. so people have been registered only because of their ethnicity and because they are roma, and this is the authority that is responsible for investigating hate crimes and making sure that everyone in sweden can feel safe. the registration is both illegal and deeply offensive. it makes me think about the darkest parts of both swedish and european history. in sweden, as has just been said, an investigation is now under way, but the scary thing is that even the police's own top managers have no answer whatsoever to the question of how the register has been used and why it has been created. i demand that the registers be examined thoroughly and that the answers be given as to what registers exist and by whom they have been drawn up. i would also like to hear from the commissioner what she thinks about what is happening in sweden at the moment.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is a tragic fact that extremist parties are on the rise in europe. it has also led to a sad and deeply regrettable contagion effect, as established parties seem to adapt their rhetoric to these extreme groups in order not to lose populist votes. in hungary, it is the conservative fidesz party that continues its crusade, now towards criminalizing the homeless. in france, it is the socialist minister of the interior, valls, who wants to throw out all the roma. the development is frightening to say the least. the eu was created to act as a counterforce against fascism. now that these extreme parties are growing, the foundations of the european union are being threatened, and they are shaking, and they are threatening everything that we have built up since the second world war. the most extreme example is the golden dawn party in greece, where several of its members are now in prison for the murder of an anti-fascist rapper. we must act, we must act together and we must act forcefully to show that democracy and respect for human rights and freedoms are what hold us together and the only way to face the future.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are 26 million unemployed in europe today. it's actually something that has consequences for the values, the moods, the hopes that people can bear or give up. we must see this in what we do in this parliament. if we can contribute by economic decisions, by the way we ourselves act and live, by the way we can support member states and by the way we can put pressure on member states, that will be an important part of the force to counter right-wing extremism. if we ignore mass unemployment, if we ignore the fact that a whole generation of young people is going into the wall, into hopelessness, then right-wing extremism will continue to grow, and then we will have an election for the european parliament quite soon where it will show itself. this parliament, which has so much power today, could have even more right-wing extremists sitting here, even more than those already here. we must do everything we can to combat this.
madam president, the world has been shocked by the revelations from the snowden files. we have learned that the nsa is engaged in industrial espionage against brazil, in political espionage against the political leaders’ meetings, and now they are targeting ordinary citizens all over europe. if this is not enough for the commissioner to agree to suspend the agreement and start a proper investigation, what more has to happen?
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. it's good to see you here, commissioner, back from this terrible tragedy. europe's 3,600 criminal gangs are a threat to our security and our freedom. the geographical boundaries of the country are no longer a barrier. the citizens of the eu know this. in a ranking of crucial issues, the economy and jobs came first, but cross-border crime actually came second. in the committee on organised crime we have put forward a number of concrete proposals to increase cooperation between the countries of the eu. a common definition of organised crime is an important first step. we know that the trade in drugs, people, arms and counterfeit goods brings in hundreds of millions of euros every year. we know that it leads to human tragedy of unimaginable proportions. in these times of economic crisis, we need more than ever to see that these enormous sums are returned to the legal economy. the stockholm programme recognised the need for uniform tools for the collection, processing and exchange of information. this is the basis for effective cooperation in a europe without frontiers. i can see in my own city, where we have had difficult problems, that it is precisely crossborder exchanges that have produced results. in view of this, it is difficult to understand why several member states are so reluctant to recognise the need for increased cooperation and information exchange. the only people who stand to gain from this and the hesitation of the member states are the bad guys, the criminals. i think the problem of speeding up the process is not with the commission. i want to see a stronger european judicial system, a better equipped europol with a clearer mandate and a european prosecutor's office. the eu is the solution to our problems, but then the eu countries must trust each other and work together to stop the bad guys. proportionality, integrity and data sensitivity but not naivety!
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. yes, we know that dictatorships divide their populations into a and b groups, but that democracies and countries which claim to have a democratic structure and democratic values do so is, of course, completely unacceptable. it must also be argued in time and out of time. i do not quite agree with those who say that this is often brought up in relation to the casting process. that countries have within their borders groups that are called untouchable it's terrible! so we know it is. as eva joly said, this is half the population of the eu in terms of size. of course, it is not appropriate to talk about traditions or anything that would be explanatory. there must be real efforts to change things, and we want to see them emphasized with all our might when it comes to trade relations or any kind of relations. i think it is more than a disgust that children and women should be put in a box, almost, you might say, that they cannot get out of, not lift themselves out of. i am very grateful that this question has been raised and that the subject has come up, but let it not just sit here for a while on thursday morning in the european parliament, but let us really push these issues with force. these countries have signed the un declaration of human rights and freedoms. they are brutally betrayed by huge groups in their own countries. it is not a country that should boast of being perfect in these respects, but it is the throwing that we must condemn as completely unacceptable. let us do everything we can to promote human rights and democratic values. we have something to continue to deal with here.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission is also aware of the need to improve the quality of the information provided. i must admit that it is very difficult to add anything new after all that has been said by all these wonderful colleagues here, but i will just highlight one small aspect which i think may be important. this problem exists in several different countries, but i would just like to emphasize the particular vulnerability of dalit women. they make up 16 percent of the total number of women in india. the dalit women are discriminated against on three levels: class, gender and caste. they're poor, they're women, and they're dalits. perhaps even up to 50 percent of the children are not registered at birth. this makes it difficult to protect dalit women from prostitution, trafficking, child labour and forced marriage. violence against dalit women is also very rarely recorded. when that happens, the police and the justice system show a rather limited interest. impunity seems to be very widespread. i believe that the eu and its member states can do much more in these areas by engaging in dialogue with these countries and having programmes linked to these things. i know that you, cecilia malmström, are committed, and i think you will do things, but i think we can do much more. it is extremely important to work with the civil society organisations in these countries, and especially with women's organisations, because they have a lot of experience in this area. we must do everything we can to ensure that caste discrimination does not exist in any single country in any part of this globe.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. cadmium and mercury are two of the highly toxic heavy metals that we're exposed to. finally, finally, what we failed to achieve in 2006 will now become a reality, namely a total ban on these substances in button cells. it's going to be pretty quick, 21 months. it's gonna be hard to get it to work any faster than that. before the end of 2016, we will also phase out this unnecessary exception, which was left in place last time because of the false arguments of the lobbyists. i would like to thank very warmly mr panayotov for his prestigious work on this directive, which has led us all to achieve a result. i am also proud that we are finally making a reality of what i called for last time, namely that battery interchangeability becomes a requirement. it costs 110 euros in belgium today to replace the battery in some well-known companies' products, such as apple, but even samsung is difficult to replace. it is clear that there should be free competition in battery replacement. of course, it should be easy to replace batteries, so that we can recycle products, reuse products and not have to throw away products when they are a few years old just because the battery dies. finally, i would remind the commission that you should have already made a capacity label for disposable batteries in 2009, but i am still waiting! what you buy when you buy a battery is the amount of energy. of course, it should say how much it contains. who would accept to go to the gas station and not know how many liters you are paying for?
mr president, by adopting a common european surveillance system, eurosur, we are giving a concrete answer to tragedies like lampedusa. to strengthen cooperation among member states and the european agency for external border control will increase our capability to save lives, combat cross-border crime and prevent irregular migration. better coordination and sharing of information between member states to detect and intercept unauthorised crossings at external borders will give us the possibility to react more effectively. what is important now to make it work? more member states have to take more responsibility in funding and supporting frontex and in setting up the surveillance contact points as soon as possible. it is not about closing our borders. we do not want ‘fortress europe’. we want to be better able to protect migrants’ lives and avoid tragedies like lampedusa.
in writing. - the responsibility for border controls lies primarily with each member state. this includes the obligation to respond to emergencies at sea. at the same time, we believe that eurosur and a common situational picture could provide support for the member states, not least in coordinating operations at sea and preventing accidents. we swedish social democrats, however, have questions and doubts about frontex and how the organisation works in accordance with fundamental rights. for this reason, we would have liked to see a stronger emphasis in the proposal on the purpose of the eurosur system to be to save lives and on the right to seek asylum. that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. − i abstained on the resolution on the alleged illegal flights and detentions by the cia in european countries because, although it is important that member states seek clarification on and investigate these serious allegations, the recommendations in the report go beyond the principle of subsidiarity. it is up to national authorities and parliaments to investigate and seek clarification on these allegations, in accordance with their own legal systems. investigations are ongoing in the member states concerned and there is no need, in the absence of substantive new developments in the matter, to reiterate direct accusations addressed to individual countries. i believe that the european parliament has an important political role to play in increasing transparency about these sensitive issues and putting pressure on member states to respect fundamental rights and the eu charter of fundamental rights. however, i do not support new eu mechanisms to assess observance of fundamental rights in the member states – effectively making parliament a tribunal of judges.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it's a little strange that we're confusing syria, pakistan and iran -- three different events, three different perpetrators. but no matter what, there is no real reason to attack innocent people who are practicing their religion peacefully. we have often criticized other countries which have in many cases attacked muslims or other religious communities. i am glad that the prime minister of pakistan, nawaz sharif, has condemned the attacks and also that the prime minister of iran, hassan rouhani, has nevertheless called for tolerance and understanding. we must set a good example in europe by showing what tolerance and understanding really mean and by spreading that way of handling conflicts. but this is tragic. i think a lot of people 50 years ago thought that this kind of religiously motivated violence would be off the face of the earth today. it hasn't, but we can't let anger and frustration take over, but we have to reach out and continue to talk and continue to increase understanding, not increase hate. it's the only way forward.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you guys! let me first express my condolences to all the relatives of those who have been affected by the recent sectarian violence in iraq - about a thousand dead in september alone, including the devastating attack on iranian refugees at camp ashraf. this must be condemned. at the same time, we must help to find a way forward. i therefore welcome the statement by the eu's foreign affairs minister, catherine ashton, on the need for reconciliation. the eu must continue to support iraq's economic and social development and human rights and thus the conditions for peace, not least through our partnership and cooperation agreement. tensions between different groups must be reduced and ordinary citizens protected from violence. it is a human right to feel safe in our daily lives. the talks now taking place between the various religious groups and political leaders in iraq must therefore be continued and deepened. the talks are necessary both to resolve the acute crisis and to prevent a development towards civil war, but not least to promote reconciliation, stability and lasting peace.
author. − mr president, the climate negotiations which are looming are crucial. we need success now. they are in our territory – in poland – and they have a responsibility – as we all do – to make them successful. that includes using the long experience the polish have... (interruption by the president) so we have a specific role here in preparing the terrain for the paris 2015 meeting. this can only be successful if the meeting, which was coordinated and called for by ban ki-moon and is scheduled to take place in september next year, is fully prepared. we cannot go to either of those meetings empty-handed. therefore, it is very important that all parties actually carry out their pledges and that these are full of content and meaning. then europe can show the way, by having pledges that will make others believe in our climate policies and that will make others find solutions to their own climate policies and our policies, and that will show the way forward. only then will we be listened to; only then will the polish presidency have a chance to find common ground. our current reduction targets are not consistent with the 2˚ target. the question calls for ambitious 2030 targets for greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewables. we have to do all three. one very efficient policy that we can all successfully implement is phasing out the global carbon subsidies which exist, and we have the pittsburgh g20 agreement to get rid of all those inefficient subsidies. let us start here at home, and let us start now. this would be an effective crisis policy, since wasting money in inefficient technology is ludicrous. this will also spur innovation that could actually help us to implement the new green technology, and it will create the jobs we desperately need. this is not creating new problems but solving old ones. one of the most important things here is also the instruction to ‘mind the gap’. anyone who has been on the london underground has heard a voice saying ‘mind the gap’. it is warning us about a few centimetres – or inches, as some would say – when we get onto the train. but as regards this trip to save the world and the climate, not even an olympic gold-medallist in the long jump could jump the gap between what we need to do and current policies. it is not only in europe, it is all over the world, and we have a responsibility to show the way and lead the way. we should be world champions in minding, fixing and solving the gap. but we also need to be helpful to our neighbours who are less fortunate. there is a swedish cartoon for children called bamse. he is a strong bear who says that if you are strong, you must be kind. let us be kind to our neighbours. let us be kind to all the people who have not been fortunate enough to have enough resources. let us not allow our crisis to stop what we have promised for so many years. it is a shame that we have 0.29 % in oda instead of 0.7 %. that needs to be fixed. otherwise we will not have the alliance with developing countries that we need to make future meetings a success. we also have an internal problem. we – the members of the european parliament – see ourselves as being able to help make warsaw a success. we would also like to make sure that we have access to the eu coordinator meetings so that we can be involved in all the issues that we need to fix. we wish the polish good luck. we need to provide them with the instruments they need to have that luck. we cannot let the ets become an ever-larger failure. we need to fix it and make sure it works. we need to get over the backloading dilemma. we also need to pass ambitious co2 emissions requirements for cars and lcvs and to make sure they are implemented. these are necessary steps for us to come with credible baggage to warsaw.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to agree with what the other speaker has said, namely that the warsaw meeting will be very important. as long as we are constantly chasing down an underdog to reach the goals we have set, every climate summit is of tremendous importance. it's a battle with the clock, a battle with time. i think we should have high, positive expectations of what's going to happen in warsaw. going there and just looking at the list of lobbyists we're worried about disrupting order is not the right attitude. i assume warsaw will surprise us. it has to be our attitude. then there's the gloomy news of climate change. we got a report from the un climate panel that also shows that the trend is still going in the wrong direction. we need to do more. at the same time, we are also informed that the green fund is actually on its way to being realised, the one that will mean that we can invest in the poor parts of the world. a mixture of optimism and hard arguments, i think we should have. we have to redo a lot of things. the emissions trading act, for example, needs to work better. we need to use climate change as a competitive tool. we can't compete with other parts of the world unless we get better at climate resilience. i think it should be in the center.
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite the lack of acceptance of science by colleagues up there, the new ipcc report shows that climate change is indeed another result of human activity. our success story here in the north is the result of gigantic emissions and a religious belief in constant economic growth. the rich world therefore owes a historic debt to the south. the majority of the world's poor women are from the south, and they're going to be hit particularly hard by this. according to the un, approximately 50­80% of agriculture in developing countries is carried out by women, in africa the figure is 90%. increased drought results in lost harvests, which results in lost income and thus reduces women's power in the family and in society. there are a number of similar examples. so climate change is having a devastating effect in countries where women's power is already small. climate change doesn't happen overnight, it's a long process, but it's affecting millions of women and men already today. in warsaw, therefore, the eu must acknowledge that we have a historic debt, we in the west, that there must always be a gender perspective in the negotiations and that climate adaptation is a necessary measure. it would be incredibly liberating if the eu also stopped treating growth as a religion.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank mrs estrela for a very, very good report. the report takes as its starting point the fact that it is the woman who always has the right to decide about her own body. if this report is adopted, it will send a very strong signal that the right to one's own body is a fundamental principle of the european parliament. the report makes four good points: first, the right to one's own sexuality, regardless of sexual orientation. secondly, the freedom of a woman to decide whether or not to have an abortion. thirdly, the importance of access to contraceptives. fourth, there must be a sex education worthy of the name. for millennia, men have tried to control women's bodies and women's sexuality, but we're actually living in the 21st century, and i think it's really time to take that control away.
on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − mr president, the procedure started when mayotte had a referendum and then decided to change status. then the commission made the proposal to adapt certain rules to the new status. it chose the correct legal basis based on the different directives’ original legal bases. we have three in environment, one in agriculture and also the coming fishery ones. adaptations were required in all those cases, mostly to give mayotte more time. however, the council approved the correct legal basis and chose a special route in the treaty in 355. that means that it is a council decision, taking away the prerogative of parliament to have the ordinary legislative procedure, thereby undermining what is given to us in the treaty and the power that is conferred to us in the treaty. therefore, we would like to protest against changing the legal basis. we sought advice from the committee on legal affairs and they came to exactly the same conclusion as our legal service, namely that the correct legal basis is what the commission proposed – that it should be a normal legislative procedure. we need to take a quick decision. if we want to follow the normal procedure, i would urge the council to withdraw its legal basis and to accept the commission’s legal basis. then we, as a parliament, could take our responsibility and quickly vote through these measures, because they will need to take effect on 1 january 2014. however, we cannot accept them changing the legal basis and taking the power so that we are only consulted. in that case, we would have to take them to the court. so our recommendation would be to take the council to the court if they do not change the legal basis. we should, therefore, vote ‘minus’ on all three if you agree with what the committee on the environment, public health and food safety wants to do. to the council, which is not even present here today, i would like to say ‘nice try, but no thanks’.
madam president, i can be really brief. this is coming back to us after successful conclusion of the negotiations, and i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, and also the commission for its assistance in facilitating this deal, which actually places demands on facilities so that the practice known as ‘beaching’ is not possible any more, and that is a great step forward.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i just have to say that it's an incredibly strange situation we've been through here. as chair of the committee on gender equality, i am very upset to hear that there is no majority on the committee. there is of course a majority, otherwise this report would not be in this house. to just postpone this decision is just to do everything we can to not make decisions. i have the floor! i have the floor! it's very strange. it will not mean anything in the final result, because we will still have the same majority in the committee. what do you want us to do in the committee? we have the same majority in the committee now as we will have tomorrow, as we had yesterday.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'in vitro diagnostic medical devices' (ivds). people should be able to trust that products on the market are properly tested and safe. patient safety and public health require that the eu regulatory framework reflect the rapid pace of market developments. the current regulatory framework is outdated and has not been renewed since the 1990s. this has led to wide differences in national regulatory frameworks between member states and uncertainty about the rules for certain products. we support improving transparency and dissemination of information on ivds. for us, the most important thing is to protect the health of our patients. we particularly welcome the classification system introduced for ivds, as it also harmonizes well with the eu's general medical device regulatory framework. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'medical device' in the definition of a medical device. people should be able to trust that products on the market are properly tested and safe. patient safety and public health require that the eu regulatory framework reflect the rapid pace of market developments. the current regulatory framework is outdated and has not been renewed since the mid-1990s. this has led to wide differences in national regulatory frameworks between member states and uncertainty about the rules for certain products. in view of this, we support the inclusion of specifically identified high-risk products with an indirect medical function in the medical regulatory framework. although we generally call for caution in broadening the definition of medical devices, we believe that in this case it is justified. for us, the most important thing is to protect the health of our patients. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic medical records. however, any prohibition of dangerous substances should be based on a scientific benefit/risk analysis at the level of the authorities. not by political decisions and a zero-risk vision. the consequence of the european parliament's decision will be that dangerous substances will be phased out immediately, unless there are technical or safety constraints that make this impossible. in such cases, the european commission and the european parliament shall decide on the derogation for a maximum of four years. we see major problems with this, both in terms of the functioning of the products, their safety and their cost.
in writing. − we swedish social democrats welcome the report's focus on adult education and lifelong learning, as this perspective is missing from the commission's communication a new vision for education: investing in skills to achieve better socioeconomic outcomes (com (2012) 669). we share the view that synergies between the education sector and the labour market should be developed to match skills with demand and to facilitate the transition between study and work. however, as regards the writings on the participation of industry in the financing and planning and delivery of education, we would like to emphasise the value of the integrity and independence of education.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on a new approach to education. we are, however, opposed to support mechanisms for failed business start-ups, as this distorts competition and disrupts sound market economy mechanisms. we oppose further support for eu programmes in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and guarantees that the european social fund (esf) will receive a share of at least 25% of the cohesion policy budget, social policy is a national competence. we do not agree that the financial instruments of cohesion policy should be used as a means of supporting member states in implementing the eu youth strategy, as any funding should be at national level.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the only way to fight organized crime is an alliance between honest authorities and honest citizens. as long as too many people are looking for cheap cigarettes without asking where they come from, looking for better odds on illegal gambling sites or handing over environmentally hazardous waste cheaply without asking questions, organized crime is being fed with money. some of the measures here are pretty ineffective. a european public prosecutor, a common criminal law, what good does that do? it doesn't attack the underlying causes. or privacy-infringing legislation like the eu-pnr or swift. there are also good proposals in this and that is the lobby register, that we should have it in the countries as well, and ethical rules for politicians and government and that campaign contributions should be regulated much more strictly than today - in my own country it is not regulated at all - and that the revolving doors must be reviewed. that's a good start. there are also other good texts on goalkeepers and the like, but we must have a contract with the citizens to put an end to this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in europe today there are 3 600 criminal gangs, and the trade in drugs, people, arms and counterfeit goods brings in hundreds of millions of euros, if not more, every year. the citizens of the eu know this. it is difficult to say what it is like in this house. they rank the threat of organised crime as the eu's second greatest challenge. the treaty of lisbon strengthened europol's mandate, but that is not enough. the united states has 300 million inhabitants and here on this continent within the european union we have 508 million inhabitants. the fbi in the united states has about 34,000 employees. europol, which i visited last week, has only 750. this is not acceptable. further strengthening europol by establishing a european prosecutor and, in the long term, a european fbi is therefore absolutely necessary. the advance of criminals across open borders threatens one of the eu's greatest achievements: free movement. we have heard mr zijlstra here as living proof; he is keen to build borders. i hope this house will make us break boundaries instead.
madam president, the eastern partnership is important for economic development, and for democracy and the rule of law in our neighbourhood. that is why the door is open and must remain open. that applies to ukraine, which needs to take determined action regarding selective justice. that applies to georgia, where i regret that the prime minister of georgia has accused the opposition in the country of bribing members of this parliament, accusing them of illegal action. this is not the first time. the opposition is also threatened with legal action. that is not the way you defend the rule of law, and that is why we see the pre-trial detentions. i think it is our duty to react to that: to be open to georgia but to be strict regarding how they apply the rule of law and democracy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu's neighbourhood policy is our main instrument for strengthening the partnership between ourselves and our neighbours, for building and consolidating healthy democracies and for pursuing sustainable growth. this is particularly true now that our partners in the east are under extreme pressure from russia and our partners in the south from a still unstable democratization. the pillars are democracy, human rights and the rule of law. unfortunately, there are some aspects which we often miss, and i am glad that the committee has accepted some of my amendments. i'm thinking about equality between men and women. a thorough gender analysis should always be included in the progress reports. societies that embrace the capacities of all - women and men - simply function better. i think about unresolved conflicts. the resolution calls on morocco, the polisario and algeria, among others, to continue to seek a just and peaceful solution to the conflict in western sahara, a solution which respects un resolutions, in particular the right to self-determination. i am thinking of workers' rights and the important role that social partners and other organisations can play. here i am pleased that the resolution emphasises the crucial role of civil society in transition and reform processes. if the eu is to strengthen cooperation with civil society in neighbouring countries and support people's movements, we also need to defend our various funding instruments in the budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. taxpayers' money should be used for the public good. i think everyone in this room agrees. the question we are voting on tomorrow is whether this money should be used for data collection, monitoring and implementation of the excellent cfp that we adopted here in the house six months ago or whether we should start handing out blank cheques to fishermen. among the proposals we have are €100,000 for business transfer, we have another €100,000 for start-up grants. add to that €80,000 for new construction aid and a little more for replacing engines. i do not think that the taxpayers of europe think that this is money well spent. europe is in a deep economic crisis. at the same time, we have a sea in crisis and we must now ensure that the development of europe's seas, including the fishing industry, is reversed so that it is sustainable in the long term.
mr president, colleagues, dear commissioner, as the responsible vice-president of the s&d group, i am happy to announce that our group tonight voted – with a large majority – in favour of the position of our shadow rapporteur, guido milana. i want to thank him for his good work. this was particularly important in respect of subsidies for fleet renewal. subsidies for vessel construction, as the commissioner mentioned, were abolished more than ten years ago. to reintroduce them now would be completely contradictory to the fisheries reform, and the s&d group will not support that. if we can avoid such mistakes, we are now close to having a sustainable fisheries reform based on three pillars: a regulation based on sustainability criteria; a fisheries fund used to support fish rather than boats, which is also necessary for future fishermen; and a fisheries agreement with mauritania that should become a model for coming agreements. together this is a major achievement, for the future of which we as a parliament can be truly proud.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we vote on the eu fisheries fund, it is important to remember the principles of sustainable fisheries that we agreed earlier this year. in february we voted on the rules for fishing and now we are going to vote on the tax money that goes to fisheries. i have a simple principle which i think is important to bear in mind, namely that we must be careful with taxpayers' money. in the long term, the fishing industry must be able to stand on its own feet. that is why the fisheries rules we decided in february are very important. only when stocks are built up will the competitiveness of the fishing industry improve and profitability increase and then the need for subsidies will end in the long term. but until then it is very important that the subsidies we have and the measures and activities we have under the fisheries fund do not maintain or increase the capacity of the european fishing fleet. that is why i am very critical of proposals for new construction, engine replacement, support for young fishermen taking over a vessel, etc. i am afraid that this could risk maintaining fishing capacity and thus affecting the profitability of the fishing industry in the long run. that is why i believe that restraint in voting tomorrow is the best way to ensure that we have fish on our plates and in our seas.
madam president, the electronic link between the amendments to the budget did not work in the system when we prepared the vote today. only having paper copies makes it extremely difficult to find the right amendment corresponding to the right vote in the budget, since they are not in numerical order. in future, i would very much appreciate it if parliament could have two sets of amendments: one in numerical order and one in the current order. otherwise it is almost impossible for anybody not on the committee on budgets quickly to find each vote linked to each amendment.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. politics begins and ends on the streets or, as in this case, on international waters. the detention by russia of peaceful non-violent activists from an international environmental organisation in international waters is a threat to democracy, a threat to freedom of expression and a threat to the right to demonstrate. on monday we discussed in this house the forthcoming cop in poland, and expectations of that meeting seem almost non-existent, perhaps because we have not lived up to the standards that can be expected in international environmental negotiations. that's why we need organizations like greenpeace that continue to act, to shine a light and to fight for our nature and the rights of future generations. the illegal imprisonment of greenpeace activists has caused a lot of international uproar, and the netherlands is a good example of how to act. i think we need to be much more clear about this criticism. it is our democratic duty to demand the release of these greenpeace activists.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur and the commissioner. i think it is striking that the sector we are discussing today is, on the one hand, characterised by extremely complex and slow administrative procedures and, on the other hand, that there are extremely rapid and dynamic developments in it. that means that we need to look ahead to the coming ten years more than we need to look back over the last five or three years. secondly – and this is crucial – we need to fight fragmentation. it is a paradox that, in these varying mobile and global markets, we in the european union have more fragmentation than in nearly any other sector of our economy. i think we need to focus on opportunities for achieving transnational european markets, transnational operators, and the benefits for consumers of having those. i think it is fair to say that here we have the impact assessment of reality – not from any bureaucratic department or division, but we have the impact assessment from reality, because the reality is that europe is lagging behind. it is of crucial importance for us to speed up, because otherwise we will lag behind more and more. the things we do not do today will mean that we lag behind even more tomorrow. that is why we need to ensure that we can deal with difficult spectrum issues, the 700 mhz band, and the transnational perspective. we need to ensure that we in europe can have the highest speeds, not the old-fashioned speeds of the digital agenda. we need to be better than that, and we need to make use of the fact that we now have a recovery. no other area provides such good investment and competitiveness as these telecom sectors. that will help society as a whole. that is what we have a duty to achieve.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to ask the same question as jens rohde: why are these proposals coming now? these were actually issues that we discussed when commissioner kroes was elected as commissioner and we members of parliament asked tough questions about which programme she was going to work on. now, at the last minute of the term, the proposals come. they are also combined with enormous expectations. with the telecommunications market we are going to fight unemployment, we are going to fight the crisis, we are going to tackle youth unemployment, and we are also going to do very good for consumers. i feel that it is like a giant mountain that someone has pushed in front of them until we are at the very end of a term. it may well be that the blame should not be laid on commissioner kroes but on other parts of the commission. in any case, we need to have reasonable expectations and a reasonable view of where we are. there are three different markets within the eu: a northern telecommunications market, a - let me call it - central european market and a southern market. you have to admit they're there. it must be the guiding principle for the proposals which are then tried to be implemented. you don't start from scratch. it requires careful analysis, it requires transparency, it requires thoughtfulness and that is what i lack in this work. however, the ultimate consumer benefit is the most important. i shall be following with open eyes the proposals that are likely to be put forward.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner, mr minister, there was a heated debate in the budget committee this week regarding amending budget no 6. let me, however, emphasise that nobody objected to the contents, which are merely a technical update of the figures for 2013 own resources, bni contributions, rebates, etc. the debate instead concerned the procedure, the very sudden adoption by the council and the equally sudden proposal from the commission that this must be introduced on this week’s agenda. the background is, of course, the commission’s acute cash-flow problem and the inability to pay outstanding bills. this has, unfortunately, been caused not by the commission, as suggested by some conservative members of the budget committee, but by the member states and their constant under-budgeting of payments. amending budget no 6, however, has nothing to do with a lack of payment appropriations. it is only an update of the figures for revenue to be paid by the member states, but it has an effect on cash-flow. to avoid any suspicion that the council in this situation would take the adoption of amending budget no 6 as an argument for delaying and not adopting amending budget no 8, my group has tabled an amendment in order to link the adoption of amending budget no 6 with amending budget no 8. the wording needs a minor adjustment, which i will introduce as an oral amedment at the vote. for this reason, to avoid further misunderstandings, i thank the presidency and especially minister rimkūnas for having made things clear here and for having confirmed that the council will, as one of the remaining conditions, adopt amending budget no 8 in time for this parliament to give its consent to the mff in november, thereby preventing another budget crisis. i hope now that nothing can change that promise.
mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, i have a small oral amendment. we need to delete the words ‘in full’ twice in this text to avoid misunderstanding, as there may be a minor technical correction of the figures. so the oral amendment is to delete the words ‘in full’ both in the middle of the amendment and at the end.
in writing. - we believe that rural development is a very important part of the eu budget. however, we are convinced that both agricultural and export aid must be reduced in favour of areas which can create growth and jobs, such as research and development programmes, erasmus and the social fund. we also welcome a reduction in funding for iter and similar energy programmes to better combat youth unemployment and to fund humanitarian aid to crisis-affected countries. we also believe that it is important to make the eu's administrative expenditure more efficient and to reduce it, which is why we welcome the budgets of the eu institutions that are below the rate of inflation. in this context, we also welcome the requirement of a single seat for the european parliament, brussels or strasbourg, which would in the long term bring considerable savings compared to today. finally, we would like to stress that the work of making further savings in the eu budget must continue.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we have therefore voted for greater transparency in the use of european parliament funds and for reduced representation costs for the european parliament and the european commission, because it is important to clean up your own front door. we have also voted against the tobacco subsidies and the export refunds for live animals, as usual, and we agree that further budget cuts can be made to the extent that the council is now calling for. but we believe that these cuts must be made more strategically than the council obviously has the political courage to do. the council's model of using 'the cheese wheel instead of the pie crust' is in practice the same cutting in areas important for europe's development, such as investment in research and entrepreneurship, as in agricultural aid. it is not the best use of eu funds. in order to force clearer priorities on the cuts, we have therefore chosen, as a negotiating position for the final vote in december, not to vote against the european parliament's resolution this time. instead, we chose to withdraw in the end.
in writing. - we stress the importance of reducing and eventually eliminating eu subsidies to the fishing industry. the new general framework for fisheries aims to restore stocks in the long term, thereby increasing the profitability of the fisheries sector. the pressure to abolish fisheries subsidies is growing. we regret that the european parliament supported capacity-building aid for, among other things, engine replacement, temporary standstill, start-up aid and storage aid. however, as the aid for data collection and control measures is being doubled and the aid for new construction was voted out of the proposal, we decided to support the reform. however, our basic position is that taxpayers' money should not go to this kind of industrial subsidies.
in writing. − we believe that it is justified to review the eu's climate objectives for the period ahead, not least to strengthen emissions trading. sweden and the eu have a successful climate policy that has gradually reduced greenhouse gas emissions. sweden's emissions are now 20% lower than in 1990, and the eu accounts for 10% of global emissions. meanwhile, much of the world is doing nothing to reduce emissions. global emissions have increased by 50 percent since 1990. if the world is to achieve the two-degree target, it is not enough for sweden and the eu to act, other countries must take their share of responsibility. the eu's strategy for this has been a conditional 30% emissions target by 2020 if the rest of the world raises its ambitions. it hasn't worked. the eu must set higher standards for other parts of the world, not just go ahead and hope that others will follow. a first step is to require all countries to report the latest emissions figures. this should be a basic requirement in international negotiations. we note with concern the growing voices for the introduction of co2 tariffs at the eu's borders. it is the wrong way to go, and would have devastating consequences for the environment, trade, growth and development.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the final report with a view to combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the eu. increased cooperation at national, european and international level is essential to prevent, investigate and prosecute cross-border crime. however, we could not support all the elements of the report, such as 1) making it a crime to be part of a criminal organisation, as this does not exist in swedish law, 2) a common corporate taxation in the eu, and 3) a european prosecutor's office and its powers, which are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. we believe that there is no 'one size fits all' solution to fight organised crime and that we must respect the different legal systems and traditions that exist in the eu. at the same time, it is important to encourage member states to increase cooperation and the exchange of good practices in the fight against cross-border crime and corruption.
in writing. - i have abstained on the vote on the iacolino report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it is of the utmost importance to combat organised crime effectively. the report also contains many important and positive proposals. but since the report unfortunately advocates the need to harmonize criminal law and calls for a union based on an increasingly common economic, fiscal and budgetary policy, i shall abstain. there are also other elements in the paragraphs which target terrorism, which could lead to restrictions on basic civil rights. fighting terrorism in all its forms is important, but the last decade has shown that a fight against terrorism that is not based on democratic principles is counterproductive. that is why i also choose to abstain.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the final report with a view to combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the eu. we believe that there is no 'one size fits all' solution to fight organised crime and that we must respect the different legal systems and traditions that exist in the eu. at the same time, it is important to encourage member states to increase cooperation and the exchange of good practices in the fight against cross-border crime and corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion because, although our own group resolution calls for an immediate termination of the agreement, we support a call for suspension in a first instance to already send a strong message to the united states related to the nsa data-snooping revelations. i wish to reiterate that we have never supported the tftp agreement, due to the in-built flaws which make bulk data exchange possible, even before the nsa revelations were made.
in writing. - we support the consolidation and revision of the eu radiation protection directive. however, we see no reason to change the legal basis of the treaty on the functioning of the union, but believe that it should continue to be the euratom treaty.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of amendment 6 to the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the cfsp because the amendment stresses that international trade needs to be based on social rights and standards on health, environment and labour conditions. in addition, the amendment stresses the importance of including a broad range of stakeholders in international trade negotiations which i support. however, my support for amendment 6 does not mean that i support the eu-us ttip-negotiations. nor do i believe that ttip will bring growth and welfare to ordinary citizens – or that ttip should serve as a trade model for other regions and global actors.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? as rapporteur for the committee on budgets, i would have liked more appropriations for infrastructure, because europe today needs productive investment more than anything else. we are glad, however, that we have been able to defend an increase, albeit an insufficient one. the committee on budgets believes that in order to get more out of the eu's efforts despite the cuts, we must use the money more efficiently. we must, among other things, provide support to those member states which do not have the expertise and administrative capacity to benefit seriously from the aid. we are also convinced that in these times of budgetary problems and banking constraints, new innovative financial instruments such as project bonds will become increasingly important. if we can get investors, such as pension funds, who are not usually keen to invest in infrastructure, to do so anyway, with guarantees from the eu budget, then this can make a crucial contribution to maintaining a reasonable level of investment despite the cuts.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to all those who have negotiated, not least to mr kalfin, who has had to bear the heaviest burden of this negotiation. it has been difficult because of the economic crisis but even more, i would argue, because a number of governments have only prioritized their own national interests, and this is particularly true of a number of richer net-paying countries. but budget cuts don't benefit those who really need help, because they're the net beneficiaries. the european parliament has tried to stand on two feet, respecting the economic difficulties of the member states but also taking responsibility for the future functioning of the eu. why did we then reject the council's decision in february, despite the unrelenting pressure from the member states to simply accept their decision outright? there is a crucial reason: it was a bad deal in the council. we have not succeeded in changing the level of budgetary burden but we have made a number of improvements which can have a great impact in practice. i am thinking above all of flexibility. the current outdated rules have meant that a large part of the budget has never been used, but we are changing that now. i am thinking of political priorities; we have moved resources forward for youth unemployment, for research and so on. in addition, we have acquired an opportunity to renegotiate mid-term. this makes for a very good deal. i'm not going to love it, but it's so good that i recommend a yes vote.
blue-card question. – ms helga trüpel is talking about missed chances. the question is not what the member states could have done – i agree they should have done much more – but whether parliament in this situation can accomplish all the things ms trüpel is asking for by voting ‘no’? my answer is no, it cannot. i am an old trade unionist and i know that there is no way you can win a fight over wages in an economic crisis. it is the same thing here: to throw europe into a budget crisis in this situation would not improve matters. let us come back through the mid-term review; today we would only make things worse by creating a budget crisis – that is for sure.
in writing. - i voted against the budgetary framework. it is good that we are freezing expenditure and showing greater budgetary responsibility and socioeconomic thinking. i fully support this approach. but europe is in the throes of the deepest economic and social crisis since the end of the second world war. mass unemployment, poverty and growing social problems have put several eu countries in a humanitarian crisis that particularly affects women. this development also threatens democracy. neither the multiannual budgetary plan nor the eu's current market-liberal policy presents a way out of the crisis. as usual, gender equality and aid are being undermined while the budget for military projects is increasing. climate change is also being ignored with large investments in highways and fossil energy. the large agricultural policy item is also directly unfriendly to the environment. the large subsidies, which go mainly to large-scale industrialised farms, are also leading to the exclusion of both european small farms and farms in the south where subsidised products can be sold at dumped prices. these are the main reasons why i voted against the financial framework.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. but i cannot support a budget that still has all the bad parts intact. a large part of the structural funds supports the construction of motorways, and the eu still invests large sums in projects with inoperative fusion power rather than putting the money into developing renewable energy sources. the agricultural policy still contains far too much direct aid, and in addition the new agricultural reform will allow money to be moved (15-25%) from the rural programme to the direct aid programme, which gives even more money to direct aid. there is also the possibility of export subsidies for agricultural products, a measure that hits hard at poor developing countries and which the eu has promised to end in 2013. a promise that has not been kept! in an economic crisis, the eu could have reallocated scarce resources to invest in the future, research, energy efficiency and investments in and for our young people. unfortunately, this was a missed opportunity.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. but i cannot support a budget that still has all the bad parts intact. a large part of the structural funds supports the construction of motorways, and the eu still invests large sums in the project of inoperative fusion power instead of putting the money into developing renewable energy sources. the agricultural policy still contains far too much direct aid, and in addition the new agricultural reform will allow for the transfer of money (15-25%) from the rural programme to the direct aid programme, which will provide even more money for direct aid. there is also the possibility of export subsidies for agricultural products, a measure that hits hard at poor developing countries and which the eu has promised to end in 2013. a promise that has not been kept! in an economic crisis, the eu could have reallocated scarce resources to invest in the future, research, energy efficiency and investing in and for our young people. unfortunately, this was a missed opportunity.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the main cause of the widespread crisis, mass unemployment and poverty in the eu is the liberal market policy, in which the interests of banking and finance capital are at the centre. ordinary people, especially women, are being hit hard by the crisis, which has been deepened by the functioning of emu, where the single currency does not, among other things, allow the countries in crisis to devalue. more money for the social fund will in no way solve the deep crisis. change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. - i voted for the report. i am doing so in order to provide the workers in this case with financial support for retraining and/or other measures to find new jobs. however, i would like to emphasize that the main problem with regard to the high level of unemployment in the eu is the austerity policies advocated by the european commission and decided by the governments of the member states, which hit women particularly hard. to create new jobs in europe, a new economic policy with massive public and environmentally friendly investments is needed. investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
in writing. - parliament voted in november on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the fund as a rule. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it will therefore exist for the foreseeable future. so it is a matter of making the best of the situation. to benefit from the fund, applicants must meet very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures. that is why i voted in favour of the report. it does not change my view that the creation of the fund was more than debatable and that it should be dismantled. europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term. but now the situation is such that the fund exists, and it is on this basis that we must act.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on the erasmus programme. the left party is extremely positive about exchange programmes which, among other things, have led to and are leading to important cross-border understanding and knowledge. unfortunately, we see that there are problems with lumping all the programmes together under one umbrella and also that the system now tends to acquire a certain unnecessary supranationality.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on the creation of 'erasmus for all', the union's programme for education, training, youth and sport. however, we do not support the creation of a european loan guarantee for erasmus master students, as we believe that this is a national competence and not something that the eu should be concerned with or allocate funds to.
in writing. i chose to abstain in the final vote. although the creative europe programme contains many important issues of cultural diversity and cultural development, i see that there is also a federalist approach and unnecessary detailed management. i also think that too much is being invested in the market adaptation of culture and that it is unfortunate that it is linked to horizon 2020. a free and growing culture is more than the number of jobs, and i chose to abstain.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the aim of this programme is to 'strengthen remembrance and increase citizens' involvement at union level'. for me, this is another attempt by the eu to try to impose a sense of union citizenship through propaganda. but feelings of belonging across borders cannot be forced, and certainly not by propaganda/educational programmes. real cohesion is built in people's encounters with each other, through joint work and mutual solidarity across borders.
in writing. - the ten-t report is complex. this is a huge infrastructure project, covering all modes of transport, which aims to link the eu. it has been a directive which has now become a regulation, giving the eu the power to govern in detail. on the other hand, there is a strong focus on extending and connecting railways within the eu. that is why i chose not to vote on the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste, which is a key element in the protection of the environment. if the report had been linked to a settlement, i could have supported the proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a former mayor of northern sweden, after two years in the european parliament, i can say that the local and regional level has very good friends in the european parliament, as well as in the commission, with commissioner johannes hahn at the head. what is needed to achieve the eu 2020 targets is a lot of committed people from civil society, business, municipalities and regions working locally to create the growth that this tool actually gives us. i think we also have to look at two other things that are very good about the decision we make tomorrow. the first is that we have created the conditions for simplification and efficiency in work and the second is the principle of partnership. on these two issues - that we are simplifying and that the member states must have a dialogue with the local and regional level and other stakeholders - we must, together, the european parliament and the commission, keep a close eye on the member states to ensure that they do the right thing on these two issues.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think the most important progress made in these negotiations is that the structural funds will now seriously become investment funds. the swedish eu minister once called cohesion policy the policy of the 1950s. she was probably thinking of the time when old mining and shipyard regions were given support. it was wrong then, but it's gonna be even more wrong in the future. because now we are supposed to use the funds as instruments to implement eu policies on innovation, infrastructure, climate action, energy efficiency. it is not the policy of the 1950s, but rather the instrument of the policy of the future. in many regions, eu investment is crucial for jobs and growth, especially now that the crisis has left banks unable to lend and public budgets are being cut. the eu's investment is crucial, and that is what the funds are intended to do in the future.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tabled an opinion. - gender equality is basically about giving women and men equal opportunities to influence society. it's about power. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we stated that the eu must take bold legislative action to achieve this objective. the committee therefore shares the commission's view. shared responsibility in company boardrooms leads to better decisions. the right to property is also an important principle that must be respected, and here is a problem. companies in the financial sector have a higher proportion of women on their boards compared to other sectors. however, one third of the boards of directors in this sector have no female board members. i am pleased to have received support for my proposal to extend the scope of directives to the eu and its institutions, including the ecb the european central bank. the eu institutions must set a good example; we cannot ask others to do what we cannot do ourselves. finally, we need men, that is, me and other men, to be at home more with our children, and more women must be given more power in the boards of publicly traded companies.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a picture of what the boardrooms of europe look like today. in the largest listed companies in the eu, 17% of board members are women. if we talk about the chairmen of the board, they're 96% male. in sweden, there are more men named johan than women in the ceo positions of listed companies. the development is too slow and the thick glass ceiling has consistently kept women out of the top jobs. this is a waste of not only expertise but also money. studies show that companies with the highest proportion of women on their boards have better financial performance than companies without female board representation. opponents of the directive say we must protect private property rights, but important parts of company law already rest on eu directives. in addition, the largest companies in the eu operate across borders in the single market. it is therefore both reasonable and logical that these companies have the same rules of the game. at the vote tomorrow, we have the opportunity to make the first crack in the glass ceiling. together, we can break it. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, tomorrow we will probably pass this proposal on gender quotas in company boards. we will do so on the basis of a proposal from a committee of 19 men and 9 women, and here in the european parliament we are 70% men and 30% women. the european central bank, where we actually had some influence, seems to be the closest thing to its saudi counterpart in terms of representation of women, because not a single woman sits on its board. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. this is nothing but a great hypocrisy. i assume that all members, especially those in the s&d and epp who are going to vote for this proposal tomorrow, will likewise be in favour of quotas for lists to the european parliament as well as to their own party boards at home in their member states and other bodies where parties appoint officers. it's gonna be very exciting to watch. or is it that it's much easier to demand equality from others than to fix it at home? there's a lot of cleaning up to do in your own backyard. i would stress that the proposal rests on an extremely shaky and fragile legal basis. its european added value is virtually non-existent. this is the prototype of a matter where each member state should legislate on its own because our countries' cultures are very different. in the process, i have worked with pragmatically minded colleagues such as olle schmidt at econ to try to bring about a reasonable regulatory framework such as the danish comply or explain legislation. unfortunately, the majority have chosen something else. i'm sorry about that. mr president, i have noted with increasing surprise that the conservative and social democratic groups have shown no interest in having a constructive dialogue on this. now it's going to be quotas, and i'm sorry. men should be where the children and the old are, and women where the money and the power and the legislation are. that is not what this proposal will achieve.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as for the whole package, there is one small detail that i think will have a huge impact on the future and it is perhaps the smallest detail that is the most controversial. it's the organic tree. in fact, it doesn't matter if we have three, five, seven or 10 percent, what matters is that we create corridors in the farming landscape where the ecological system services can flourish. the second thing i am very happy about is the concept of 'active farmer', although it has been rather washed out. secondly, i would like to thank my colleagues who have worked on the rural development regulation. i think we've done a very good job. i think pillar 2 of the rural programme is very good; it reflects the endless cultural and biological diversity that the european countryside faces. the conditions are so varied, of course: in that programme there is freedom to make adjustments to local national conditions, but there is also a little danger that it could lead to the re-nationalisation of large parts of agricultural policy. finally, i would like to say that i am disappointed with the funding. i am disappointed that so much continues to go to direct direct aid and so little to payment for environmental services. my personal dream is to have an agricultural policy where farmers are paid for their environmental services and where it is even profitable to stand up for our collective interests.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? i would like to explain that this report has been much debated in committee and the vote in committee was against my report, but we have received promises from the commission that the shortcomings in this agreement which are pointed out in the report will be corrected and that the eu and kiribati will respect the rules which apply in the pacific region.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the main cause of the widespread crisis, mass unemployment and poverty in the eu and in cyprus is the policy of market liberalisation, in which the interests of banking and finance capital are at the centre. the crisis has been seriously aggravated by the functioning of emu, where the single currency, among other things, prevents the countries in crisis from devaluing. the structural funds programmes do nothing to solve the deep crisis; change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. - i have voted on all the reports. all these funds are part of the eu's strategy to increase the centralisation of power to the union and to increase its integration. a federalist plan that i'm opposed to. the reports also show that the funds are guided by the essentially neoliberal europe 2020 strategy. a political line i oppose. i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds. in the current economic crisis, it is claimed that the funds could help bring about change. it is an illusion. real change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. - i have voted on all the reports. all these funds are part of the eu's strategy to increase the centralisation of power to the union and to increase its integration. a federalist plan that i'm opposed to. the reports also show that the funds are guided by the essentially neoliberal europe 2020 strategy. a political line i oppose. i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds. in the current economic crisis, it is claimed that the funds could help bring about change. it is an illusion. real change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. - i have voted on all the reports. all these funds are part of the eu's strategy to increase the centralisation of power to the union and to increase its integration. a federalist plan that i'm opposed to. the reports also show that the funds are guided by the essentially neoliberal europe 2020 strategy. a political line i oppose. i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds. in the current economic crisis, it is claimed that the funds could help bring about change. it is an illusion. real change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
in writing. - i have voted on all the reports. all these funds are part of the eu's strategy to increase the centralisation of power to the union and to increase its integration. a federalist plan that i'm opposed to. the reports also show that the funds are guided by the essentially neoliberal europe 2020 strategy. a political line i oppose. i do not deny that there are a number of positive projects that have been launched with the support of these funds, but it is also true that the most widespread fraud and waste within the eu is done with funds from the funds. in the current economic crisis, it is claimed that the funds could help bring about change. it is an illusion. real change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we have to do more for equality, that's right, that's true. but the way forward is not legislation on quotas for women in publicly traded companies, but we will decide that at home. i have long been committed to having more women in senior positions and more female entrepreneurs. at eu level, we should keep it on the agenda, but not at the top. we're gonna put pressure on the business community, but we're not gonna jeopardize free enterprise. the way forward must be to build corporate responsibility to promote women in leadership positions. this applies to all parts of business, not just stock companies, and outside of business, not just boards. madam president, quotas at eu level will not solve the problems of gender equality. in sweden, that would mean just under 250 women, and in malta, no women at all. we must make it easier for women entrepreneurs, for example by opening up the internal market to a number of sectors, especially services in the health sector.
in writing. - i am a strong advocate of gender quotas and believe that this is an effective way to combat stereotypes, increase democracy and break the informal male quota system. i voted against the report, however, partly because the resolution addresses gender quotas on company boards as if it were the most important issue of equality, and partly because it wants eu legislation in this area. the left party is opposed to the transfer of more power to the eu and believes that the eu's neoliberal policies and what they have done for women require completely different priorities, such as a new socio-economic policy that makes the gender power structure visible in society and invests in jobs and welfare for all.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted on gender quotas in company boards, i chose to vote against. improving gender equality in sweden and the rest of europe is of paramount importance, but quotas are not the way to go. instead, i believe it is about stimulating female entrepreneurship and increasing the possibility of combining work and family life. i also believe that this is a matter of subsidiarity; it is in the individual member states that we should decide on legislation for swedish companies, not at eu level.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. agricultural aid can only be justified if it generates added value for society at large and is directed towards key actions that the market cannot cope with. eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large. we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas. the agricultural policy part dealing with rural development is the only one of the proposals that we support. we are very critical of other aspects of policy. as regards the common organization of the market in agricultural products, we would like to see a continuation of market adjustment. the regulation of european food production has a clear negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the sector. we therefore wanted to see the various protection systems and production subsidies that exist today abolished. on the one hand, they hinder the improvement of production efficiency and on the other hand, they create unfair conditions for food producers in different member states. we also want to highlight the decision not to completely abolish eu export subsidies as a major setback in the development towards a policy which is also solidarity with the world around us. we social democrats are aware that sweden and europe need an agricultural policy which is modern and green. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we therefore believe that the eu's agricultural policy will continue to be an area in need of major reform as eu cooperation moves into the next mandate. we will actively work towards that.
in writing. - i voted against all the reports. the eu's agricultural policy is probably the most expensive and dysfunctional policy in the union. it is clear that big business and a wealthy agricultural lobby have had the most influence over the seven-year plan. a report by the oecd found that eu agricultural policies had 'negative effects on rural employment'. a group of public finance experts recently reviewed the eu-supported swedish rural development programme. they stated that the annual aid of sek 5 billion has 'obscure effects and doubtful benefits to society'. the seven-year plan calls for investments in 'green solutions'. after studying the plan, the swedish nature conservation society correctly concluded that 'the alleged greening is a bad joke'. export subsidies for agricultural products sold to developing countries will continue. for the poorest farmers in the world, this means continued disaster. for example, so far tens of thousands of west african chicken farmers have lost their jobs. they cannot compete with the eu's export-supported cheap chicken pieces. the seven-year plan is an obstacle to anyone who wants a modern agricultural policy. such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south. in the long term, the only right thing to do is to renationalize agricultural policy. for these reasons i am voting against the proposed common agricultural policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. agricultural aid can only be justified if it generates added value for society at large and is directed towards key actions that the market cannot cope with. eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large. we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas. the agricultural policy part dealing with rural development is the only one of the proposals that we support. we are very critical of other aspects of policy. as regards the common organization of the market in agricultural products, we would like to see a continuation of market adjustment. the regulation of european food production has a clear negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the sector. we therefore wanted to see the various protection systems and production subsidies that exist today abolished. on the one hand, they hinder the improvement of production efficiency and on the other hand, they create unfair conditions for food producers in different member states. we also want to highlight the decision not to completely abolish eu export subsidies as a major setback in the development towards a policy which is also solidarity with the world around us. we social democrats are aware that sweden and europe need an agricultural policy which is modern and green. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we therefore believe that the eu's agricultural policy will continue to be an area in need of major reform as eu cooperation moves into the next mandate. we will actively work towards that.
in writing. - i voted against all the reports. the eu's agricultural policy is probably the most expensive and dysfunctional policy in the union. it is clear that big business and a wealthy agricultural lobby have had the most influence over the seven-year plan. a report by the oecd found that eu agricultural policies had 'negative effects on rural employment'. a group of public finance experts recently reviewed the eu-supported swedish rural development programme. they stated that the annual aid of sek 5 billion has 'obscure effects and doubtful benefits to society'. the seven-year plan calls for investments in 'green solutions'. after studying the plan, the swedish nature conservation society correctly concluded that 'the alleged greening is a bad joke'. export subsidies for agricultural products sold to developing countries will continue. for the poorest farmers in the world, this means continued disaster. for example, so far tens of thousands of west african chicken farmers have lost their jobs. they cannot compete with the eu's export-supported cheap chicken pieces. the seven-year plan is an obstacle to anyone who wants a modern agricultural policy. such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south. in the long term, the only right thing to do is to renationalize agricultural policy. for these reasons i am voting against the proposed common agricultural policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. agricultural aid can only be justified if it generates added value for society at large and is directed towards key actions that the market cannot cope with. eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large. we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas. the agricultural policy part dealing with rural development is the only one of the proposals that we support. we are very critical of other aspects of policy. as regards the common organization of the market in agricultural products, we would like to see a continuation of market adjustment. the regulation of european food production has a clear negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the sector. we therefore wanted to see the various protection systems and production subsidies that exist today abolished. on the one hand, they hinder the improvement of production efficiency and on the other hand, they create unfair conditions for food producers in different member states. we also want to highlight the decision not to completely abolish eu export subsidies as a major setback in the development towards a policy which is also solidarity with the world around us. we social democrats are aware that sweden and europe need an agricultural policy which is modern and green. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we therefore believe that the eu's agricultural policy will continue to be an area in need of major reform as eu cooperation moves into the next mandate. we will actively work towards that.
in writing. - i voted against all the reports. the eu's agricultural policy is probably the most expensive and dysfunctional policy in the union. it is clear that big business and a wealthy agricultural lobby have had the most influence over the seven-year plan. a report by the oecd found that eu agricultural policies had 'negative effects on rural employment'. a group of public finance experts recently reviewed the eu-supported swedish rural development programme. they stated that the annual aid of sek 5 billion has 'obscure effects and doubtful benefits to society'. the seven-year plan calls for investments in 'green solutions'. after studying the plan, the swedish nature conservation society correctly concluded that 'the alleged greening is a bad joke'. export subsidies for agricultural products sold to developing countries will continue. for the poorest farmers in the world, this means continued disaster. for example, so far tens of thousands of west african chicken farmers have lost their jobs. they cannot compete with the eu's export-supported cheap chicken pieces. the seven-year plan is an obstacle to anyone who wants a modern agricultural policy. such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south. in the long term, the only right thing to do is to renationalize agricultural policy. for these reasons i am voting against the proposed common agricultural policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. agricultural aid can only be justified if it generates added value for society at large and is directed towards key actions that the market cannot cope with. eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large. we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas. the agricultural policy part dealing with rural development is the only one of the proposals that we support. we are very critical of other aspects of policy. as regards the common organization of the market in agricultural products, we would like to see a continuation of market adjustment. the regulation of european food production has a clear negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the sector. we therefore wanted to see the various protection systems and production subsidies that exist today abolished. on the one hand, they hinder the improvement of production efficiency and on the other hand, they create unfair conditions for food producers in different member states. we also want to highlight the decision not to completely abolish eu export subsidies as a major setback in the development towards a policy which is also solidarity with the world around us. we social democrats are aware that sweden and europe need an agricultural policy which is modern and green. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we therefore believe that the eu's agricultural policy will continue to be an area in need of major reform as eu cooperation moves into the next mandate. we will actively work towards that.
in writing. - i voted against all the reports. the eu's agricultural policy is probably the most expensive and dysfunctional policy in the union. it is clear that big business and a wealthy agricultural lobby have had the most influence over the seven-year plan. a report by the oecd found that eu agricultural policies had 'negative effects on rural employment'. a group of public finance experts recently reviewed the eu-supported swedish rural development programme. they stated that the annual aid of sek 5 billion has 'obscure effects and doubtful benefits to society'. the seven-year plan calls for investments in 'green solutions'. after studying the plan, the swedish nature conservation society correctly concluded that 'the alleged greening is a bad joke'. export subsidies for agricultural products sold to developing countries will continue. for the poorest farmers in the world, this means continued disaster. for example, so far tens of thousands of west african chicken farmers have lost their jobs. they cannot compete with the eu's export-supported cheap chicken pieces. the seven-year plan is an obstacle to anyone who wants a modern agricultural policy. such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south. in the long term, the only right thing to do is to renationalize agricultural policy. for these reasons i am voting against the proposed common agricultural policy.
in writing. - we chose to vote against the agreement on direct payments for agricultural policy because we are very critical of the fact that the budget for direct payments is unchanged, while rural development aid, including the important environmental aid, is being reduced. we are also very critical of the fact that as much as 15% of the financial resources can be moved between pillars 2 and 1 of the cap through so-called flexibility between the pillars. in some of the member states, where direct payments are below the eu average, it will be possible to transfer as much as a quarter of rural development funding to direct payments. this is something we are very concerned about. we also object to the fact that the financial components of the cap reform were re-prioritized and decided by the eu heads of state or government behind closed doors, which meant that these components were not negotiable. this is totally unacceptable and, above all, undemocratic.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. agricultural aid can only be justified if it generates added value for society at large and is directed towards key actions that the market cannot cope with. eu agricultural policy must deliver greater benefits for the environment and society at large. we would therefore like to see more money diverted from direct aid to active measures that benefit the environment and develop rural areas. the agricultural policy part dealing with rural development is the only one of the proposals that we support. we are very critical of other aspects of policy. as regards the common organization of the market in agricultural products, we would like to see a continuation of market adjustment. the regulation of european food production has a clear negative impact on the development and competitiveness of the sector. we therefore wanted to see the various protection systems and production subsidies that exist today abolished. on the one hand, they hinder the improvement of production efficiency and on the other hand, they create unfair conditions for food producers in different member states. we also want to highlight the decision not to completely abolish eu export subsidies as a major setback in the development towards a policy which is also solidarity with the world around us. we social democrats are aware that sweden and europe need an agricultural policy which is modern and green. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. we therefore believe that the eu's agricultural policy will continue to be an area in need of major reform as eu cooperation moves into the next mandate. we will actively work towards that.
in writing. - i voted against all the reports. the eu's agricultural policy is probably the most expensive and dysfunctional policy in the union. it is clear that big business and a wealthy agricultural lobby have had the most influence over the seven-year plan. a report by the oecd found that eu agricultural policies had 'negative effects on rural employment'. a group of public finance experts recently reviewed the eu-supported swedish rural development programme. they stated that the annual aid of sek 5 billion has 'obscure effects and doubtful benefits to society'. the seven-year plan calls for investments in 'green solutions'. after studying the plan, the swedish nature conservation society correctly concluded that 'the alleged greening is a bad joke'. export subsidies for agricultural products sold to developing countries will continue. for the poorest farmers in the world, this means continued disaster. for example, so far tens of thousands of west african chicken farmers have lost their jobs. they cannot compete with the eu's export-supported cheap chicken pieces. the seven-year plan is an obstacle to anyone who wants a modern agricultural policy. such policies address vital issues such as the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal welfare and solidarity with the global south. in the long term, the only right thing to do is to renationalize agricultural policy. for these reasons i am voting against the proposed common agricultural policy.
in writing. - i voted for the report. this is to extend the increased co-financing rate for the structural and cohesion funds to the member states and regions most affected by the crisis and to extend the deadline for recovery to the end of the current mff. this is to simplify management and speed up investment. but this measure does not solve the deep crisis; change requires a new policy that puts human rights, employment and welfare at the centre. the european union must also be able to take action to combat the spread of the disease.
madam president, today, for the first time, parliament has voted on its right to decide when and where to meet. we have made an historic breakthrough and have paved the way for treaty change. i am an active member of the single seat steering group because i am committed to a more effective parliament. european citizens are asking for this. they do not understand why, or accept that, we waste eur 150 million and 19 000 tonnes of co2 every year on the travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg. the majority of this parliament has already voted in favour of savings by means of a single seat. let me emphasise that this is not a vote against france. this is not a vote against strasbourg. this is a vote in favour of a more cost-efficient parliament which decides its own calendar. we stand ready to pursue a constructive dialogue with all those who want to find viable solutions for all european institution seats. however, the deadlock must be broken and now it is time for the member states to act and take shared responsibility.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i would like to thank the commission, the other rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs and the council for the very good cooperation, as my colleagues have said in this context. from the beginning, we had a good proposal from the commission as a starting point, and thanks to a constructive dialogue, we have together developed a research and innovation programme of which we can be proud and which has the potential to strengthen europe's competitiveness through promoted research and innovation. as has been said before, we are at a time when investment in research and innovation is really needed, and those who invest in research and innovation also know that it will make them better equipped to face the future. i am particularly pleased with the clear markings that exist, such as the focus on excellence and the possibility of linking our efforts in the research programme with the structural funds. i am also pleased with the clear focus on innovation and the link between research and innovation. this is where we can see the chain of innovation from idea to market. this means that actors from academia, research institutions and industry can and need to work together more closely throughout the innovation chain. the open approach to the world that software represents and the open, strong open access policy are key ingredients in the present proposal. an important component is the so-called 'kicks' - the knowledge and innovation clusters - which play an important role in bringing together educational institutions, research centres and companies to develop and exploit the entrepreneurs of tomorrow. i am also glad that we have a clear focus on green transition and green energy and that we are also highlighting the gender aspect of the programme. we have so far under-exploited the potential and resources of women in research and innovation. i am particularly pleased, as a representative of the alde group, with the efforts being made in favour of smes, and i am also pleased with the strong support from the council on this issue. i know from my own experience that it can be difficult to change structures and so on, so i also wanted to make a comment to the commission for the future work, namely how important it is that the new unit can also work on really pursuing these possibilities for new structures. i would also like to conclude by saying that the kick-offs and the sme instrument offer an opportunity to widen the scope for more researchers, more countries and more member states to participate in the work. i also see it as an opportunity to realise the ambitions of increased and widespread participation, in particular through the kicks and the interaction with the structural funds.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when malala stood here a few hours ago and thanked for the sakharov prize, she said, among other things, that "everything starts with a book and a pen". translated into european terms, it should all start with research and innovation, because that is our book and pen. research and development is simply one of the most sensible and important things the eu does. i am therefore pleased with the horizon programme, i am pleased with the kick-offs, i am pleased with the renewable energy and energy efficiency programme which i very much hope will be implemented. i am pleased that the ageing european generation can claim the public interest over the market interest in this future area. i am also very pleased that my own proposal to include forestry policy is included and that the socialist rapporteur, teresa riera madurell, has pushed for the demands of excellence and, not least, has brought the gender dimension into both research and the research community. in conclusion, i think we should hold on to the taxpayers' money. like judith a merkies, however, i must regret that we have not been able to agree clearly on redistributing more from agricultural policy to research and development. it would have been to invest fully in the future instead of bending over backwards and trying to raise new money. redistribution is possible!
madam president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to thank both rapporteurs for a well-written and balanced report. i have tried to push this report in a direction which safeguards subsidiarity. countries like sweden have a long tradition of neutrality, and i would remind you that we outside nato have a different view on many issues. for countries like sweden, the focus is on the emerging common security policy rather than on the coordination of the countries' defence industries or the coordination of defence processes. solidarity, concern and the feeling that your security is our security must be the values around which we unite and which we have as a basis for working together for security. nevertheless, i believe that there is a benefit in limiting the eu's involvement to security guarantees and that the coordination of defence processes and equipment takes place within the framework of nato. if the development of processes and materials takes place within such a structure, we will have a better security policy at a lower cost because we can then integrate within the whole of nato instead of having one structure for the eu and another for the others.
mr president, i would like to thank you. at the moment some of our colleagues are in warsaw, but we know that expectations of that meeting are not very high. at the same time, the number of storms continues to increase, biodiversity is declining, and the oceans are becoming over-fertile. life, on the other hand, has shown success in its 20 years of existence. natura 2000 is a good example. life is a programme that seeks to bring about change at home and to contribute to increased environmental awareness. but an ambitious program needs resources. it is good that life has received more funds, i agree, but within the framework of the eu budget, life has far too few resources. if life is also to be integrated into existing funds, i see a risk that this program could be de-prioritized, but i hope i'm wrong. the eu must continue to take more responsibility for protecting biodiversity and reducing global warming.
in writing. - i have voted against these three reports. the basic line of horizon 2020 is closely linked to the europe 2020 strategy and is therefore also strongly characterised by a neoliberal mindset that puts the interests of business at the forefront. this limits the possibilities for independent and free research. it is clear that many of the corporate lobbyists had a major influence on the design. there are of course also positive elements in this package of reports, but as the main line is so neoliberal, i choose to vote no.
in writing. - life is an environment programme with a great deal of responsibility, which seeks to transform the eu into an ecologically sustainable society. with great responsibility and much to do, a budget commensurate with the responsibility is required. the gue and the environmental movement demanded 1% of the eu budget but received only a fraction of the sum. however, i chose to vote in favour of the proposal because life is a necessary and functioning eu programme to achieve sustainable development.
in writing. - i voted against the two reports by mr gahler and mr koppa. these reports are intended to increase the militarisation of the eu and also to provide support for the arms industry. it also blurs the lines between civil and military research and proposes that the social funds be used for these purposes. this is a path the eu must not take. i am also very concerned about the proposals for a permanent defence council and a more influential eda funded by the eu budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. a lot of the language feels like it's taken from orwell's 1984. for example, the csdp is a basic pillar of the european integration process. to me, that sounds like "war is peace". i hope that the council of ministers meeting in december will not go in the direction that parliament wants to take in these reports.
in writing. - i voted against the two reports by mr gahler and mr koppa. these reports are intended to increase the militarisation of the eu and also to provide support for the arms industry. it also blurs the lines between civil and military research and proposes that the social funds be used for these purposes. this is a path the eu must not take. i am also very concerned about the proposals for a permanent defence council and a more influential eda funded by the eu budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. a lot of the language feels like it's taken from orwell's 1984. for example, the csdp is a basic pillar of the european integration process. to me, that sounds like "war is peace". i hope that the council of ministers meeting in december will not go in the direction that parliament wants to take in these reports.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted today on a resolution on the commission communication on strengthening the social dimension of economic and monetary union, i chose to vote in favour. given the high unemployment rates in many eu member states, i welcome the commission's initiative to strengthen the social dimension. the free movement of workers is at the heart of this, and it must be put into practice. in this context, it is important to point out that the main responsibility for labour market and social policy lies with the individual national governments. in the resolution i therefore voted against the text on the establishment of a social pillar in economic and monetary union, as well as against the far-reaching amendments such as the establishment of a european unemployment compensation scheme.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i and many of my colleagues thought that slavery and forced labor would be abolished by now. but the model of the visa system applied in qatar shows that it continues, and worse still, we are actively contributing to it through fifa's decision to put the world cup in qatar. it is also clear that there has been massive money transfers, sometimes called bribes, and that the way the arenas are to be built exploits the system of forced labour. we cannot accept that. if qatar does not immediately promise to abolish these systems and to comply with the ilo's demands, we should demand that fifa actually change its seat. if you cannot guarantee basic human rights, you cannot organise a world cup.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. from next year, the eu will have a completely new fisheries policy. it will mean an end to overfishing, an end to the dumping of fish and much stricter conditions for eu fleets when fishing outside europe's borders in developing countries. this is a slightly revolutionary change from a much-discussed destructive fisheries policy that has given the eu a bad name around the world, and i am very proud to say that it is the european parliament, the environmental movement and also us in the green group who have been driving this reform. it shows that change is possible in other areas too, if politicians take their job seriously and voters clearly show what they expect from their elected representatives. but the fight is not over. now we must translate the good law into action. any new decision in the fisheries sector must respect the new sustainability principles. that is why i think that tomorrow parliament should vote against the fisheries agreement with morocco, which does not contain the clear clauses on respect for human rights that we have agreed. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked, in particular mrs rodust and commissioner damanaki, for a very good job.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the more than 20 years that i have been out speaking to the public on european issues, fisheries policy has been one of the most criticised areas of all. it's coming up in schools, it's coming up in workplaces, it's coming up in town meetings. but now we are finally moving towards the completion of a fundamental reform of the eu's fisheries policy, and for that i think we owe a special thanks to commissioner damanaki and our main rapporteur, mrs ulrike rodust. we have some decisions to make, including on deep sea fishing, where i hope we can stick to the basic principle of sustainability and establish a ban on the most harmful deep sea radiation. if we can put the final pieces of the puzzle together, i think we can proudly say that we have shaped a much more sustainable fisheries policy for the future, environmentally and economically. in the long term, this will also benefit the fishing industry.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i have to tell commissioner maria that she is my hero. as for the need to introduce a new fisheries reform, i have to say that this time i do not agree. i do not think that is true. this deal is not in accordance with international law. the resources in the form of fish that are off the coast of western sahara belong to the people of western sahara, and whether or not the condition is met, you have to ask them, and they have not been asked. i'm saying that we're on an incredibly dangerous path. if we review the assessment made by the united nations - the united nations which in a resolution said that western sahara is occupied and its legal service which on an earlier occasion said that the agreement is not compatible - how can we dare to criticize russia or the united states or israel or anyone else the next time they say that the un has made a wrong assessment? i say we say no to this.
madam president, tomorrow – 10 december – is actually human rights day, which was proclaimed by the un general assembly in 1950. this is quite ironical. i would like to remind colleagues that last week the pan-african parliament and the african union urged this parliament to vote ‘no’ to this agreement because it violates human rights and the self-determination of western sahara. the 18 difficult months that the commissioner was talking about: why were they so difficult? because morocco did not want to have a human rights clause in this protocol. so the wording of the human rights clause in this protocol differs from any other fisheries agreement that we have ever seen in the committee on fisheries. they did not even want to mention ‘western sahara’; the words ‘western saharaʼ are not there. so how are we going to check how this protocol is going to be executed when morocco does not even allow members of this parliament to come into the country to meet with sahrawi people and meet the human rights activists in the area? i very much urge colleagues to stand up for human rights tomorrow on human rights day and vote ‘no’ to this shameful agreement.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. we are still forced to acknowledge that the roma minority lives in a harsher and more difficult reality than all of us other eu citizens. they are europe's most vulnerable minority today, and the abuse never seems to stop. recently, this was also evident in my home country of sweden when it was revealed that the police had extensive registration of roma. the registers contained unpunished people, including deceased persons and children under two years of age. the only thing that's indecent is the first name! the national strategies adopted are not producing sufficient results and the money allocated has not reached the roma as it should. i therefore call on the commission to set up a monitoring mechanism in all member states to ensure the fundamental rights of roma. today, the eurobarometer report on the priorities of citizens was released. the survey was carried out in all the member states and the priority given to the eu and its institutions as the primary task is the safeguarding of human rights. then there is solidarity and equal rights. now is the time for all the eu institutions to deliver what the citizens are prioritizing and asking for. in today's eu, everyone should have equal opportunities for schooling, economic and social rights, free movement and access to healthcare. now we must intensify cooperation and show political will to tackle these problems. and it is now!
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in our daily work here in parliament, we are busy negotiating and adopting regulations and directives, but we sometimes forget that these are the ones that are then to be interpreted by our lawyers, judges and prosecutors and other legal experts across the eu. however, as regards legal traditions, there are great differences between our member states, and for the rules to work well it is important that those who interpret these rules are given good opportunities to get into each other's legal systems. further training of judges, prosecutors and other legal experts is therefore important and the value of these face-to-face meetings, which can lead to increased trust between those participating in these training sessions, cannot be underestimated. the work we are doing in the judicial field is about mutual recognition of legal acts and decisions, but to move forward properly we also need to increase our confidence, not only in the common european systems but also in each other's national systems. i have occasionally had the privilege of speaking at events organised by the academy of european law and of witnessing first-hand the interesting discussions that arise between experts from different countries exchanging ideas and thoughts, and last week i had the opportunity to meet young judges from across the eu who were taking part in a pilot project. you could really see the trust growing between them. i'm very happy about that. the equality, rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020 exists to promote the rights of individuals and to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens. we must never forget that the eu was created to protect the rights of individuals, not states. in the work of this new programme, it has been very important to ensure that the long-term work on violence against women and children continues to be given proper space. the programme shall continue to promote all the essential values of eu citizens and also support programmes on non-discrimination, gender equality for disabled people, data protection and the rights of both children and older people. the focus is on promoting transnational cooperation and knowledge-raising activities. i welcome these two renewed programmes for the coming years. they will lead to a more stable value base and to increased trust and respect for our differences.
in writing. - there are many beautiful phrases about fundamental civil rights in the programme. but many of the phrases in the proposed programme are pure hypocrisy in view of the policy pursued by the european commission towards the countries in the euro crisis, where people are losing the most basic rights because of austerity policies. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of gender equality and women's rights.
in writing. − the eu-ivory coast fisheries agreement is a standard agreement which is a good step towards a more sustainable fisheries policy. but the eu should basically encourage the development of its own fishing industry, through aid and other means. on this basis, i chose to abstain from voting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report to provide the opportunity for retraining and a second chance on the labour market for the workers concerned. but to really create jobs in europe, we need a new economic policy that involves green investment and public sector investment. we need an end to austerity, we need regulation of the financial markets and an organised winding-up of the euro.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the fund as a rule. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it will therefore remain for the foreseeable future. to benefit from the fund, applicants must meet very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures. all three cases at issue meet these criteria. this includes support for continuing training and support for new training, all with the aim of reintegrating workers into the labour market. europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term. but now the fund is there, and it's about making the best of the situation. in view of this, i have therefore voted in favour of the three reports in question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report to provide the opportunity for retraining and a second chance on the labour market for the workers concerned. but to really create jobs in europe, we need a new economic policy that involves green investment and public sector investment. we need an end to austerity, we need regulation of the financial markets and an organised winding-up of the euro.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report to provide the opportunity for retraining and a second chance on the labour market for the workers concerned. but to really create jobs in europe, we need a new economic policy that involves green investment and public sector investment. we need an end to austerity, we need regulation of the financial markets and an organised winding-up of the euro.
in writing. - i am not opposed to a european disaster management mechanism, where the eu can coordinate and complement the member states' actions in the field of civil protection. but since i have serious doubts about the proposed military component, i choose to abstain.
in writing. - we believe it is important that decisions on issues relating to abortion and sexual rights are taken at member state level. in the european union there are both those who share the values and views of sweden and those who have values that lead to opposite views. we are happy to express our views on free abortion and sexual rights, but we do not believe that parliament should act as a parliament above the member states. in view of this, we cannot vote against the member states deciding on the matters at issue. it is our firm opinion that it should remain so. subsidiarity must be applied here. we moderates intended to support a liberal and modern view on abortion and sexual rights in today's vote, while emphasising subsidiarity and the fact that these issues are the competence of the member states. we were going to vote for the estrelara report. we did not, however, want to vote against a resolution which emphasized that these are subsidiarity issues. we therefore refrained from giving our views on the substance of the matter, contrary to the epp group and its resolution on subsidiarity. when the resolution on subsidiarity won, the issues were never decided.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted today on the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights, i chose to support amendment no 2. the proposal stresses that the eu should respect the responsibility of the member states to decide on their health care policy. however, let me say that i firmly believe that legislation should give women the right to make the crucial decision on abortion in the first trimester of pregnancy. at the same time, it is important to emphasise that the state and the legislator cannot remain neutral in the face of the ethical dilemma that abortion undeniably entails. the report does not mention at all that the protective value of the foetus must also be taken into account at some point during pregnancy. this is surprising, and it reduces the complexity of these ethically difficult issues. every country, inside and outside the eu, has every reason to improve and strengthen gender equality and respect for the life and health of every individual. however, i believe that the issues raised in the report do not fall within the competence of the european parliament under the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats believe it is urgent to support voluntary work, especially in the field of associations. a vibrant civil society is an essential component of democracy. community life gives people a chance to meet, socialize and exchange experiences. a vibrant associative life also promotes the opportunities for people to make political demands and develop democracy. the social democrats believe that non-profit involvement is very valuable. that is why we support the report. however, it is important that voluntary work does not replace paid work. if voluntary work is to be carried out in the private or public sector, it must be done in dialogue with the social partners and with respect for any collective agreements.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the report on voluntary service in europe. we are, however, opposed to the creation of a new fund.
mr president, let us get things straight. there is an official position of the ukrainian parliament that it wants to enter into an agreement with the european union. the demonstrations in kiev are in support of that. then there has been a decision – taken not in a transparent manner, but behind the scenes – which people are demonstrating and reacting against. the demonstrators in kiev tell us a lot about what the european union is about. they are demonstrating for openness, freedom, transparency, democracy and prosperity. we need to ensure that we remain open for them, firm against the authorities and the government and firm regarding the requirements for an open society with democracy. we must insist, and we must remember that there has been a legitimate ‘yes’ to the european union and that we need to say ‘yes’ to those who want to enter into an agreement.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? i would just like to mention two points from the deve opinion. the first concerns migration policy. human rights are universal and apply to all people, including refugees. it is therefore important that the eu lives as we teach. tragedies such as that in lampedusa undermine the eu's credibility in the field of human rights when acting in international contexts. secondly, something about women's rights. human rights are universal and apply to all people, including women. despite this, the rights of women and girls are violated every day. patriarchy is like a persistent epidemic that denies women the right to a life of dignity worldwide. the eu must therefore work to ensure that the new millennium goals are clearly gender-sensitive, that they strengthen women's rights and emphasise women's sexual and reproductive rights. i therefore agree with much of what the council representative said here today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have spoken earlier today about ukraine and the situation there. if you turn on the tv, it's all about the central african republic. two different countries, to be sure, but one thing applies to the citizens of both these countries and of all other countries: that man is of inviolable value and that human rights and freedoms apply to everyone, wherever he lives. and as was said here earlier, these values are universal. there are no values and no dignity that a president can give away, nor take back, but it is about the man because he is a man. i think it is extremely important that the eu should insist on the fact that these are universal values and not start to relativise these values on the basis of language, culture, religion, tradition and whatever else we may have to count. it is satisfactory, mr president, that we now have a special representative for human rights and freedoms. i would like to see every government have a representative of this kind.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. let me begin by emphasizing that it is positive that the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is now being stepped up at a rapid pace. this work is absolutely necessary to create a level playing field and to strengthen public finances. a significant reduction in tax fraud is a crucial key to sustainably kick-starting growth and job creation in the european economy. in my view, the commission's proposal to extend the automatic exchange of information is very good. it is in line with international developments in the field, not least the fatca process. it imposes very reasonable transparency requirements on the member states. it shall streamline the exchange of data by using a uniform european model. the only changes needed are minor additions on integrity, sanctions, resources and the commission's continued role in this area. such documents were also voted on in committee. in this context, it is very surprising that a large number of members in this parliament are actually trying to water down the proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. in my view, such a weakening would be very unfortunate. the result is a less efficient system that would partly contravene the fatca model. that's not what europe needs. the only people who would benefit from this are the tax evaders. i therefore call on those members who advocate these weakening measures to reconsider their position. if parliament is to maintain its credibility in the fight against tax evasion, the line cannot be to undermine the proposals put forward.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the financial crisis has sparked outrage over lost and withheld tax revenues. taxation is no longer a national issue. in times of crisis and austerity, solidarity is required from all. we all have to pay our fair share. no one should get away with clever cross-border solutions. it is important to increase tax revenues, clear welfare, assist entrepreneurship, support jobs and growth. i therefore believe that it is right that we need a strong eu framework to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. i therefore welcome this directive and the extended directive. it is positive that the automatic exchange of information is being changed to extend income and capital to assets and capital gains on financial accounts. it is also important to implement, as a next step, the automatic exchange of information between the eu and third countries, particularly the united states. finally, the liberal group, alde, has tabled amendments, in which we refer to an opinion of the european data protection supervisor. unfortunately, the edps delivered his opinion on the same day as our vote in the committee on budgets, which is why this could not be taken into account in the report. in our amendments 27 to 31 we have therefore put forward proposals to strengthen the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data. this is in line with the edps's opinion. mr commissioner, you raised this issue in your comments, but i do think we need more protection for individuals in this text and therefore i hope that you can support it. you said that it doesn't belong here, it is not needed, but in these days when this protection is under fire and called into question i do hope that you can support these amendments.
mr president, first of all regarding growth and jobs: i think it is important to underline the fact that those member states who have applied a policy of spending have got themselves deeper into the crisis while those who have used a policy of reforms are either out of the crisis or slowly coming out of it. i think it is important for the european council to remember that. second, when we discuss the openness of the european union and the freedom to move and the freedom to work everywhere: we should not see that as a threat. that is the strength of the european union; a political strength, but also some of our fundamental values that we need to safeguard. third, discussing the most fundamental important values of democracy, stability and peace in europe, i think it is worthwhile to underline that just now, in one of the european capitals, hundreds of thousands of people are demonstrating for the european union. it is important to remember and to respect, because they see the promises of stability, rule of law, freedom, democracy and transparent societies: they are demonstrating for that. it is a formative time and we need to respond to that. they are not demonstrating against anything other than those who are trying to impose other forces, other hidden powers. parliamentary decisions had already been reached that ukraine should enter a closer agreement with the european union, but we all know that other decisions have been taken in the dark. we need to support those people and that is also the most important way of safeguarding european peace and security. if we cannot respond to that, we need to further discuss how to best develop the european union.
in writing. − we have chosen not to support the eu globalisation fund for the years 2014-2020. we believe that the existing eu instruments should be used primarily to increase the employability of those who have been notified or dismissed. it should be made clear that social policy is primarily the responsibility of the member states and that trade is good. however, europe is still in crisis and in times of crisis special measures are needed. therefore, the allocation of the egf may be eligible for a certain period in the future.
in writing. the european parliament's report on human rights in the world is important in promoting and consolidating democracy in the wider world. i voted for the report but i think it is very regrettable that the situation in eritrea is not mentioned. eritrea is a military dictatorship under president afewerki and one of the most closed countries in the world. every month, nearly 4,000 people flee the horrific situation in the country. freedom of expression is restricted and among the tens of thousands of political prisoners in the country there are 28 journalists, one of whom is eu citizen dawit isaak. the european parliament should draw attention to the state of the dictatorship in eritrea to show that we will not tolerate these violations of the fundamental rights of the people.
in writing. − the retail sector provides one in seven jobs in europe – that is nearly 30 million jobs and a true pillar of our economy. i have long fought to put the real economy at the centre of our agenda. therefore i am glad that, following my report on a more efficient and fairer retail market in europe in 2011, we are continuing to keep the retail sector high on our agenda. with the retail action plan we have a clear set of priorities to achieve a single market for retail. now it is time for national and local authorities to step up their efforts to ensure free movement and establishment across borders, facilitate equal access for smes, remove discriminatory practices and promote e-commerce. i would particularly like to commend the voluntary supply chain initiative by stakeholders to deal with unfair practices in b2b relations. i encourage all parties to pursue the constructive dialogue to bring farmersʼ associations too on board and make sure that the enforcement mechanisms provide concrete results fast.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european payment account market consisting of banks and other payment service providers has several shortcomings. the pricing is messy and it's often difficult to change banks. the most serious problem is that today there are 25 million europeans who want an account but do not have one. this creates an exclusion. it's very difficult to function in a modern society without access to an account. i am satisfied with the agreement reached by the committee on budgets. with such a framework, the shortcomings should be able to be remedied. first, the price information for payment accounts will be clearer. secondly, it will make it easier to change banks both nationally and across borders. thirdly, the right of all consumers to open and use a basic bank account should be established. banks should only be able to refuse if they suspect criminal activity. the costs of the account shall be limited to what is reasonable. overpricing which in practice excludes consumers shall not be permitted. however, there are two points on which i am not entirely satisfied with the agreement reached by the committee. the possibility for member states to exempt banks from the requirement to offer basic accounts is too great. the requirement for consumers to provide a 'genuine link' to the country where they wish to open an account may create difficulties. these two items risk making the basic account inaccessible. it's also the wrong way to go. instead, the basic account must be made as easily accessible as possible. because it requires that virtually all banks offer the basic account and that all unnecessary red tape is avoided. i hope that the problems on these points will be reduced in the vote tomorrow and that fully functional solutions can then be found in the trilogue with the council. the basic account must not be a matter of stigmatisation and charity. the account must be a real right that can be exercised without any hassle. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for a very good job. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i just have a quick question. what olle ludvigsson is looking for is in amendments 4 and 5 right? 'a member state may decide to exempt payment service providers from the obligation, in the first subparagraph, etc. etc. but there should be explicit conditions for this". i think that is exactly what you are asking for, and i think that is what is contained in amendments nos 4 and 5.
the answer ('blue card'). that may be so, but there are still some shortcomings in what we think.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we have heard, there are nearly 60 million consumers in the eu who do not have a bank account. the biggest obstacle to opening a bank account is the lack of a permanent address in the country. they can be guest workers, exchange students like my daughter in edinburgh, asylum seekers or roma seeking a better life in other eu countries. to deny them a bank account is to deny them access to our entire social and economic system. i would say that it's something of a human right in our modern society to have a bank account. the commission's proposal is therefore welcome. we have asked parliament to do so, and so it is a simple bank account, regardless of economic or social situation. but i think it is important to say that more than one bank in each country must offer these accounts, otherwise we risk stigmatising those who apply for the accounts, as my colleague olle ludvigsson said. i am sure we are in very good agreement on this, and i think that is good.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we must fight tax evasion, and the money withheld should of course be used to maintain our welfare and create jobs. this is important for the whole legitimacy and trust of the tax system. tax planning should be allowed, but aggressive tax planning where money is deliberately hidden in tax havens with complicated shell companies must be combated. i also believe that european tax legislation must be adapted to a changing world. the ccctb is one of those proposals which i think we must tackle. may i conclude by saying that if i look around here i think that i am the one that pays the highest taxes. in my country we can combine relatively high taxes with growth. but in some countries - i've visited greece for example - there are constant complaints that we can't pay these taxes because it's very complicated, and so on. here is just a humble piece of advice: you are welcome to visit my country; we know about ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the left party is opposed to the supreme court, which we see as one of the institutions that reduce democracy in the member states. the fact that each member state has a judge may be a positive thing, but in principle judges are still obliged to respect the treaties and the so-called overriding interests of the eu. for these reasons, i have abstained.
in writing. - while we support the overall objective of promoting eco-innovation, there are parts of the report that we cannot immediately endorse. this involves developing eu-level standards for green labelling of products and services, taking measures to raise consumer awareness of the importance of buying green products, developing environmental standards for public procurement and developing strategies to match the skills of the workforce with demand in the green sector.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) annual report of the european central bank for 2012 we moderates voted today in favour of the report on the annual report of the european central bank for 2012. we would like to stress, however, that we see significant problems in some of the wording of the report, as parliament makes detailed calls for the practical formulation of monetary policy, where we believe that the operational independence of the central bank must be respected. we also do not believe that gender should determine the appointment of members of the executive board of the ecb.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. we would like to stress, however, that we see significant problems in some of the wording of the report, as parliament makes detailed calls for the practical formulation of monetary policy, where we believe that the operational independence of the central bank must be respected. we also do not believe that gender should determine the appointment of members of the executive board of the ecb.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? it's not often that we can stand in this chamber and celebrate that a war has actually ended, but in 2009 the war ended. other positive developments include the creation of a commission on lessons learned and reconciliation in 2010, the ongoing demining of the area, the creation of a commission of inquiry into disappearances in august, and the holding of elections in the north of the country in september. all of this is a positive development. unfortunately, the picture is darkened when we see at the same time land grabs and conflicts, continued sexual abuse, threats to the judiciary, and in the midst of all this the defenseless victims of war who suffer particularly hard. it is therefore important that sri lanka addresses the problems now and immediately establishes a commission to ensure that those responsible for war crimes on both sides of the conflict are brought to justice and that justice is done. they need to put in place witness protection, and as navi pillay, who is due to deliver her report to the un in march, said: do this before then, or the un may be forced to set up its own commission of inquiry. we must hold those responsible for these war crimes to account. when you've been abused, it's easier to forget, forgive and move on if justice is served. i call on sri lanka: do this now! it will ease your way to a brighter future.
